ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e26	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e42	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e53	I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for its good cooperation. It is the first budgetary procedure for large parts of the committee, and it has been a positive experience for me as the new committee leader to direct this work. Knowledge is power. And knowledge is fortunately no given and constant size that is for distribution. Knowledge is actually something that becomes more of the more we share it. Therefore, knowledge policy is also the best distribution policy we can pursue. Everyone, regardless of their starting point, can acquire more knowledge without going to the expense of others. This is precisely where the challenge lies for us politicians: we should help today's children and young people to acquire sufficient knowledge and skills to cope with an open world of high change rates and demands. And not least, one of the most important social tasks of the school is to balance the social differences that exist between students. A student with a home filled with books and parents who follow up closely will always be in Norwegian school — yes, maybe even without school. But a student who is without so many books at home, and with parents who for various reasons cannot follow up, can easily become the big loser. The great reform of the previous government, the promise of knowledge, is to be introduced from the next school year. Its main objective is to ensure that students learn more and better — and to balance social differences. Today, there are major and systematic social differences between students, which are not due to their abilities and talents. That's not fair! The core of the reform is therefore clear and clear objectives of competence, better adapted training, local freedom of method and stronger requirements. The knowledge gap also clarifies the relationship between education and knowledge, inter alia. by placing greater emphasis on training in the basic skills that are the tool for all other learning. When nearly 20 pst. of the 10th grade leaving primary school with so poor literacy skills that many of them are functional illiterates — yes, many pathways to education are also closed. How to share in great things in the past and in the present without being able to read books? How to participate in the social debate without being able to write? Many students with poor reading and writing skills are struggling with further education, and they are struggling in the workplace. This is one of the reasons why the Right now will also have a reform to strengthen adult literacy skills. I am pleased that the new government signals that it will continue the promise of knowledge, and that the allocation of approx. SEK 1.6 billion for the reform is fixed. Included in this amount is a historically high commitment to empowerment for teachers and school leaders. A professionally qualified and motivated teacher who takes the role of knowledge dissemination seriously is one of the most important prerequisites for students to succeed in acquiring more knowledge and learning better. But I have to say that I am deeply concerned about many of the signals that have followed in the wake of the presentation of the budget, which help to weaken the requirements of knowledge and competence. Not demanding skills and knowledge is failing those students who need the most. It's the failure of the kids who don't have a home background that makes them win anyway. To make demands is to care! The school does not perform its work in a vacuum separated from reality. That's why it's so important from the kids already to prepare them to meet demands, equip them with knowledge and competence, arouse curiosity to learn and to teach them to use knowledge in a changing world. But that's exactly why there's also a lot of concern I notice a number of reports from the new Minister of Knowledge, among other things. to say no to a mandatory and practical second foreign language, and to introduce a study competence system for all 13-year-old education — regardless of study programme. The fact that the Minister of Knowledge is also not concerned about the level reduction and recruitment of the real subjects is, to put it mildly, alarming. At the top of this he has consistently opposed and negative to research, for example. on the importance of teacher density and group size, because it does not correspond to the political vision of the Soria Moria Declaration. Knowledge of the school depends on knowledge of the school. The question is whether the Council of State for the future will listen to professionals who may have a different opinion than himself. All that the Minister of Knowledge has contributed so far is to turn attention away from knowledge and competence. The title of the Minister of Knowledge should be mandatory, and it is high time that the Minister of Knowledge started to take an interest in knowledge — both in school and in school. There is a great deal of money spent on education in Norway, and it should be lacking. Both for municipalities, county municipalities, the state and, in particular, for my own party, education is the main priority. Paul Chaffey, head of the knowledge organization Abelia, wrote in an article of December 10 that ‘the largest oil fund in the long term has not landed. [[...]] It is they who are able to give their young population knowledge and challenges’. I fully agree with Mr. Chaffey's words. The point is that Norway's future is not at the bottom of the North Sea or the Barents Sea, but at the heads of the people who live here. It does not seem that the Minister of Knowledge has taken this inward. It simply raises awareness when a minister of knowledge is constantly promoting proposals for less knowledge and fewer demands. Many ask themselves if the Government has any plans to increase knowledge in Norwegian school at all. Based on the rhetoric of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre in the election campaign, it would be thought that the appropriations for education and research on the state budget would at least not be cut off in the draft budget of the new government. But we are in the situation that education and research are the only budget area that experiences a cut, and the cut is just over 70 million. kr in relation to the draft budget of the Bondevik Government. In my opinion, this is a strange way of marking a training bet. Hardly, it goes out of colleges and private colleges. It doesn't seem like the government thinks that anyone other than the state can help build a good, inclusive and innovative knowledge society – which, in my opinion, is quite historyless. The government also cuts in nutrient research, and it cuts big in the Research Fund. The fund will not be increased by NOK 39 billion, as proposed by the Bondevik government. Instead, it's going to increase by $14 billion, which is a cut of $25 billion. In concrete terms, this means that the researchers get close to 900 million. kr less to be researched for in 2007, unless the Government suddenly finds 900 million fresh. But research and education have already lost the budget fight against the kindergartens in this first budget submitted by the majority government. Next year, the Government will implement even more ambitious child hail lifts. Can the Minister of Knowledge guarantee that it will not go beyond education and research? The government's fundsack for education and research is less than the Bondevik government's. We in the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have therefore chosen to stand on the framework proposed by the Bondevik Government, and as our parties presented in the Financial Institution. We have not found it natural to resort to random cuts to adapt to the agreed budgetary framework, and we therefore vote against the majority framework. Nevertheless, in the setting we have selected some clear priorities. Within the framework of the original budget, we would like, among other things: consider it natural to re-prioritize 15 million. kr from grants to student homes and used it to secure the important student children's gardens, and we would follow the priorities of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left in the financial situation with a view to further strengthening education, research and innovation. The right, Christian People's Party and the left, together with the Progress Party, promote three framework-independent proposals. They deal with the country line system, the maintenance set-up in the university and higher education sectors, and we ask the Government to assess the framework for the gift-enhancing scheme for private research contributions. I take up the suggestions I referred to here. Despite the cuts in research appropriations from the Government, it is positive that it is following up on the allocations and work on the quality reform of higher education. Following the initiative of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, an overall committee asks that the Government present the announced evaluation of the Quality Reform for the Stortinget. It is important and natural that the discussion on such a major reform is included in the Storting and the Committee looks forward to the matter being discussed when the evaluation is ready. The Church is in an exciting time, and we are several who, from different points of view, are meeting the position of the Committee on the Church-State Relationship. Discussions are already under way, and the theme is engaged. Both the Church Meeting, politicians and people most of the time have discussed what it means to be an open and inclusive church, and how that consideration can also be taken into account in any reorganization of the relationship between church and state. In such a process, it is therefore strange that the ecclesiastical councils get a large and apparently unmotivated cut in the funds of the church activities in the municipalities. The right will also be in opposition to strengthening the work of a knowledge school and society, where the knowledge promise, the quality reform and an ambitious research report are at the centre. Also included in the further development of a knowledge-based society are language developments for pre-school children and adult competence policies. My main point is simple: what we do for the 6-year-olds who are going to start reading and writing training is important for how well the 19-year-olds are prepared and for how good we get researchers. Therefore, it is essential that the promise of knowledge be implemented as foreseen. The right is satisfied that the Government says it will implement the Knowledge Lift. But we don't give a blank authorisation, because the government also says it won't implement the Knowledge promise because it will weaken the requirements of foreign language, real science and study competence. We'll follow closely. We want to support the Government in everything that helps promote the students' ability to do well in life. Everything else we're against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e98	The representative Ms Eriksen has addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e103	There was a broad consensus in the previous survey on the introduction of national samples. However, the quality of the implementation was so low that the previous Minister of Education himself took the initiative to pause the implementation of the national samples in the fall just before she left. The evaluations point to understanding that parents and others have responded to the tests, and the 2005 tests were of a lower quality than in the previous year. How can the Right have credibility when they talk about knowledge, when their own performance project was of very low quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e110	I thank you for the question. This is very interesting, because the Workers' Party is also the party that has been burdened and broken with the previous government on the national tests and on all aspects of them. It is therefore quite surprising that the Labour Party joins with the other government parties in the budget setting and says that the national tests have not been carried out as foreseen. We put in place a system of national tests, which is one of the very many quality indicators in Norwegian school, just to provide more and better learning for students. So it's clear that that system needs to evolve over time, and nothing is perfect. That's why it was also that Kristin Clemet, the State Council, said that she was going to take a break in the rehearsals in 2006 to make them even better. There should only be a lack of such assessments when you see that the tool you want to use needs an improvement. It is therefore even more interesting that this government – and Anniken Huitfeldt belongs to one of the government parties – has signaled that the Schoolporten.no, which is the place where information, among other things, is. leaving the national samples and other quality indicators at risk of closure. This will not lead to knowledge of school and not knowledge of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e119	The Progress Party and the Right agree on many important values in education policy. One of the important values is that we want a diversity of schools, regardless of who owns them. We also agree on the law of free school. One of the challenges of the law is that it is still the case that students are supposed to finance part of the school themselves through a proportion, because the transfers from the state are set at 85 pst. In this vote, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal that the Government be asked to return to the Stortinget with proposals for an increase of 100 p.m., and I note that the Right does not support it. I wonder why the Right still wants it to be a specialty for students who want to use a boarding school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e126	The representative Anders Anundsen raises a very important and interesting question. There's a question that at least in our party has been the subject of long-term discussions, back and forth between a feeling that there should be a certain proportion of it just to strengthen the private entry and initiative, and the fact that one is fully funded by the state, which can lead to the school losing a lot of its own character. It's a discussion that's alive in the party, and it's a discussion I'm willing to take with Anders Anundsen and the Advance Party anytime, but maybe not in response to a one-minute reply. But I think it also raises another question that is important to think about, especially in these days. It is that very many of the schools that are currently operating and want to start up as alternatives to public schools are now at risk of being completely economically strangled and losing their recognition, based on a justification that is purely political and not professional. It worries me much more today than if the funding for fresh oils is 85 or 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e133	When higher education was opened up to young people from the working class, the right-hand side claimed that this would mean a lack of knowledge. When we introduced a scheme five to six years ago to start higher education on the basis of real skills, the Right spoke out and said that the medical study was going to be flooded by plumbers. What I'm suggesting, and what we've suggested before, is that a degree letter should be able to provide the basis for admission to higher education. What is so wrong with young people who choose an education and who, through that education, acknowledge that they want to go further, that they want to take higher education, are allowed to do so? Why should the door of higher education be closed for students who have chosen a practical education initially? The experience from the scheme, for those who have tried out the scheme, shows that these students succeed at least as well as other students. So my challenge to the Right is, why is it so wrong that one can choose different paths to study competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e142	With all possible respect for my excellent committee colleague Rolf Rekovam, I do not think he could have attended the hour in the discussion that has taken place. So there are a lot of roads to higher education in Norway. You can choose when you want to go to higher education, you can take a theoretical year, you can get a real competence assessment, and you have the opportunity to go on some particular studies, for example. from an electronic letter to an engineering study, which is specially adapted to the fact that those who come there do not have general study competence. But this must not remove the focus from what is the main challenge: that very many students who start higher education are struggling with basic skills. They have too bad intelligence. Many universities and colleges use most of the time to say the first year to refresh especially mathematics that students should have learned in higher education. We must not underestimate that certain theoretical knowledge is required in order to take a higher academic course. The new government believes that this is a requirement that should not be imposed at all. You just have to let everyone in and then kick them out again after a year or two, when it turns out this isn't working. Practically everyone who has commented on the Government's proposal to introduce a study competence system to all has expressed a negative opinion. There's a reason for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e155	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e159	The majority government has major ambitions in knowledge policy. It's both about giving those who fall outside, better assumptions and giving those who have a lot of knowledge, better conditions. The talents need to evolve more. But those who lose the most of that school doesn't manage to communicate knowledge well enough are the weakest. Because they don't have the same opportunities to regain lost knowledge later in life. We believe in the primary school as a glue in the Norwegian community. The fact that the director's son and factory worker's daughter sit side by side in the classroom is of great value to us understanding each other. It's diversity. Countries that have many private schools also have major social differences. We keep our promises when it comes to private schools. We are now working on a new law and therefore invite the whole Stortinget to discuss this, so that the new law stays in place for many years. When the previous Minister of Education took over, her message was clear: Investigate the old Right proposal from 1997 to cut a school year! A more effective childhood would obviously save money. Consider the level decrease it would have led to if this had been adopted. Young people were to learn more when they were younger, in a shorter time. Our finance minister doesn't have the spider and savings school as a starting point. Our Kristin's message to School Norway is that now the bottom is reached. Now the arrows have to point up. In my own municipality Ullensaker has the crowns per. students dropped in the last few years. With the Bondevik government's proposal for a government budget, the school in this and other municipalities would now have to cut in the autumn. In Nannestad, they are now free to close the pool, thanks to the budget of the majority government. Now local politicians from all parties are proud to say that they can increase school budgets – not enough, but something. The arrows point up anyway and not down, as they did before – thanks to the majority government. The political basis of the previous Minister of Education was that there is no link between money and quality. I don't think any of the parents who protest against low school budgets agree. The previous government wrote to Stortinget that the students are the least satisfied with, is the indoor climate. The plural government is doing something about it. We know that there is a need for money for refurbishment. This is why we are focusing on refurbishment and on the working environment for students. The previous government’s commitment to knowledge did not produce good enough results. The reading understanding among 7th-classes got worse at the end of the period, reported the Right-dominant government to the Stortinget just before it left. The difference is that the new government knows that increasing knowledge among children and young people has a price tag. Our new Minister of Knowledge knows that quality is not achieved by spinning and saving, because quality costs. In the knowledge promise, the Stortinget has been concerned with clear objectives for learning, and that the teachers themselves should decide which learning methods they should be allowed to use. This was not followed up by the previous government. In proposals for a curriculum for history, Clmet’s education directorate suggested that high school students should be able to choose whether to learn about World War II or not – i.e. unclear skills goals – while everyone, yes, should have a digital presentation on Viking times, i.e. method enforcement. Teachers in the classroom talked about 40 powerpoint presentations about the Viking Age. The new government is committed to clear skills objectives because we know that a high degree of decentralisation increased the zeal of the previous government after forms and controls. We want parents to be sure that students learn what to do, no matter what school they go to. Therefore, we need strong national knowledge objectives. The teachers have become the target of too much that is wrong in our society. The new government will cooperate with the teachers. The students must have respect for the teacher. But then, as politicians, we must also have respect for the work that teachers do. In the past, parents were afraid that the children were not good enough for the school. Now many parents are afraid that school is not good enough for their children. Parents need to be more responsible for children and young people getting more respect for school. The majority government will therefore cooperate with parents, teachers and students, not just because they are users, but because they have the right to be heard. The previous government talked about quality and knowledge, but it was amazing how selective they were in picking out research results that fit into what they had already decided on by politics. The majority government will give professional advice priority. More and more people are taking higher education. It's a quality in our society. We will provide more opportunities for higher education because more knowledge and more education benefit the community. We have agreed with the Quality Reform in Higher Education. But we must ensure that the reform leads to an increase in quality, not just that everyone adapts to new quality criteria. We're engaged in a good student funding, because equal rights to education depend on this. Most of us agree that Norwegian research should be in the top international level in selected areas. Research plays an increasingly important role. Both business and the public sector need increased knowledge. We are increasing the research effort in this budget. The previous government did not increase this effort very much while they themselves ruled. But when they knew they were going off, they proposed to increase it more than they themselves had promised. The level they themselves thought was irresponsible in ours, somehow became very logical the day they knew they would go off. There is no doubt that research will increase with the new government. What we do when we rule, counts more than touching concern among those who go off. We're going to increase research efforts through proper proposals and thorough follow-up. Research deserves serious treatment, and we will contribute to that. Many church buildings throughout the country have fallen due to poor municipal economy in recent years. Therefore, those who are concerned with the Church should be pleased with the increase to the municipalities. According to our country, the Oslo churches with the previous government budget had to cut by 16 million. kr. That would be dramatic. Now they can increase by 2 million. kr. After Christmas we get the conclusions of the Church – State Committee. We will contribute to an open discussion and have no established positions. We want the different points of view to come up. There are a lot of attitudes and they have to come forward. Now the free play of the forces must be replaced by political control," said Jens Hunseid of the Bond Party in 1935, as his party last time entered into formalised cooperation with the Workers' Party. The policy of the previous government has brought the Senterpartiet, SV and Arbeiderpartiet together. School policy the previous government led was dramatic for School-Norway. Now we need more political will to assert ourselves as a knowledge nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e210	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e213	The representative Huitfeldt talked about smoothing differences. In the budgetary procedure, the Progress Party has called for funding to be ensured for all specialised school facilities that are – and will be – approved by NOKUT. The working party, SV and the Centre have opposed this. Is it because the government parties will maintain the distribution of bias that exists today, how do women-dominated educations only receive half of the man-dominated education?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e218	There is no doubt that the Workers' Party has been a defender of the vocational schools for several years, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. There has been a way we can raise knowledge too many in the professions in question. Now the Trade Union and many others have made proposals that will create a greater degree of equality between vocational schools regardless of whether they are women-dominated or man-dominated. We want a thorough treatment of this. But if it were the case that the representative of the Progress Party was so concerned with the women's dominated professions, he could have shown it in cooperation with the government parties when they had influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e225	First, I have to correct an obvious misunderstanding. It is not Kristin Clement who has proposed the new curriculum in history. That's what the Education Directorate has done. It happens regardless of who is in political leadership. Anniken Huitfeldt mentioned an interesting point. She thought that the director's son and the worker's daughter had to sit side by side at school, and that's important. The whole point is that if the worker's daughter wants to be a director, she must have the opportunity. That's where the new government differs from us in its knowledge. We have put forward a major reform, the promise of knowledge, which will be introduced from the next school year. That the results have not been achieved until the reform has been implemented, I think it is quite obvious. In addition – the majority government will make professional advice go ahead, I hear Anniken Huitfeldt say. Then it is quite strange that the new government does not listen to either the Central Statistical Office or German researchers in the discussion of teacher density and group size. [[The President clubs.]] Will the new government now listen to the technical advice and reconsider its discussions that are largely just about more teachers and more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e234	The President will remind you that the time for replication is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e237	The logic of the right-hand side is that if the factory daughter is to be the director, she has to go to private school. We have a completely different policy, that everyone should have equal opportunities in the same school. More money and increased strengthening of public schools will provide all opportunities. Countries with high levels of private schools also have greater social differences. We don't intend to pick up ideas from the countries that have more private schools. We intend to defend the public common school. It is worrying that the previous government had such a poor grip on them as designed the promise of knowledge. There is evidence of poor governance of the knowledge policy in history and in many other subjects. The curriculum is and will be the responsibility of the previous government. We're going to fix this through clear skills goals, but the footwork of the previous government, the basic work, is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e246	The representative Huitfeldt said a lot about investing in knowledge and not least research. I want to get a hold of an element of this. In the context of the Education Culture Communication, the Workers' Party, together with us who are now in opposition, stood in favour of mandatory second foreign language at the youth stage. Now the government has turned this question upside down. I have to ask Huitfeldt the representative what is the reason for that. Are there any changes to the terms? Is it not the case that we continue to cooperate and interact more and more with other countries, and that there are greater and greater demands for good knowledge in several languages in the information society? What is the reason why the Workers' Party has now changed its vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e255	The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party have a better proposal for the second foreign language than what we each promoted in this Chamber in ours. We now have a proposal that combines stricter requirements for those who need to take the second foreign language, but we also say that those who do not have the prerequisites should instead receive reinforcement in English. In this way, we increase the knowledge requirements for everyone and also make sure that those with a weaker theoretical starting point learn better English. It surprises me that the right-hand side, which is talking about adapted training, on this issue, has clock faith in the equals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e262	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e265	First, a visit to the exchange of lines between the representative Eriksen and the representative Huitfeldt, where the latter used the director's son and the worker's daughter as an example. The challenge of the new government's policy is that the parent of the director's son can still purchase private education for his child, but the worker's daughter is asked to have the same opportunity. That's why this law on high school has been so important — in order to create equal opportunities for those who go to Norwegian school. I'm sorry the government didn't follow it up. There has been a notable change in Norwegian education policy since the elections. We have witnessed an educational council that has thought that the youngest children are best off in kindergarten and not with their parents. He's been trying to ban prayer in Norwegian school. He will be required to remove second foreign languages from primary education, and he will give everyone with secondary education the right to take place at universities. Someone will probably claim that this is a step in the right direction. This may be provided that the right direction is more public governance and control, lower professional competence in initial training and a significant reduction in the level of competence requirements at university and university level. I look forward to the knowledge minister being taken up by the actions in Norwegian school that promote knowledge. So far, the efforts of the Council of State have been in the name of the Minister of Knowledge Reduction. I dare not give the Council of State character, for he will remove them as well. Norway is fighting the rest of the world to become a leading knowledge nation in the world. Compared to the best countries of South-East Asia, eight grades in Norway are three years behind in knowledge of mathematics and natural sciences. I am pleased to hear if the concrete measures the Council of State wants to take to meet this challenge. The Party's education policy focuses on knowledge, freedom of choice and individual training. We want direct funding for initial training through a single-cost funding scheme, so that local politicians cannot reduce the use of funds for school. In this way, we will ensure that students are given real freedom of choice, and that students, regardless of the municipality of residence, are given an equally good school offer. However, we recognize that we do not have a majority for that in this Chamber yet. That's one of the reasons why we're doing something else. We have become the only party that follows the promise of the election campaign. While all the other parties are talking about school bets, the Progress Party is the only party that grants money directly to the schools. All of the others grant funds to the municipalities, and then it will be up to each municipality to decide whether it is most important that the children receive good training or whether the cultural house should be built or renovated. The reason for the government is that they believe that the wit is fairly equally distributed, as state councils have said, between this hall and the local government. That might be right. However, experience shows that the balances and priorities of municipal politicians are different in many municipalities than they have been in this room. That's why the Progress Party wants to earmark 600 million. kr directly to primary schools and 200 million. kr for secondary education in the budget of the Municipal Committee. This is absolutely necessary in order for the school bet to be real and not just talk about an election campaign. I therefore allow myself to challenge the Government on this. I assume that the Government is now going through carefully the use of the 5.7 billion kroner that the local government receives, to ensure that the money and the corresponding DKK in the future will be spent in the municipalities on the most important tasks, namely school and care and care. The point of progress is that adapted training must be something real and not just a speech. For this reason, the Progress Party proposes to increase the state effort for the organisation of pupils with adaptation problems and specific challenges, such as the organisation of deaf and visually impaired pupils, by 30 million. kr. It is important for a successful education system that we have engaged parents who will and can participate in school and care for the interests of their children. For this reason, the Progress Party has also supported in this budget the Parental Committee for Primary Schools with additional budgetary resources. We have also noticed that there has been a quite new association of parents with children in kindergarten and primary school. Active Parents are a voluntary organisation that helps to inform parents about rights and opportunities within the education system. Then it is a little strange that our remark that the Government should consider whether it might be relevant – I repeat it, because it is a rather vague wording: that the Government should consider whether it might be appropriate – to provide direct government financial support to Active Parents, has not received any support in the Committee. This is strange, because all lots have underlined the value of having just active parents. Yesterday some of us were greeted by the government's new hospitality and respect for the opposition. Not only did the State Council of Djupedal launch the shortcut to bypassing a proper legislative process, but he closed two opposition politicians out of the press conference where the shortcut was to be presented. There is some doubt about how seriously we are going to take Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's repeated assurances in this Chamber that his government will not become arrogant. I mention this because the law council Djupedal so elegantly wants to put aside, is the law of free school. In the budget, the Government assumes that they do not require any legislative change in order to reduce the transfer to the high schools by 380 million. Total kr. You can get in doubt by less. The government's fight against a school system that gives individual students the freedom of choice and the ability to decide for themselves their own day-to-day school, including through the choice of school type, is very clearly also evident in the draft budget. The Progress Party believes that a diversity of schools is important and will treat public owned schools in a non-discriminatory manner with fresh schools. For us, quality is the most important thing, not who owns and runs the schools. That's why we're increasing the amount of funding for the primary schools in our alternative budget by 535 million. kr while we propose that the Government come back with a case, where the grant to the boarding schools is proposed to increase to 100 pst. We also want to reintroduce the capital grant scheme proposed by the Bondevik II Government. Unfortunately, none of these proposals will be adopted today, but perhaps in a few years' time. The government's budget will reinforce discrimination between public and private universities. The Progress Party will work to eliminate this discrimination in the long term and to put budgetary resources into our alternative budget to achieve it. Research policy reflects society’s willingness to develop and harness new knowledge. Research and research-based knowledge characterises development and will become increasingly important in the coming years. «As well as the business community that the public sector needs to know more. Therefore, we must have ambitious targets for Norwegian research efforts in the coming years." Someone in the hall might make sense? It's a direct quote from the fairy tale statement of Soria Moria. I mention this, because there were many who were delighted when the Bondevik II government agreed to increase the stable fund-funded research effort from 2007 by building up the Research Fund. In spite of many well-meaning words, both in the election campaign and in the fairy tale statement by Soria Moria, the Stoltenberg government kiest so it really monstroses in the Research Fund in relation to the Bondevik II government's proposal. DKK 25 billion reduces the fund compared to the previous government proposal. This means a reduction in research funding from 2007 of nearly 900 million. kr annually, slightly depending on the type of interest rate applied. Where were the ambitious goals actually dated and solemnly signed a few months ago? That's perhaps what's going to be the end of this government, that it promises so much, but it fulfills so modestly. I also allow myself to include the minority proposals of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e309	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e314	I am surprised that the Progress Party fails to present its cut-off proposal in this budget, which will result in a dramatic change in Norwegian school. They're taking up Kristin Clemets and the right-hand side's old proposal to cut one school year. This will obviously lead to a dramatic reduction in knowledge among Norwegian children and adolescents. The 6-year-olds will learn what the 7-year-olds can do today. You have to start high school when you're 14-15 and you're done when you're 17. More effective childhood should provide money in the box of the Progress Party. This will obviously not contribute to more knowledge in school, but less.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e319	I am surprised that the representative Huitfeldt is amazed, because if the representative had read for example. The PISA study and the TIMMS study, she would have recorded that despite a longer learning period, the level of knowledge of students has been reduced. In that case, the reasoning to the representative Huitfeldt was not at all appropriate. One of the reasons why the Progress Party allows itself to promote the proposal is that we want to increase the dissemination of knowledge at the time when the students are in school. It is the policy of the Progress Party, not that the children should be at school to be there, but that they should get something left to be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e324	The Progress Party is too diverse and for a school to provide real freedom of choice and to focus more on quality and knowledge. We have therefore been able to agree a lot in the setting that is being dealt with today. However, when you come down to concrete proposals for funding, the Progress Party in some areas makes so much redeployment and so much cuts that it would really have created drama if it had been tried to do so. This applies, inter alia, to: Sami and treatment of language teaching. Here, Norway has obligations to minorities that cannot be swept aside. Why does the Progress Party choose to highlight this so strongly in its budget proposal, when it is aware that the integration and care of minority interests is important for how Norway is perceived as a country to live in and come to?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e331	The Party shall cut the appropriations for, inter alia, the specific measures for: the Sami population. The reason for that is because we think we're all the same. We all have equal rights and equal opportunities, regardless of gender, race, religion and ethnic origin. The Progress Party also believes that it should reflect in the education system. Therefore, we consider it unfortunate to have a number of special schemes and training courses for the Sami minority population.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e336	Art and culture create identity and make us feel belonging. Art and culture also make us ask questions about our culture, and that challenges us. It makes us develop further. It's creative, and it's creative. The most growing industry in Norway is the cultural industry. The Progress Party proposes to remove what has been proposed by the Government in relation to the training of art in North Norway, which is the only part of the country that does not have a higher level of art education. But it's not just in the field of art education in North Norway you cut. The Progress Party proposes to eliminate higher art education at all our institutions in Norway. My question to the Progress Party is: How can this be understood? Can it be seen in a way other than that this is an anti-business proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e345	There will be some cunning lines again and again when you haven't seen the whole of a budget line. This is one of them. The Progress Party shall have, inter alia: was ordered that we should have equal treatment of the Academy of Performing Arts in Eastfold, so the picture the representative wants to draw is probably not quite correct. What is a better question in my opinion is: Why did the government originally want to put down the only nautical education we have in Norway, which is also at the same university, in Tromsø? Now the committee turned around in the last minute, but the government proposal was that it should be dropped. A question that I think is much more timely is why you have to put down the kind of vocational education that is incredibly important for the development of nutrition, not whether you're going to have an art college and an art line in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e354	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e357	From 2001 to 2005, the Bondevik government established more than 300 new prison sites in Norway without the provision of equivalent training funds in the field of criminal services. The new majority government, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre have increased the budget for prison training by 20 million. NOK to cover the aftermath left behind by the right-hand side. We've also allocated 1.3 million. kr to new places. Training is one of the most important ways of preventing crime. It is a necessary instrument for rehabilitation and building and creating a safer society. Many of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons have holes in many of the basic skills needed to master life outside the walls. It is therefore important, correct and necessary to give priority to training in criminal matters. Increased appropriations for prison training show a shift in lines and illustrate a new policy direction. The majority government is committed to education and competence, and education and competence permeate the policy of the new government in all fields. Before the Swedish government joined, we expressed our clear opinion: the bottom has been reached. From now on, the arrow will point upwards. There must be a new government to bet on children and young people for students. It has to be noted that there are differences. Knowledge costs, and we are willing to pay for it. Knowledge and training are one of the main areas of activity of the new government, from kindergarten to higher education and research. I'm glad that the majority government has reduced the maximum price and prioritised the expansion of kindergartens high. The kindergarten area has now been included in the Ministry of Knowledge in order to ensure the full and coherence of training provision. Kindergartens will continue to be a voluntary part of the education cycle, but this strong commitment shows that the Government prioritises and gives young children’s parents freedom and choice. The floor's been reached. The arrow should point upwards. The government proposes to increase the free revenues of municipalities by DKK 5.7 billion compared to 2005. About 30 pst. of the municipalities' money goes to school today. An increase of NOK 5.7 billion to the municipalities thus gives them the opportunity of a completely different investment in primary school. It will be noted by the number of teachers, the number of hours, equipment and school books in school, and probably the cost of staying in the school leisure system will be reduced. The new majority of the Grand Duchy also asks in the position of the Government to come back in an appropriate way with proposals to develop the quality of the school leisure system, measures for closer cooperation between school and school leisure schemes, and how to facilitate the provision of facilities for students with disabilities. SV is pleased that the government is putting the students in the center, too many students feel that the physical and mental school environment is not as it should be. The size has adopted Section 9a of the Training Act, which aims to ensure that each school student is entitled to a school environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. It has been working actively against bullying in school in recent years, and this government is going to continue to work on it. This government should also work against sexual harassment and gender-related bullying in school. The physical working environment for pupils and teachers needs to improve. The Government therefore proposes to extend the interest compensation scheme for investments in schools by DKK 1 billion. The total investment framework is after this 13 billion kroner. This is an increased bet that SV appreciates. SV wants a strong commitment to the public general school. Everyone shall have equal rights to education and there shall be a strong, diverse public common school with room for all. There shall be a demanding knowledge school, in which each student shall be given appropriate training, the training they need and the training they need. It shall ensure access to all education and knowledge, irrespective of background. The most important way to balance differences and provide equal opportunities is to invest in public schools. We have major challenges in school. We have a lot of knowledge, and we know about the state of the school and the challenges we're facing. There are great differences between school students, and it is particularly worrying that the school is cumulating the great social differences we see in society. If you lose in a school system, the school continues this. I'm glad the new government is taking this on board. The government also proposes not to hold national tests in the spring of 2006. The appropriations have therefore been reduced by 24 million. kr. The evaluation that has been carried out has been clear and clear: it has cost more than it has tasted. National tests have not been a good tool to improve school quality. There has not been a tool for teachers to ensure that students achieve a good competence, but there has been a good instrument for ranking in school. SV wants an inclusive school and is therefore pleased that the Government will bring down a sample to assess the school purpose paragraph. The government has strongly signalled bets in general public schools, from primary schools to higher education. The Government is therefore also required to review the Law on Free Schools, both the grant scheme, the tightening-up and the dissemination of independent schools. SV is pleased that the Government has liquidated the grant for the capital costs of the independent schools of 52,6 million. DKr., and that private schools have also been reduced by 335 million. kr. This is because we don't think growth within the private schools is going to be that big. SV is also very pleased that the Government has now introduced temporary stoppages in the establishment of private schools. This involves both stopping the processing of applications available and stopping the establishment of those who have been admitted to schools but who have not started up. A high level of education is important and right for development and value creation across our country. The quality reform in higher education shall be implemented. It is important to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to take higher education. The majority government will continue to work to ensure both a good student funding and a better way, so that everyone can be included in this. In order to avoid price increases or poor offers in student children’s gardens, the government has increased the grant to the student children’s gardens by 10 million. kr. Student kindergartens have been an important tool to ensure that everyone is given the opportunity to take higher education, and this has been an important and correct tool that we will continue to use. At the same time, we point to an increased framework for municipalities, while also increasing appropriations in general for the kindergarten sector, and that municipalities should also make a greater commitment to follow-up to the student kindergartens. Decentralized education has been an important and appropriate instrument to use. It has given results, it has given good results. We know that this has led to the spread of housing and increased competence among those who have lived in the districts. We are very pleased that the Government has increased the funds for decentralised education. This will give, and give, important ring-effects. Art and culture create identity and belonging and also ask us questions about our identity, our culture. SV is very pleased that the government has now established visual art education in North Norway. These are important means, and it looks like what happened after that grant came to North Norway, in relation to the guy you have. It's a new expansion, a new majority, a new government, which shows that you want to bet on education and culture, from kindergarten to higher education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e399	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e402	In my opinion, Lena Jensen and SV have little confidence that people can make their own choices. And this fear of freshness in competition with the public school may well make a kicking away the legs during all the attempts at diversity. Could it be that one recognizes that the existing public school does not hold out and will lose in the fight for the students? Does Lena Jensen therefore see that the very freedom of choice funded by the public ensures that the diversity and peculiarity of education will increase the knowledge and the ability of individual students, regardless of their wallet, to receive education according to their ability and not least their desire?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e408	The new majority government has clearly signalled and clearly stated that they want to invest in the public high school. This is where our children meet, this is where my daughter can meet Jasmine and become friends with her, that's where you develop tolerance and security. If there's something that this society, which is becoming more and more complex, needs, then there's a common meeting place where everyone can meet. This is the only way, the best way, we can create security and tolerance in this society. SV is not afraid of private schools. SV wants a new private school law and is pleased that the government has now signaled that a new private school law is being introduced. We look forward to it, and it will receive a thorough treatment in Stortinget. Now SV is happy to have put a temporary stop to the establishment of new private schools. If the applications were continued, and the applications that had been approved would have doubled the number of private schools, and this would have meant that very many district schools had to be closed down.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e415	I hear several of the representatives from the government parties talk very much about the government increasing the research effort. But the government inherits the research effort from the previous government. So at the top of it all, it does a big cut in the research fund. And as it was the most, SV could not even comply with its own proposals from the research message. I thought that's what the party wanted in government to do. I quote: ‘The government is asking the Government in the annual budgets to make proposals for the establishment of the research fund so that on 1 January each year the fund has such a capital base: 2006: SEK 70 billion, 2007: DKK 90 billion, 2008: DKK 100 billion.’ We submitted proposals for a research fund of 75 billion kroner on 1.1.2006. So SV fights back and does a cut in that allocation when they come into government. This is not to bet on research.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e425	SV is involved in research, and has been involved in research all along. The proposal now promoted by the majority government does not primarily mean a reduction in funds for research purposes in 2006. The proposed allocation from the Government is the first step in the process of stepping up to the goal we have up to 2010. The Government believes that the stepping-up of research efforts should take place through a combination of provisions for the research fund and an ordinary allocation of government budgets. We will, of course, come back to the next budget for the ordinary appropriations for the state budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e430	The fight for research is an objective of SV's struggle to prioritise its own ambitions. The lot goes from opposition to position – they won a choice. But then one suddenly discovers that the money for all good ends is to be chosen, and at the point where one is then to be tested on something that goes far away from all populist wins, namely research efforts in research funds, one loses it. You lose it, then you lose it, and the clear truth of this is that you can't choose. You want everything well, and in that situation, it's not the populist that loses. SV is a batch that, for example, tries to fight in relation to the environment for something that is long-term. Research could do the same. And anyone with a minimum insight into the Norwegian state budget knows that it's worth $900 million. kr at a budgetary conference is no joke. What that means in clear terms is that SV has lost in battle with its own ambitions. Research has lost in relation to bricks and bread.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e437	The representative is right in one thing, and that's that research is no joke. Research is important. So the representative says that bread has won, but we have actually not implemented any proposal that school food should be introduced to the Norwegian school. Research is important, and we're going to follow up on the next budgets. This government has decided that we should have two ways of funding research: both through the ordinary appropriations and through the Research Fund. We can promise that we will work to get the most funding for research. For research is important, and this government has put research on the agenda. I also stress that the current draft budget does not reduce the funds for research efforts in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e444	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e447	During the previous ageing period, significant measures were put in place to improve the skills of Norwegian children. International studies have shown that our children have too poor skills, especially in reading and billing. That is why it was essential for the previous government to reverse an unfortunate development and to get an impact on a knowledge gap in the school. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the new government will continue this promise of knowledge, although we have also registered that the Council of State will weaken the reform by removing important elements such as mandatory second language foreign language and study competence requirements. Through the Knowledge Lift, launched next year, there will be better curricula with clearer objectives. There will be greater local freedom of action and more adapted training. Efforts must be made to enhance the skills of teachers. The latter is crucial because it is important to have committed and competent teachers to succeed. This focus on ensuring that Norwegian students have basic skills is correct and important. At the same time, from the Christian People's Party, it has been to do all the time to stress that the school should give more than education. It also has to give formation. Rolf Jacobsen says so in the poem «Ask again»: ‘The number line laughs at us and will explain everything. It has jaws of iron and teeth It's like it's clinking. We ask and we ask and the figures correspond but not about the violins or about the happiness between two arms. Then it coughs on the screen: – unclear question. Ask again.’ The Christian People's Party will warn against placing unilateral emphasis on what can easily be measured by simple numbers. As we focus on basic skills, we must not lose sight of what cannot be measured, but which are at least equally important. We must not forget that the school as an institution has a central role as a cultural and valuer. It is more important than ever to give children, young people and adults a value perspective in addition to material and narrowly beneficial. In the process of making the school even better, the basic skills must not overshadow the value and cultural dimension. The level of knowledge is based on both elements: the element of formation in the general curriculum, the element of education in the other. The Christian People's Party believes that only by emphasising them both will achieve the goal of the world's best school. The Christian People's Party will work towards the most comprehensive approach to learning. In this context, for example, we see as a lack that cultural schools are not defined as part of public education. Music and culture schools, together with the cultural school system and the arts disciplines, contribute unequivocally to strengthening the educational element. The aim must therefore be to strengthen the offer and to facilitate the possibility for as many students as possible to go there. I have to admit that it was with some tension we looked forward to the additional proposition from the new government regarding the Ministry of Knowledge. Unfortunately, I have to say that we were more disappointed than I thought was possible. Here the government had the opportunity to ride on a wave of optimism that was about to be created in this field. Instead, one made sure to shame the whole thing out of doing a series of unfortunate cuts that turn up on the positive picture. One area where this is very conspicuous is research, which other speakers have also been involved in. In 1999, the then State Council, Jon Lilletun, presented a research report that represented a time gap in Norwegian research policy and set ambitious targets for its efforts. After that, we have more indications of increased quality in research, and resources have increased. Last spring, Stortinget saw a new paper on research. It was a good follow-up and set ambitious targets for where we want Norwegian research efforts to lie. Norway has the prerequisites for becoming a leading research nation. Now it's important that we still stand together and stick to the ambition to increase the total research effort to 3 pst. GDP. On this basis, it is therefore very unfortunate that the new government found that it would reduce the proposed increase of the Research Fund by a total of DKK 25 billion. Of course, it is possible to correct this with annual appropriations directly above the State budget, but all experience suggests that it may be difficult to obtain within an otherwise tight budgetary framework. It was to ensure predictability in this process that the Stortinget set up the Research Fund. In recent times, there has been a lack of real science competence throughout the education system. It is important that we take the force to correct this. In particular: the research communication was also given clear signals of increased commitment to technology and science. One point I mention in this connection is that the result-based education funding that is established has not given a distribution effect in terms of research resources in relation to the actual publication by some institutions. NTNU is one of those who have come out badly for that reason. There is reason to hope that the forthcoming evaluation will help to correct this bias. However, the area next to the research that gets to experience the greatest pain in terms of cut is the independent schools. The reduction in the estimate appropriations for independent schools is officially justified by reduced student numbers. This, of course, is linked to yesterday's announcement by the State Council of Djupedal of the introduction of an emergency regime to stop the growth of the number of fresh oils. According to the Minister of Education, it may seem that there is a rise in the number of schools in health care. Perhaps the Minister of Education rather than say stop should cost him a break of thought and ask why there is such an interest in starting fresh schools in Norway? Does not the Government realize that it can do itself a bear service by feeding the independent schools of starvation? However, the most striking cuts are the cuts in appropriations for private colleges. They not only represent an attack on many valuable educational institutions but are also incomprehensible from an educational policy perspective. Not only do these schools represent a valuable complement to public school provision, but they also contribute to the education of vital occupational groups that are sought out by society. This applies to teachers as well as pre-school teachers, nurses and deacons. On the question of why they have chosen to cut the subsidy, the Council of State has replied that there are grounds for policy assessments. Especially hard hit is the Norwegian Academy of Teachers School in Bergen, a reputable institution, where the majority of the committee, consisting of the red-green parties, increases the overtime cut from the Government to a total of 3.5 million. kr. This cut in the basic grant will reduce the possibilities for the school to meet the requirements of professional content in teacher training at all. At a time when it is important to strengthen teacher training, this gives a completely wrong signal. We have also noticed that the Education Association has gone out and complained about the cuts in the transfers to the Norwegian Teacher Academy. All schools need to think long-term in their efforts. It also applies to private colleges. Now there is uncertainty as to whether the Government is counting on these higher education institutions at all in the overall university and higher education policy. The answer to this will be through the annual transfers of resources, including research resources. When the government wants to channel a large number of doctoral positions into the university and higher education sectors, the Christian People's Party, together with the other opposition parties, believes that it will be an important test if the private universities are also awarded some of these. There could also be a basis for a question to the Council of State about this, if you want to give doctoral students to the private universities as well. So over to the church budget: the government has also gone to the unfortunate step of removing the grant of fries. The purpose of this grant scheme is to enable religious communities outside the Norwegian Church and private foundations and non-governmental organisations within the Norwegian Church to build premises with lower funding. A key prerequisite for freedom of religion is the ability to exercise faith. The system of grants to private church buildings is an important contribution to ensuring more equal treatment between different religious communities. Several congregations and religious communities have already started construction projects in which the subsidy from this item is budgeted. Buddhists, friars, reading adians and others have recently contacted us because they are doubtful that this grant will be removed. The article this time is a little frustrated – I admit it. But it's because of the many cuts, especially when it comes to freed schools and research. I sincerely hope that this will be a one-off phenomenon, and that in the future we will be able to focus on other important issues of church and education. I also hope that the ministry will realize that the cuts made are of the utmost importance to the diversity of values we want to shape this society in the future, and that these values are part of strengthening the formation that is an important part of all competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e515	We have recently experienced a rather explosive increase in the number of private commercial schools. In this respect, I would like to quote the County rapporteur in East-Agder, who is a party trap by the representative Lånke. The quotation is from Agderposten on 4 March this year, and refers to John Bauer Norge AS, who applied for the establishment of a private secondary school with 525 students in Arendal: ‘Both KrF and I are general for private schools, but that doesn’t mean you need to support everyone. It is allowed to use ‘haue’, says Skiaa.’ Is the representative Lånke in agreement with his party trap Skiaa, or has the Christian People's Party abandoned its former school policy, where they did not want private commercial schools? Another example is the representative Lånke's municipality of residence, Trondheim. If not the privatisation that was added up to now, had been stopped, had 60 pst. of the upper secondary education places in general education become private. Is that what the Christian People's Party and the representative Lånke call a supplement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e527	The representative, Freddy de Ruiter, here draws up a frightful perspective on the development of the private school area that I believe lacks any foundation in reality. Today, private schools make up 2 to 4 pst. Of the total number of student places in the country, and we understand here that we're talking about a marginal part of the school image. What is disastrous and unfortunate about this is that we are now trying to shift our attention from the reality that the Minister of Education is now putting an end to the establishment of fresh schools, putting a line over parental rights and the law adopted by the Stortinget, which has been adhered to and which legitimizes the establishment of high schools. That's the problem. The problem is that democratic rights enshrined in Norwegian law are being trampled on here and an urgent regime is being set in motion to stop development. We have protested against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e532	The representative Lånke mentioned that he was frustrated by the government's proposal. I have to say that I have a great deal of understanding of that frustration, especially with regard to the issue of high school. The representative Lånke and the Christian People's Party is one of the high school champions. I also understand that it is now completely independent of any religious preferences of the schools. But it's still a problem that students who choose to go to a high school have to pay a special to go there. The Progress Party has proposed in this budget that one should have 100 pst. coverage rate instead of 85 pst. for students who choose a post-secondary school in front of a public school. Does not the Christian People's Party agree that one should contribute to reducing the self-payment for students who choose a high school? And isn't it a good idea for the Christian People's Party to vote for the proposals of the Advance Party today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e538	Actually, this line from the representative Anundsen of the Progress Party is a pleasant line, and it draws up a perspective that we could well agree on. But what I think is the problem with the policy of both the representative Anundsen and the Progress Party, is that they live in a slightly different world than the rest of us. This is a dream perspective. We wanted to get to where we could have full equality, and where we could get rid of the parental payment in these schools. But the situation has been the opposite throughout all the years the Christian People's Party has fought for the colleges: we have fought for the right to establish and operate them, and that they can have a solid economy. So 85 pst. been a natural rental. The focus now is on what I just underlined, the right to establish and operate the schools. So we'll see what we do in the future. I also think it's a little bit about these schools building on idealism. Those who have started them will do something, and it's not entirely unreasonable, I think, that a small proportion is required to be able to deviate from the norms of public school. So I don't see this as the big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e545	The representative Lånker said that he was frustrated, but I now want to add that there were only parts of the post that were, because I noticed that the representative Lånker was pleased with, among other things. the continuation of the promise of knowledge, which also means a good local economy. In this budget, municipalities have been given a real boost — and that is only the first part of a plan of escalation — especially when thinking about core areas such as care for the elderly, school and church. I therefore believe that this budget is more in line with what the former central government stood for than the arrangement that the Christian People's Party has been in for the last four years. It might have been interesting to hear Loan's assessment of the situation. What does a good community economy really have to mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e552	There was not just frustration in the post. I said that I am happy that the Knowledge promise is being followed up, with some exceptions. I hope we can also stand together to fight for better resources for the school. I also agree with the representative, Enger, that it is good that the municipalities get more money. The Christian People's Party has been a champion for us to have a good community economy around the country. This will also be reflected in major appropriations for the purposes referred to by the representative None. However, I would like to come back to a problem in this regard. What about the distribution and use of the money that the municipality receives? Here, for example, has the Central Party of the Government. have participated in the cuts in the appropriations of the ecclesiastical councils. It has been said that this should be covered by local authorities now that they have received so much more money. Yeah, we'll see if it's real. The signals that have come to light show that the churches are only getting smeared by this money. I hope this is a picture that changes, and that the Government will make its way to the churches too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e561	On behalf of students, parents, students — yes, all who are somehow engaged in education and childbirth — the Centre Party has great ambitions. The harvest has been very short, but nevertheless the result is that this government has a different agenda and priorities than the previous government. After several years of financial starvation of municipalities and pressure towards the launching and privatisation of key welfare services such as school and care, this government will give priority to community and local welfare. It is therefore a significant improvement in the finances of municipalities, and there has been a main priority in this budget. We will provide all children and young people with the best opportunities for further education and working life through 13-year-old basic education. In order to achieve this, it is necessary for school owners, municipalities and county municipalities to be financially able to provide all pupils with good training. As you know, the revenues of municipalities will be increased by DKK 5.7 billion in 2006. I have heard from local politicians who say that it is too small, and that there will be no expansion of various municipal services. They claim that, for example, no more teachers in school. But I also record reports from municipalities where local politicians breathe lightly and can blow off further cuts in the school budget. I recognize that the «Christmas gift of the year» to the school owners is not enough. However, this is the first paragraph of a multiannual escalation plan to achieve a better balance between tasks and revenues in the local government sector. The real consequence of this budget is that many municipalities already have the financial opportunity to develop a good school, both in terms of content and the physical working environment. After several years of closure of schools, reduction of teaching positions, sharing hours and the use of temporary workers, municipalities are now given an actual opportunity to reverse negative developments and instead employ more teachers and enforce students’ right to appropriate training. Let me also stress that the majority government will continue and strengthen the main lines of the Knowledge Lift. High quality training, increased organisation for each student, curricula with clear learning objectives, greater freedom of method in teaching and efforts to re-train teachers, school leaders and instructors shall be pursued. It is important to maximise teachers’ ability to disseminate knowledge and skills. Because the majority government has wanted to strengthen this area, I would particularly like to mention the Norwegian Education Team. It is a national, idealistic organisation that develops the competence of Norwegian teachers. LNU ensures professional competence in the subject, publishes journals and journals, and organises courses and conferences. The work is carried out without State aid. The majority of the Committee would like to support them and allocate funds to them. Another important project is the value project ‘Shall not’. The project is under way on the initiative of the Christian Educational Association. It has been going on for three years and has received very good feedback, including. in an evaluation by the Norwegian Institute for Research on Growth, Welfare and Ageing. This shall be continued. The school environment is crucial for students’ learning outcomes, health and well-being. It is therefore satisfactory to increase the investment framework for interest-rate compensation schemes for upgrading school buildings by DKK 1 billion, so that it now amounts to DKK 3 billion for 2006. It will allow several municipalities to make the necessary improvements to the learning environment of the students. It's important to have a good public school. The majority government wants to create a modern and diverse common school where students with different backgrounds meet. Providing children and young people with more knowledge and appropriate training in the context of a community is an important objective for the three batches. As is well known, there is a notice of a change to the law to tighten the prevalence of independent schools that do not represent a content alternative to public schools. And so, yesterday it was definitely temporary freezing. Today, I register happy support at the leadership position in the evening post. In order for everyone to have an equal right to education irrespective of the economic and social situation, it is assumed, inter alia, that: good funding for studies, access to student housing and other welfare schemes, such as: Student kindergartens. The majority add up to 10 million. kr in this area, a wish to which the student organisations have also joined wholeheartedly. So a little bit about colleges. They are scattered around our country and provide essential services, so that different parts of the country have highly skilled labour, both for local businesses and for the public sector. Decentralized education is of great importance. The government therefore prioritised strengthening the grant of decentralised state higher education services. This is a subsidy that was significantly reduced in the current year’s budget. The draft budget of Mr Bondevik II also proposed structural measures such as: involve the closure of individual places of study and some disciplines. This has now been corrected by an increase in grants to the Hedmark College and the Sogn and Fjordane College, so that the offers at the Evenstad and Sandane places of study can be continued. In Norway, we are very concerned that there is too little training in real science. It has been mentioned by several earlier today. We have too few engineers. There are, of course, many reasons for this. For the second consecutive year, it was proposed to move 20 student places in engineering from Gjøvik. The majority of the population did not want to do so in the previous budget, nor this time. We will await an evaluation in this field. It is important that the need for competence of regions is reflected in the distribution of study services. Let me go a little further in the case of Gjøvik. This region has 8 000 jobs linked to engineering-related industries and is one of Norway’s densest industrial regions. We're talking about the Raufoss/Moelven area. A reduction in the number of technical subjects will in the long term have consequences for recruitment and research activities around this industrial environment. It is a fact that Gjøvik University has over several years adapted technological education to the needs of industry. This, in turn, has meant a distortion from traditional engineering training to other types of technological education. As a matter of fact, NTNU may wish to move master’s education in specific engineering subjects from Trondheim to the University of Gjøvik as early as 2006 in order to have a closer link with industry. In addition to other initiatives in this area, this shows how centrally the Gjøvik region is perceived as being by the leading research communities. It would be devastating if local education were to be built in parallel. Society is changing rapidly in many ways, and it is important to facilitate efforts to develop skills in the labour market. This government does it. We believe that the possibility of continuing training is necessary for the individual and for the workplace. The government’s budget proposal involves increasing efforts to develop adult competences, in particular the provision of training in the labour market. According to the study ALL — a survey of adult reading and mastering skills — we have 400,000 adults with lack of basic skills in reading, writing, billing and digital skills in Norway today. 400,000 is a high number. It is therefore of great importance that the allocation of the Programme for Basic Competence in Work is increased. In this way, more adults can strengthen their basic skills and thus have the opportunity to master demands and change in working and social life. This will be an important tool for developing Norway into a leading knowledge nation. And it has to do with the dignity of the individual. We all need to succeed in some areas. The majority government will ensure that the Norwegian Church can still be an open and inclusive people's church, and that's very good. Then there will now be a major and important debate on the relationship between state and church based on the stance of the State Church Committee. It becomes known at the end of January, and the theme requires a major and important debate. That is, the debate is already under way, but we have to take the time to implement it properly. The Church is also facing other different challenges, but we will come back to this on a later occasion. This applies, inter alia, to: Economics, which is a big deal for the Church as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e611	I have registered that the Center Party believes it is important to have a good school offer wherever you live in the country. We know that when the DKK 5.7 billion that the representative Inger Enger mentioned is transferred to the municipalities, many municipalities will give a different priority to what the government is basing on, and the Central Party would really want them to do in relation to bets on, for example. school. Why won't the Central Party help to ensure that the school offer in the districts is as good as anywhere else? Why will they not help to ensure that school provision is independent of the municipality in which the parents of the children have chosen to live?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e618	I thank you for the question from the representative of the Progress Party. Now we were kind of shown that there are different basic political views here. The representative of the Progress Party wants state funds directly transferred. We believe that it is the municipalities that can best use these funds. We are in favour of local maritime governance, which is evident from this line that the Progress Party is actually opposed, as I perceived it. The background to Anundsen's question was that he thought that students in the districts should have a school offer as well as anywhere else. I think that's weird. I've heard of a lot of bad deals in cities, so it's not necessarily that the local economy is the worst in the districts. That the funds are being used incorrectly, I strongly reject. Some municipalities have to use them in school, others in care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e625	It is clear from the debate that there are other priorities that now apply. The representative Enger takes a fairly easy look at the issue of private colleges and the drama of the changes in colleges. In the case of private colleges, the Center Party is now part of a government that first cuts 15 million. kr in the additional proposal and which subsequently applies a further 1 million to the Norwegian Travel Life School. kr. Travel should certainly be a bet area for the Centre Party. For post-secondary schools, Djupedal has signaled that certain cross-country schools should continue to be allowed to start up. This is interpreted by many as schools that the Centre Party may allow. It may be tempting to present a concrete example that is most relevant to my own municipality. There's a group trying to start a high school, actually in a public school that was closed last year. The question is, has the Center Party thought about what the contents of certain primary schools are?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e634	I understand that Gundersen is busy with private schools. Now it is known that we have got a temporary freeze arrangement. It's well known that the Center Party, like the other parts of the Government, wants to tighten up in this area. It was absolutely necessary that there should now be a freeze system because today’s system would lead to a massive release and make it more difficult for the public school. Maybe that's the background because there'll also be cross-country schools in Gundersen's area. We believe it is important to spend a long time on the new law, and therefore this temporary freezing system has come. In the case of primary schools, I can't give direct examples, but the representative said the central party must have had some influence to get this done. That's absolutely right. We're in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e641	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have cooperated a lot throughout history. We've faced a lot of the same thing, not least when it comes to value issues. Now the Center Party has chosen to join the Labour Party and the Swedish Government. My question to the representative Enger is: How do the attacks in a good number of areas where the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have previously been united? In order to be in budgetary mode, these are the famous cuts, among others. to the post-secondary schools, cuts in basic grants to a number of private colleges, cuts in general transfers to the post-secondary schools, removal of rent subsidies, etc. Then we also have the question of cuts to the church councils. All these are issues that affect important values that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have united. The representative of Enger may also be allowed to answer the question that I had in my previous line: What does she think about the municipalities not following up and using the new ‘Christmas gifts’ they have received to the church councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e649	There were a number of questions the representative Lånk asked me, but I will try to answer as best I can in a short time. First of all, it was the question of whether it felt good for the Center Party to be in government together with SV and the Workers' Party. That's very interesting. If I could, I would like to send the question back: how was it to be with the Right and Left in the previous government? We both belong to the center parts and we probably have a lot to talk about in that context. I have to say that this works very well, because the three current government parties are united about central values, among other things. in the case of a good public school. Of course, when it comes to private colleges, it's a good thing to take us hard for it. But we tried to re-prioritize so that it would benefit the districts. It wasn't the previous government that busy. I would nevertheless believe that the Christian People's Party will not call itself district enemy for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e658	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e661	For the Left, the fight for education and research is a struggle for education, knowledge and culture. Creation means that we all get a ballast in life, so that we can be bold enough to get those who are experts, to speak to us normally, and be humble enough where we ourselves are experts, to speak normally with others. It's also this government that is now sitting, will be measured and tested on. For the left, the starting point for this measurement is that we should have respect for knowledge, whether it is the knowledge of the spirit or of the hand. You can achieve pride and respect for the subject in many ways and in many ways. That's what others have said, and we're holding on to it. Respect for the teacher is also essential, but there must be mutual respect. We're not going to have educational situations where young people can call teachers almost anything without it responding. On the contrary, we should also have teachers who are so safe and well educated that they know that young people can be very different. Through life's hard school and experience, we all know that the one who learns something is the one who struggles a little bit. But it's light years from striving a little bit to striving the way little Marius did in the poison of Alexander Kielland, or Jonas in the book of Bjørneboe. It seems to me that we have a challenge in parts of School Norway, when in practice we seem to focus more on school as a venue than a place of study. I agree with the school researchers who say that focusing on learning is absolutely essential for our school, the normal school, the school we have in both primary and secondary schools. That focus must be kept. Then it is vital that we have teachers who are so good that they can keep focus – not only on those who are going to stretch, whether they are good in one way or another, but also so good that they can see those who stumble along with other professionals. That is why I am pleased that, for example, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In a unanimous remark, the Council of State and the Government invite us to look at what we call ADHD under an umbrella umbrella. We know from an article held earlier today, that through prisons we can measure society. And there are scary people sitting in, who have passed without being seen. I myself have met a human being who for the first time as a 39-year-old in a prison got help for his ADHD problem. Many others hadn't looked at the road. We have to turn it around, so you learn to see clearly, and the school is a vital arena for it. One of the crucial factors for the development of a school and a society, for civilisation and democracy and for business development are research. I very much agree with Huitfeldt's representative when she says that it is on the actions to be tested in government, and not on the words. Yes, but this government is acting. One of its first actions was to propose reducing the Research Fund by DKK 25 billion. And it's not rhetoric, it's action. So Huitfeldt's representative has a brilliant right: with this action, the government has illustrated that it doesn't want to think about research in the long term, but wants to weaken this. Anyone who knows something about research policy knows that the Research Fund is not crucial for the large numbers, but it is crucial for the long term. It's vital to hope. Then come the incomprehensible cuts, which are not so big in numbers, but which affect business research. And it becomes even more incomprehensible in relation to the freeness of Huitfeldt's representative, because these actions are undermining the ability of business to contribute to research. The representative Huitfeldt represents a party that, together with the SV and the Center Party, did not think it was possible to get enough business research. So one of the first things you do through practical actions, is to weaken this further. There are two explanations for this: you don't understand what you're doing, or you're in desperate need of money, and you get what you have. I stick to the last explanation, because the first explanation is so injuring that I don't want to use it. Then it means that you actually made some choices, even if you don't admit them. Those choices give some ominous signals to those who want to think about research in the long term. And so: because one has almost got the word ‘private’ on the brain, and has not even got the basic definition of ‘private’ of social knowledge in Norway, such as ‘private’. a. means a) all of us in the world, b) all of us as members of NPISHs and c) all of us in sympathy with non-profit-based nonprofit institutions, one throws itself, for example. over private colleges, which have often been pioneers and carry out community tasks. And you can do it, for example. to trigger what cannot be blamed as any planned action from either the Left or any other party, namely a joint letter from Helga Hjetland and Kolbjørn Hagen on what is being done against the Academy of Teachers and the Bergen School of Teachers, where – as they say from the two trade unions – they conduct both high-quality teacher education and research. Despite this, here you cut because, according to the statements of the representative, Enger, you are supposed to do something to ensure the district profile. But it can't be that because you have done damage, you have to make the damage worse for safety. It's not like in politics that it's always on the big dollars you measure. It's in the direction you measure. And here, in two areas, there's a direction that's inaccurate. It is the direction of research – not only civilisation-building research, but also research against industry – and that is the direction of private universities. I would recommend the representative Huitfeldt, who obviously has a great interest in history – I do too – to go back to the time when the Socialists won a majority in Kristania in 1915. Then they said the following wise words on the health side: that the old people's homes are run by private people, and the nursing homes are run by the municipality. I would also recommend her to go back to the time when there was a socialist majority in Oslo City Council, when Brynjulf Bull was the rapporteur and Hans Cappelen was the councillor. It was then possible to understand and apprehend these non-profit institutions. This peaks when the new Minister of Knowledge, almost at a pace that would have indicated that there had been a terrorist attack, such as Batman from heaven – it is possible that it is not entirely parliamentary, but at least that was the feeling I got – knocks down the boarding schools. What he manages to do, in addition to what he obviously wants to do, is also to take with him the schools that stand for a pedagogy that before the election was solemnly said not to be hit, namely the Steiner Schools. The government has, for example: a prime minister who has experience from a Steiner School, so you know what it is. In addition, life - vision schools are hit. This isn't very precise. It's very tough and raw, and it's very clear. It seems amazing to me, especially when the same Council of State has several times reported that he will think thoroughly about a number of areas before he acts. He has e.g. chosen to do so – and I will give him praise for it – in the case of, among others. what others have mentioned, namely general study competence after 13 years of study. The Council of State has chosen to answer the question, and he has chosen to reflect on it and not go on the blind line that every 13-year-old school run should lead to general study competence. I would like to give the Council of State recognition for that. That means he's thinking about it. So all of a sudden, we get the jerk that hits in like it does, and that I've now described. What I think we should all be able to agree on is that with the freedom we have given locally to schools, primary schools, secondary schools, I think it is absolutely necessary that debates on the content of the school are also held in the municipalities, which we are all concerned with. There are, in truth, debates on bricks. That's good. There are debates about bread slices. That's good. There are also debates on ventilation systems. That's good. But there has to be a debate on the content of the school. This debate may, for example: start with a debate on how to maintain and restore respect for the learning situation between teacher and student, which is mutual. Students' rights are important, but in any life, regardless of age, they relate to rights and obligations. It's something that's absolutely crucial to building communities and communities. Then we should be able to be concerned about seeing early those who wear, those who fall outside, those who like to come under the joint label ADHD. Then we can see that part of the civilisation mission is also being answered by supporting our cultural schools. On behalf of the Left, I note that he has so far sent strong uncertainty signals to Norwegian research, that he has chosen to send signals to think carefully about the study competence, which I think is good, that he has sent signals to private universities that may hardly be based on current professional knowledge, but more based on the need to find budgetary resources, and that in view of the second foreign language, he has actually chosen a course that, in my opinion, does not really take on either the international world we live in, or the formidable integration problems that we have in our own country. Finally, I would like to note that we are also dealing with a church budget. At that point, I would like to commend the Council of State in the area because he does not throw himself on that wave that he believes that the question of state-denial relations should be resolved by a referendum. I'll say it straight out: if there's something that will seem polarizing, it's such a thing. If there is something that demands that politicians take on leadership responsibility in the follow-up to an investigation that we will get, that is the very thing. I noticed that other representatives have chosen such a line. I think, as Left wants, we'll get a distinction between Church and State. But if we're going to end up with a broad people's church with deep anchoring, it should happen after a process that's anchored in the investigation committee that we have, which is anchored in the reflective thoughts that I feel the Council of Churches has launched, where we jointly take responsibility for how we're going to deal with this. I think we're going to admit that this is going to be one of the biggest things we have. It's a very big thing. There's old tape that's being solved, and we're going to light it up and do it in a proper way. Otherwise, of course, the Left stands together on the proposals that have been taken up in the past. We have joint proposals in terms of both building maintenance, landlines and gifts to strengthen research, along with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e689	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e692	The representative of Dørum is very concerned about the private schools. In the past, the Left has co-operated with the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre on a good public school with room for all, regardless of social and cultural backgrounds. In recent years, public schools have been under great pressure because municipalities have cut down on all budgets, including schools. This has led to great frustration and apprehension as to how this important social learning arena has also been able to develop. Now there is constant feedback that, in the financial structure of the municipalities for the next year, the municipal politicians are giving priority to the school. Isn't the Left and the Representative of Dørum just as concerned by public school anymore? And in case they are: why don't they support the financial arrangement of the red-green government for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e697	Public school is a product, among other things. by school reforms promoted by the Left, jointly with other parties in the Chamber. Of course, we support public schools, but the view of private schools is that we recognize that we have Convention obligations. We recognise that we have a training obligation in Norway, but not a school obligation. You can learn by going to public school, which we would prefer to do, by doing it well, so good that it wins, but also by the generosity of diversity that we should be able to have in our private schools, and by the opportunity that we have for home schooling. So the question is, why don't we support the economic structure of the government that's sitting there. It's a whole. We cannot support a scheme that undermines the possibility for those who want to create the unborn business, small and medium-sized enterprises, those who provide jobs for everyone. We cannot support thinking that seems to be turning policy backwards, where one in a number of areas is so afraid that the public sector should be able to be converted at all, that braking is one of the most important things to do. There's a whole in this setup. On the school side, however, we clearly exceed the budget of the red-green parties, because we give priority to school, among other things. with the Knowledge Lift. Of course, we are very happy that it is being continued by a new government. That's where we stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e704	Private colleges are subjected to dramatic cuts by the current government. We in the committee have been constantly given new input from various private colleges that tells us how dramatic these cuts will be for both important subjects and for the overall offer. It seems that the government's cut is motivated primarily by two things – one that the government needs money to finance other things, and the other that they are fighting against everything that has to do with private initiative. Such a policy makes it absolutely impossible for private colleges to plan in the long term. Does the representative agree with this description? Does the representative of Dørum agree that greater equality between private universities and public-owned universities should be sought?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e709	Let me first admit that I actually have experience from two schools, one was a public college, the social school in Trondheim, the other was a private college, namely the Diakon home. And I find that the Diakon Home College was among the few schools that were not separated by NOKUT, when you were looking at nursing education. I think it's absolutely fundamental that we recognize that the private universities in Norway, those who receive public support, have often been pioneers in their fields, they have done community missions. And when they do these societal tasks, it's not commercial, it's not profit-based. So it's completely incomprehensible to me that this comes from a government that includes SV. That the AUF is blind to this, I understand, SV just a little bit on the way – but at least not the representative Rikvam; he understands that, President. I must be allowed to express myself that way, through the President. And the fact that the center party can be involved in this, only arouses such amazing vibrations in me that I will leave the vibrations in the hall. It can't be treated this way. You can't act as if you're ignorant, in a room where you're talking about having respect for historical knowledge. Private colleges were pioneers, and they should be treated and hailed as pioneers. I thought pioneers were a socialist expression, by the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e716	The President is somewhat uncertain about some of the characteristics here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e719	It's not always as easy to need behind Odd Einar Dørum's rhetoric. But in one area he was quite clear and clear, and it was in relation to what the Council of State has done in terms of private schools, the changes and the changes in relation to the changes in the private school law. The public school is the pillar of our whole welfare community. We see an international trend now that other countries are looking at Norway. Why do we succeed? Is there anything about the Nordic welfare model that is important to take care of and that is important to develop? And then my question goes to Odd Einar Dørum, as far as the private school law is concerned: it's not the Steiner schools and those who run alternative pedagogics, and, to a large extent, not colleges, which are the challenge. But the new is the more commercial schools that have entered the Norwegian market. Is Odd Einar Dørum and the Left concerned about the development that this might be a part of undermining the welfare society in the longer term, if this gets a huge amount?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e726	I share the declaration of love with the public school, because it is the one who has given me the ballast I have in life, and which allows me to be bold in the voice of the Storting – as well as the experiences we can call the hard school of life. In the case of private schools, as was done in the government I was in, we chose to set quality standards. It was not possible to do it the way we were going to. And even if you're now a religious driver, or a Steiner educational driver, you have to meet quality standards. At the same time, we can't just walk around and forbid everything we don't like, it's going to be a completely impossible line. So the left line is to bet so much on public school that it shines off. That's why we were fighting for the promise of knowledge. We have that in common, both the opposition and the position in this room. So it's the law we got -- we're talking about the commercial -- it's not allowed to make any profits. And if there's any money, they're going back in favor of the school. There's been a thought that improved the old law of high school, in my opinion. And the representative Rikvam knows that I have had this position for a long time. I think both – and, I: a heavy public school – that it should shine off – is important, and then we have room for diversity as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e738	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e741	Education, competence and learning are essential for the personal development of individuals, for productivity and innovation in working life, and for growth and well-being in society in general. I am therefore very pleased that the Government has now presented a draft budget in which we take proper action to ensure this. When Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen presented the supplementary proposal, for the first time ever a finance minister presented a plan for the nation's wealth. It shows that the nation's wealth is essentially the knowledge we have in our heads and hands. It just underlines the infinite importance: investing in knowledge is investing in the future of the country. That's what our government intends to do over the years we've been going to sit. The government parties went to the elections on a new policy of justice and more commonality. This draft budget is the first step in this direction. One of the most important contributions is that we strengthen the municipal economy significantly, with a total of NOK 5.7 billion. For many years now, the local economy has been declining, causing municipalities to face major challenges. Historically, a municipality will use about 30 pst. of what it has for school and education. Whether you do it out of this money is uncertain, because the debt for many municipalities is large over four years with the starvation of the municipality from the previous government. My hope, however, is that these increased funds received by municipalities go to more teachers and better quality in public schools. For quality in school costs, it's something everyone knows that has children in school, or that has a relationship with school. And the school is the most important arena. The draft budget shall continue the broad lines of the promise of knowledge. The government is committed to starting the reform as planned, in the autumn of 2006, both in primary and secondary schools. We have had a careful process with all the different actors, because there has been some concern – if the reform was well organised and planned. Through this process, we are sure that it is right to start for high school the next autumn, even if there are some questions that need to be addressed – not least the information for students, teachers and parents who have children to start in high school. This will be addressed by the Ministry together with the county councils. The various activities of the Knowledge Commitment, individually and collectively, are important contributions for, inter alia, the following: to improve the implementation of secondary education. There has been a lot of debate about the national tests in the past. Let it be clear: the national tests shall be used to improve training. They shall not be used to rank schools. I'm going to go into every side of the national tests. As you know, national tests should not be conducted in the next six months, because the tests we had have been shown not to maintain the required quality. I have started a process of creating new national tests to be organised in the way that we want national tests to be. This question I will come back to. The Government is continuing its commitment to the Strategy for the Development of Competences for the period 2005-2008. Next year's budget means 375 million. to school owners as state support in this important work. Let me also mention – as it has been up in the debate – two aspects of the Knowledge Lift that many have discussed. What the government is doing with regard to the second foreign language is that we are giving the possibility of immersion in English, in Norwegian or in Sami for those who would like it. This shall be a qualifying subject, which shall be assessed by grade and shall apply to admission to secondary school. This will mean that the students will face several qualifying choices. We want as many foreign languages as possible to be chosen. The pedagogics underlying the practical approach to the second foreign language is important and a renewal for our school. So you can choose between Spanish, German, French and Russian, or in some cases also other foreign languages. It's valuable to the individual, it's valuable to the school, and it's valuable to our society. The fact that someone prefers depression in English, Norwegian or Sami is a strength for the school, not the opposite. I feel that much of the criticism that is being raised is incorrect, or has in itself false premises, simply because all the choices here will be qualifying and demanding. Some have raised the question of study competence, that the right to study competence should automatically be granted over a 13-year period. It is necessary to make new rounds with the secondary schools, with the universities and with the higher education institutions in order to know how to achieve this. But we have a lot of experience to build on, not least in the context of the real skills reform, which allows adults to qualify for higher education and university education. It's been a great success. In this way, many adult women have taken teacher training, nurse training or, for that matter, pre-school teacher training. Many have been shown to be qualified to study for higher education. We also have experience in engineering, where you can go further from a professional letter, which has proved very appropriate. This is the experience we will build on. We'll get back to it after a process. This means that those young people who know for sure today that they want to go to college or university have to choose preparatory programmes next school year, because this process will take some time. In addition, two major development programmes will be launched which will provide significant resources. It is the School Development Programme and the R & D programme in cooperation with teacher education and school. These are aimed at increasing knowledge of what works in school, and at disseminating good examples and practices. I am keen on the experience and results that we will be able to reap from these programmes. But let me also say something about the position of the real subjects, as some have been involved. We're worried about the place of real science, that teachers lack competence, and that many young people don't have the motivation to go on with real science. In the last period a work was started under Kristin Clemet called «Realfach, of course!». This continues our government, and we are going to review it with new measures that enable teachers to gain more knowledge and that motivate young people to choose a real science. Real science is important. Over the year – not only for the few months we have been in government, but also under the previous government and government before that – the importance of real subjects has been weakened. This means that it will take years to reverse this trend. But we're doing a job that we're sure will lead to more real-life skills over the years. Motivating teachers and having professional quality in teachers may be one of the most important things in this, and we will focus on that. It is not just the professional content of training that needs to be strengthened. The physical working environment for pupils and teachers must also be improved. The Government therefore proposes to extend the interest compensation scheme for investments in school facilities by a further DKK 1 billion. That means there'll be $3 billion to next year. In addition, we have helped to improve the recruitment of the teaching profession through increased funding. This enables us to obtain 500 new places of study for next year in general, pre-school and practical education. And the government wants to promote decentralised education, which is important, and proposes a strengthened allocation for this. For higher education, an increase of about 4.1 pst has been proposed. compared to the 2005 budget. This implies a real growth for universities and higher education institutions. The government has given priority to continuing and adjusting the allocations of 1,144 million. kr for the Quality Reform. Furthermore, a growth in the total number of study credits has increased by about 156 million. kr in the result-based education funding. I have noticed that the committee wants to get back to Stortinget with an evaluation of the quality reform, and we will of course facilitate that. The Government's objective is to increase the overall investment in research and education to 3 pst. of gross domestic product by 2010. Of this, the public investment shall be one third. The major lines of research policy are being continued or reinforced. Basic research shall be strengthened. Internationalisation of Norwegian research is a high priority. The government will deliberately invest in research in those industries where Norway has natural advantage and great value creation potential. Furthermore, the Government will focus on business-oriented research and ensure good dissemination of research results. The draft budget represents an overall growth in research funding of DKK 1.33 billion. This corresponds to a real growth of 7 pst. in relation to the 2005 allocation. This is a historically good research budget, and it provides a good basis for achieving the objective of a public research effort of 1 pst. of GDP by 2010. That the capital of the Research and Innovation Fund is increased by DKK 14 billion is also known. Many have indicated that the appropriations proposed by the previous government have not been carried forward. If it's just saying that if you look at what the previous government did over its four years, you'll see that research was the field that lost continuously – except in the last draft budget, when you knew you had to go off. Through our years in government, we will follow up the Biggest goal of 3 pst. of GDP in terms of further stepping up the appropriations for research. A central objective of research policy is to ensure the recruitment of researchers. This applies in both business, research institutes and universities and higher education institutions. A total of 350 new doctoral degrees have been introduced to increase recruitment. I started my speech by pointing out the importance of education, competence and learning for individuals, for employment and for society. This means that we will return to a follow-up to competence policy. The policy of competence and the broad vision of knowledge it represents are also infinitely important for the knowledge and education society we are to create.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e795	Yesterday, State Council Djupedal announced to the press that he would present a proposal for an exemption law to stop all fresh oils – whether they have already been approved or not, but would have done so under new law. On 30 November, I received an answer from the Council of State, Djupedal, to a written question, with the assurance that all applications would be subject to proper proceedings. With respect to reporting, if this is a proper procedure, then that is all. It changes rapidly in the department of Djupedal State Council. The question will be: how much more money does the council save on this attack against students who have chosen, or want to choose, a free school, in addition to a cut of 335 million. which has already been carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e802	Let me first correct the replicator: there is no cut in private schools in the proposed budget. There is an estimated change on the basis of a census of students per year. 1 October, which makes it a minor consumption, linked to the fact that fewer schools have started, and there are fewer students. So there is no cut in private schools in the budget proposal that Stortinget has to deal with today. With regard to the change we presented yesterday, there will be a law that the Stortinget will be dealt with in February, following a consultation round. It is true that we are freezing today's situation pending a permanent law. We do that to prevent uncontrolled growth in private schools, which would have undermined public schools and opportunities for long-term planning, not least for the county. We see a significant increase in the number of applications in major cities in the field of general education, from common commercial actors – not as an alternative, neither pedagogical nor religious. It has been necessary to do some grip. I am pleased to note that local politicians from almost all the political colors say that it is wise to take a break. We will come back with a permanent law. But this is made out of that consideration, and not for economic reasons, as the replicator well suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e811	I am recording that the Council of State Djupedal does not at all answer the question from the representative of Anders Anundsen. In the draft budget, the contribution to the primary schools is reduced by 335 million. kr due to an estimate change. In the financial debate on 24 November, the Council of State clarified that this did not lead to a change in the rules, to a reduction in the number of schools or to lower subsidies. In addition, it was announced that there would be an overall review and a new law in the spring of 2006. In addition, the Committee’s opinion states that ‘the reduction in the estimate does not entail a change in the rules’. The setting was made on 7 December. In other words, there was no reason to expect this urgent decision that came yesterday. In addition, the Council of State has repeated in letters to the Committee, ensuring that this does not entail any changes. I would ask the Council of State to clarify why the Storting was not informed during the presentation of the budget, during the examination of the Committee or in the letter to the Committee that the downgrading is, in fact, a change in the rules which has immediate and serious consequences, in particular. for the Steinerskolen and the Montessori Schools, for the financial year 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e822	The change in the estimate mentioned in the budget proposal is linked to an pupils’ census per year. 1 October, and has nothing to do with the current government policy in this area. We have announced in the Soria Moria Declaration, as we announced in the election campaign, and otherwise also in the suspension at the time the law was passed, that we have a different view of this. That view is reflected in the fact that the voters gave us the mandate through elections to make changes. So it has turned out that these changes require more extensive preparation than we initially saw for us. Let me just show you one example: in the new curricula for the autumn, there is more freedom of method in education. So there's no longer one pedagogy like the school pedagogy we all had when I went to school. That means defining a pedagogical option when you have a freedom of method will take a little longer to figure out how to do it. But, of course, we are clear that we need alternatives, both educational and religious, in the new law we want to promote for the Stortinget in spring 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e829	Refreshols are still to be considered. Some time ago, I came across a quote in the Kommunal Report. It says: ‘I think I could become a good lecturer in Norwegian school. For I have a good head." The opinion is from the Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal. Most of us will probably agree that it's good to have a good head. I guess it's not completely important how we use our head either. Now, I'm going to give the Minister of Knowledge a challenge to clarify what he has also said, namely, as late as yesterday's New Year 18th, and it's about stopping in high school: ‘The government is united behind this. This is what we have promised our voters.It turns out that the concept of both pedagogical and religious alternatives needs to be reviewed in order to obtain content for our time." I think these formulations have caused a lot of unrest in high school circles, not least among those who operate on a religious basis. Now I challenge the Minister of Knowledge to say what's in this. What does that mean for him to undergo a «religious alternative» in view of the «content of our time»?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e848	As I said in my previous answer related to the educational option, it will be necessary, in the light of the new curricula, to define how one can have an alternative when one has freedom of method in public school. It'll take a little longer. But we are very clear that there should be educational alternatives. We're just as clear about the existence of religious alternatives. I do not see the need for any new definitions of ‘religious alternatives’ to the same extent. It's easier to define. I think it'll be an easier process. I assume – without having gone into it very carefully – that the definition contained in the old private school law may also be appropriate in the new law. What will be the main challenge, according to my concepts, and what will take longer, will be linked to educational options in school. But I am absolutely sure that both Steiner-pedagogics and Montessori-pedagogics will be able to be defined beyond the school's pedagogics. That means that when we get the permanent law of treatment, these schools may have predictability in their long-term planning. These schools have a long tradition of representing alternatives, and we don't want to change it. Then there are many new educational directions that we must of course also have the opportunity to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e857	After the information available after yesterday's lightning action by the Council of State, there are also schools that are now being frozen – to use the expression – that were approved and that could start up. Can the Council of State guarantee that these are matters that are not affected by any budgetary reality in 2006? And is it so that the Council of State per. Today, after we have had a budgetary process in the Committee – the vote was taken on 7 December – and there have been written questions from the Committee, does it seem that there could have been a possibility that the need for this lightning action should have been affected somehow in relation to the communication with the Enlarged Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e862	We have had a wish to give a very clear signal and give the Storting the opportunity to deal with this matter as soon as it has been practical. It is also linked to the deadline for applying for higher education, so that pupils, teachers and parents are prepared for how this can be done by the new government. We haven't taken financial considerations or had such considerations around what we're doing now. In the continuation of what we have said in the Soria Moria statement, this process of the permanent law, we have, with the background of what I have said in the previous line changer, needed for a little longer time. Therefore, it is necessary to get a standstill, in order to prevent the uncontrolled growth of fresh oils that we have seen. This would lead to almost a doubling of the number of pupils if all of these had been approved, or started up, and for some cities and some regions in Norway, it would lead to significant challenges for local education authorities and local politicians in dimensioning education, not least to a very centralisation and not being able to maintain the decentralised education offer – and a total increase, I believe, is concerned about having secondary schools of different directions in District Norway. This centralisation is what we stop by creating a «freezing permit» that we will present to the Stortinget during February.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e870	I have noticed that SV among other things. during the budgetary procedure last year, the term ‘bolverk’ applied to private schools. The undersigned has always had the impression that Bolverk meant fastening, but I thought this was bad in this context, so I was in the internet to check whether the term "bolverk" could have other meanings. Then I got a couple of interesting hits. First of all, I found out that representatives from the Workers' Party during the war viewed Nazism as an important bulwark against communism. My question is, of course, whether the Council of State views private schools as a bulwark against communism. Furthermore, I found that in North Island mythology was also called Odin for Bolverk. Odin was the god of knowledge or the source of knowledge. Does the state council at the colleges see as a source of knowledge that it is important to dry out, so that all students can be as equal as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e879	A public, diverse common school is a genuine quality in our society, giving all the same opportunities for education, regardless of what background you have, and regardless of your wallet. One of the top qualities of the Nordic welfare models is that everyone has the ability to realise their abilities, to the benefit of themselves and to the benefit of the community. That is what is reflected in our government's policy and view of School-Norway in general. Then I don't at all recognize what the representative here said. Of course, we fully accept and respect the need for alternatives to public school. But many of the applications that are now in place do not represent an alternative, neither pedagogical nor religious. In my opinion, they do not represent an enrichment for Education Norway either. This means that our government will focus on making the public co-financed school the best possible, in order to give all citizens of our country the opportunity to get a foundation to realize their dreams and realize their lives as they see fit. Therefore, this exchange rate conversion has been notified. That means we went to the elections and the voters gave us a mandate for this. And it says in the Soria Moria statement that there was going to be changes in this field. These changes are what we are now presenting, in the first round of a hearing, later for the Stortingen, when the consultation process is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e891	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e894	Norway has a well-developed university and higher education system. Through regional colleges, we ensure that anyone who wants higher education can get it. And we ensure that all regions have living environments of competence. Regional higher education institutions, together with the regional development environment, the business community, county councils and municipalities, contribute to a positive development across the country. The colleges have, as I see it, two objectives. They shall be important catalysts for regional development and growth and shall be key actors in professional R & D. This means that they should not only be institutions that impart knowledge, but should also have a role as research institutions that produce research results that bring new knowledge and competence into the debates on the development of established institutions in business and society. That gives you two challenges. Firstly, a good professional environment must be maintained by attracting the best learning skills, the best researchers and a sufficient number of students, while at the same time meeting the region's labour needs. It is a demanding job for regional colleges, and the majority government has a clear objective of strengthening the higher education sector in the future. With a strengthening of the higher education sector, ensuring both a good education offer for the students and a development of the regions of our country. The majority government did a good job when they put 20 million in their budget. kr for decentralised higher education. In addition, they amended some structural measures in the budget of the Bondevik II Government. This means, as we also heard the representative, Enger say, that at the Hedmark High School and at the Sogn and Fjordane College offers were maintained. The majority of the Committee also proposes that other structural measures be modified to ensure the maintenance of more training provision in the districts. It has been particularly important to maintain education that is of major importance for the development of regional economic and social life. An example of this is the maintenance of 20 places for engineering students at the University of Gjøvik. Here the Committee points to the close cooperation developed between the college and the mechanical industry there. A major effort has been made to adapt the study to the needs of the business community. The majority of the Committee has also been committed to maintaining decentralised health and social education. These are important training courses, given the great need for this type of professional staff in the next few years, if we are to achieve the target of 10,000 new annual work in the care sector. The majority of the Committee has therefore maintained decentralised study facilities for protection and ergotherapy at the Rogaland College and for protection at the Harstad College. At all, what has been done in this round shows a trend in the right direction, where one does not centralise higher education, but sees the value of a decentralised education system to create growth and development across the country. Quality reform is under evaluation. This evaluation will provide us with useful information on the situation in the higher education sector. I think we'll get a lot of positive feedback on the development of this sector, but also knowledge of what doesn't work after the intentions. It will give us opportunities to make universities and colleges even better. Quality reform is student reform. The signals that have come along are that the students have been given more study opportunities to choose from, they are more closely followed up with increases in written feedback, and they receive more and better guidance in their work. The students have received new exam forms and more subtests. It means a more intensive study situation, and figures now show that several complete their studies in normal time. However, the majority of the Committee has noted that NOCUT has notified that several study offers at state universities do not meet the requirements for the number of staff with doctoral qualifications. It's worrying. Therefore, the majority are concerned that the future award of doctoral positions reflects the need to strengthen research-based education at state universities. This is important, whether higher education is to play its role as a catalyst for regional development and growth and as an actor in professional R & D. Finally, we need to review several aspects of our university education. I look forward to the Minister of Knowledge returning to Stortinget with a case based on the evaluation of the Quality Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e920	In addition to the 1970s, the negative impact of large central schools was seen. We had a transition to smaller schools, along with the recognition that school is an important environmental and cultural factor in the community. Similarly, we might also argue that the decentralisation of the higher education system appears to be a successful regional policy approach. This includes clear and measurable effects in higher education regions of increasing education levels: increased economic activity and increased competence in local public and private services and in business. Similarly, regions with no higher education offer have slowed down. The direct increase in turnover is perhaps the most interesting for the economy of the region. However, the impact of a higher education offer on housing, increased access to skilled labour, and not least the ring-fence of different types of innovation and transfer of competences to the established business community are equally important. We are constantly seeing a mix of the concepts of higher education and higher education. By higher education, we mean all types of education based on high school. There may be vocational education and various forms of post-secondary education or studies at universities or universities. What distinguishes universities and universities from other forms of higher education is the award of credits and that education should be anchored in a research environment. Here, however, there are two things that are worth noting. Firstly, the scope of the research carried out is very different between the heavy university and regional colleges. Secondly, there is no condition that research and education take place in the same place. Most regional colleges have a centralisation of their research activities and a more decentralised model of education. It is important that an incentive for increased research in higher education is provided by the provision of more research resources to higher education institutions. Today, 88 pst. by the research funds of universities and 12 pst. to colleges. To ensure the quality and learning skills of higher education institutions and to exploit the research potential that lies here, higher education must be provided with more research resources. It is very regrettable that the government does not see this. Five years ago, in NOU 2000:5 between bark and knowledge – on vocational education and training, the Berg Committee stated that there was a great need for vocational education and training in the labour market. The committee considered that shorter and vocational education should meet the following social needs: vocational training, specialisations and certifications. There should be an alternative to higher education, and one should have the opportunity to quickly address changing needs in society and work. In the case of legal regulation, the sample proposed that vocational education should be included in a new vocational school law covering technical vocational schools. This law is currently a reality, and it is NOKUT that is responsible for approving vocational education. The private technical schools are today in the process of getting their offers approved. In short, vocational schools fill an important need in society. They provide training which is not offered at higher education institutions or which is very scarce at public universities. Students go to work quickly, the transition to the labour market is high, and they contribute to innovation and entrepreneurship, by many students starting new and viable businesses. Private vocational schools are not yet supported by the State. The fact that the students themselves are fully funding their education makes great demands on the schools, and the expectations for quality are high. A unanimous committee called on the Ministry to submit a case to the Stortinget during 2005 clarifying the financing system for all approved vocational schools and clarifying the relationship between secondary schools and vocational schools. That hasn't happened. Today, some specialised schools are funded on the basis of the number of students reported, other specialised schools through so-called estimates. Some colleges go over the Ministry of Knowledge's budget, some over the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This lack of coordination has a major impact on students. It is therefore regrettable that approved vocational training in the care of the elderly and psychiatry is still financed from the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The result is that education in the so-called soft professions does not have the same economic foundation as, for example: technical vocational schools. Those who choose to continue their training in health care receive NOK 40000 per year. the place of study, while a grant of DKK 80000 per technical school is provided. study place. This discrimination has previously been pointed out by the Progress Party and it is tragic that the Government will not rectify this relationship. We also see today that there are many unskilled assistants who want to receive formalised care assistance training, but several county councils only take responsibility for the justice system. This is why we are now faced with the fact that many adults want formal education, both legal and non-judicial. But they do not get school places, while county doctors express great concern about the recruitment of special caregivers and caregivers in the future. The law is also such that even if you have used up your right, you are not allowed to pay for a higher education yourself, if you want to. But e.g. in the AOF, you can take care of your assistant and pay thousands of your own pocket to go. In fact, several hundred health workers spend tens of thousands of dollars each year in order to obtain training or vocational training. This is not acceptable, and therefore the Progress Party has invested funds to correct these imbalances. The sad thing is that the government parties don't see these distortions, and in their search for private school offerings, they just hurt worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e950	The fact that we have a common church and school debate in Stortinget, we can probably thank King Christian 6 for that. In 1736 he introduced confirmation as compulsory scheme for all Norwegian children. Three years later, the Norwegian school was introduced to teach children and young people enough to be confirmed. That's the background for our whole schoolwork. For 150 years that was the reason for the school, namely to learn Bible history and catechism, but one could choose training in writing and billing as well. In the middle of the 1800s, there was a huge debate about the introduction of books that were not based on Bible history. This has continued until we received a compulsory nine-year single-year school with a new purpose paragraph in 1969, and in 1997 we received the CRL subject. We see how the two trends have gone side by side, a secularization of the school, but also a greater emphasis on religious education within the church communities themselves. The arrangements within the Church have also evolved in the same way. A month ago, I was a guest at the Church Meeting at Lillehammer. That was the 22nd in the sequence. It was established in 1980 as a direct result of the discussion on the state church system at the time, where one objective was to increase church autonomy, while at the same time wanting to maintain the state church system. Over the 25 years since 1980, there has been a continuous reform of the State Church system. Now we go into a year when the state church order is again put on the political agenda. Many of the fundamental questions that were discussed 25 or 30 years ago will be discussed again. The government wants a broad public debate on the state church system and the selection work presented by the Gjønnes Committee in January. We want a broad consultation round, and we want to stimulate a public debate, not only in the council, in church meetings, etc., but among the uniform state church member and throughout the Norwegian community. The size must also be actively involved in this debate. We're going to lay the foundation for a reform that can last for many years. The perspectives in this case are great. It affects us in important stages of life that we have a living people's church. The temperature of the debate will be high, but I think it will be an accident for us if the solution we choose is more marked by conflict than consensus, and more marked by division than consensus. Let me also say that I have the sense of what the president himself has said to the media today, that before you decide whether to have a referendum, you might have to decide whether to have a change, and what changes you actually want to have a referendum on. The government's goal is to maintain a Norwegian church that is open, liberal and inclusive. Such a living and open church must relate to the society of which it is a part. It is a daily and persistent requirement for the Church, and it must not be put on hold pending any major state church reform. It is a work that must be ongoing. The current and close challenges for the Church are many. The buildings, church maintenance, are perhaps one of the greatest. We announced in the Soria Moria Declaration that we need to contribute more to the maintenance of the medieval churches, and I also believe that a significant strengthening of the municipal economy will be a contribution to maintaining many church buildings around the country. The reform of faith training in Norwegian churches was launched in 2004, and the Government is fully following up what the previous government also proposed by additions. Until next year, the Norwegian Church will have nearly 75 million. SEK at the disposal of religious training, and the other religious communities also benefit from the same. We want to continue working on the reform work on the performance service/proteem. Here I am pleased that the committee also agrees to that. In the budget position, critical remarks are made on the cuts in the ecclesiastical councils. It has to be seen in the context of the significant increase given to municipalities, and many municipalities have also made sure to use some of it for church purposes. The grant scheme for privately owned church buildings is also affected in this budget. But I would like to stress that this is a modest amount of money compared to the total cost of private church buildings. In this sense, I don't think it gets any special significance, a change in the conditions of the different religious communities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e974	As the Council of State explained in its statement, the Government cuts down on several areas within the Church, and in particular on the local church activity. It's very regrettable, because we're in a situation where you've been working on improving local church democracy, and it's a vulnerable activity, because the Church is where people are when they're out. It is the activity of the ecclesiastical councils that is important in this respect. And then the council says that one has to see the cuts in connection with the municipalities getting more money. But it is not that more money for the municipalities also brings more money to the church councils. So the Council of State assumes that the municipalities should give priority to this as the Council of State will, and he has no guarantee at all. In addition, the state church system is under review. We have a message in the Committee on the Financing of the Public Church. Then I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is not that one should not cut and modify the grant schemes for the Church, pending these important matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e981	Let me first say that there is a touching concern for an earmarked grant scheme from a batch that has removed earmarked grant schemes in other areas, for example. school leisure arrangements, cultural schools, etc. This must be seen in the context of the framework with which the municipalities actually have. In the leading party, Oslo proposed a 16 million cut in the church economy for the City Council parties Right and the Advance Party. kr. So they just suggested a bigger cut in Oslo than the $10 million. Let's cut the land. But after you got a red-green government, it turns out that in Oslo, thanks to the local economy, you get a dramatically larger framework to distribute. The result of the Oslo budgetary procedure was that such a large cut was not implemented. So only in Oslo have the framework of the community economy gained a more positive impact on the church economy than the overall cut that we have made on the earmarked arrangement of the Church Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e988	I want to start with something I don't always do, namely to give the State Council Trond Gaze praise. It's simply because of the signals that have come from a referendum on church and state. It has proved to be some disagreement within the government parties and internally within the Workers' Party, but I see the signals coming from the Council of State being clear and good. The church is, as I also mentioned in my main post, in a quite exciting phase now. There's a lot going on, and a lot is going to happen in the near future, and a lot is about the relationship between state and church. One of the main priorities that has been mentioned by up to several is that the Church should remain open and inclusive, and that there should be a people's church to which more can apply. Then I think it's strange that the government does it cut it off when it comes to the Church Council. The Council of State would like to believe that the increased municipal economy and the framework are what is needed to increase church activity in the municipalities, but the reality is that this is 11 million. kr as the churches had. So now they're going to fight for budgetary resources along with many other good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e996	I cannot give any other answer than what I gave. But compared to the Progress Party, the Right's position is actually even more amazing, because the Progress Party is often too strong, state-owned, earmarked schemes. As a matter of principle, the right has to remove these earmarked grant schemes and make out the money. In the field of education in particular, almost all earmarked grants shall be removed and given as a free framework to the municipalities. That's exactly what happens in relation to the church councils. If you get $6 billion more in municipal budgets and you lose $10 million. I think most of the rapporteurs are quite satisfied with that. But then to this with a referendum and a state church. I'm glad that the representative from the Right also signals the willingness to find a broad solution, because here we have to find a solution that so to speak the whole population can gather around. It's important to us that we have a people's church that works for most people, while respecting the different minorities in a society. Then we have to agree to find broad solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1003	I also belong to those who are pleased that the Council of State Gieske wants to seek broad alliances in the matter of state and church, and I will also join in the praise that has been given for the signals that we will do this without a referendum and the process that may result from it. State Council Giske drew the long lines in the development of reform work in the Norwegian Church. It is important that it continues towards even greater self-determination in the Norwegian Church. My question is on a verge, as the Council of State also mentioned, namely the proste reform. What is now said, and which can be a difficult point – it is also going on in the Church’s economy – is that one has not been able to fill up with the necessary administrative resources to make this reform successful. There is nothing to load the new government more than the old one. That's not why I'm saying it, but it's a little bit about the future. The need to use local services from local communities to strengthen the administration of the prosthetics cannot be an appropriate scheme. I would therefore ask the Council of State to respond to what he will do to secure administrative resources for the prostems, so that it does not go beyond the local communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1012	I fully agree with Mr Lånke's representative. To the extent that one succeeds in reforming, one must also be willing to invest. On the school side, it may have been seen that some of the reforms are actually slowed down by the fact that the economy is becoming so demanding that teachers and principals in School-Norway become conservative because they want to preserve what they have. So is the Church. Some resources need to be used to make reforms work, and to strengthen, among other things. the administrative resources around the prosteem, so that there can be real leaders in a prosti. There are also signs that the different clergyman, to the extent that they are stripped for the administrative resources he or she has, can become a little lonely – like satellites – and lose the environment they have. Here we really have to try and fail a little, I think, try to succeed and then learn from what's going well, and then get it done. There could also be some savings. We see that in individual municipalities there are theme churches. The mountains are far on the way to creating their own youth community, a separate congregation with different themes. It turns out that the flow to the Church is increasing, and that resources are being used better, so there can also be a good deal to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1019	The state councils have a thoughtful view of the state church. Then I don't think he should use the chance to run a little bit of polemics around earrings, because we have a state church that in practice has also become a municipal church in terms of funding. The grant to the church councils has been some of the small but important means that have created predictability — not rather the funds that are being fought for locally but that have created predictability. So I think that, with the line he now stands for – that we should have a wise process about the Church of State and about the Church of People – this system should be assessed in such a perspective. I encourage it. As far as the situation in Oslo is concerned, of course, as the representative of the Left, I am pleased with a cross-political hierarchy for the budgetary agreement concluded between the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progressive Party. It fixed something that was not possible for the Church in Oslo, and I am pleased about that. Finally, I would like to commend the Council of State, as I have done in the past, so that we can have a reflected debate on the Church of State. The left is for a split, but we want a reflected debate, and we want elected representatives to take responsibility. I think, and the Left believes that a referendum will seem unfortunate and very polarising.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1028	In the case of the 10 million. kr to the Church Council, I will first apologise for saying that I was not the one who started the polemics. I responded to an attack, but I think you have to be able to use the same basic assessments for earring/not ringing here as in other areas. In fact, at the time the State grant to the Church Council was introduced, it was meant to be a transitional arrangement, because the state's responsibility for the Church's economy is primarily on priests' and prosthetics' salaries, not on local church work and community councils. As for the Church of State, let me say, since I have some extra time, for here we should debate and get going as quickly as possible – that included in such work it must not only be that the Church of State should be considered in the Constitution, in a church law or in a law of faith society, but it must also be a question of how the governance structure of the church we may move from one law to another should be, what the Constitutional Paragraph on Governmental Composition etc. should be, and what the purpose paragraph of school and other things should be, as a consequence of all the major changes we make. We need a comprehensive debate based on principles and good practical solutions for people's everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1035	I think the answer to my first line was very grateful, because there the council confirmed exactly what I said. The municipalities are cutting completely regardless of what the Council of State thinks they should do. He even used a concrete example to show that the municipalities are cutting, even if they get more money. So then my question is the same: what does the Council of State think he achieves by cutting off the local church activity, and by reducing part of the foreseeable funding? The challenge here is that you've been counting on this money for a long time. This is part of the predictable financing of local activity, and then the council itself shows with an example that the municipalities do not follow up, regardless of who rules. We could probably find a lot more examples of the exact same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1042	I don't think the representative came all the way to the end of my post. My point was that in Oslo, there was a But how could you stop this cut? Well, because you got millions of extras from the red-green government. If we had not received a change of government, one would have been very quick to sit with it cut. But thanks to increased framework transfers, Oslo also received more money for school, more money for church, more money for care for the elderly than you would otherwise have. It's this big money that counts. The small earmarked grants to the Church Council, which is actually contrary to the principle of the sharing of expenditure between the State and the municipality, mean in this way very little in relation to the municipal framework. The same is true of school. It does not help to talk about quality in school, if the municipalities around Norway do not have the money to implement it. The churches, church upgrading, having heat in the churches in winter, and having youth work or deacony are primarily dependent on the community economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1051	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1054	We are discussing the future today. Education and research policy is the very foundation of future well-being. The world is a cool place to be. In the long term, there is little to protect us from saying yes to the challenges and meeting the competition by being better than others. It is the school and research that provide the main basis for the success of Norway in the future. Globalisation makes tough demands. Changeover is not pleasant, but Norwegian enterprises are living with the requirements for conversion all the time. Quality of education, the quality of research and the stimulation of individuals to do their best within their own frameworks are important prerequisites for success. The Bondevik Cooperation Board focused on knowledge and quality requirements in education. The skill level gave the school more resources, new curricula, quality control systems through national tests and signalled clear demands for teachers and students. As a father of four children, all of whom are soon finished in primary school, I have to admit that I wanted national tests earlier. The public school worked perfectly for three of them, but for the fourth, the beginning was almost a disaster. We had nothing to point out at the time, the school met us with disappointments, but a national test would have revealed total failure. The family spent quite a lot of time and resources correcting a misguided school policy. Other students did not receive that support, and the problems followed the class. A good public school is everyone's goal, but weakening qualifications, performance requirements and requirements for students and teachers is not the prescription that the nation needs. It provokes the hearing of the Djupedal Council of States of a ‘diversity’ and ‘intriguing common school’ when there is diversity he stops. Why then fear the diversity that students and parents can choose for themselves? A good public school also needs to be corrective in the form of alternative offers through fresh schools. This will ensure that the public school tightens up. In Norway only approx. 2 pst. by the pupils in fresh schools. This is very low and can currently hardly be called a real corrective. The strupping of the boarding schools is therefore incomprehensible. Norway is facing major challenges on the research front. We are far from the objective of the 3 pst research report. of GDP for research. In view of the scale of the challenge and how central it is to the future well-being of Norway, it is almost impossible to believe that the government of Stoltenberg has reduced the transfers to the Research Fund by DKK 25 billion. The Minister of Knowledge has placed a real challenge in his own penal field before next year's government budget. Compensating 900 million. research crowns in competition with kindergartens in 2007 will be tough at best. Achieving the objective of research efforts will be a challenge. Business and ownership in Norway already pay a lot of the harvest's profits in the local economy. Business and owners will have to be willing to pay even more in the future, that's the signals. How should the research share of industry be reached when the Government systematically discriminates against Norwegian capital in Norway, and is responsible for a deterioration in the formation of capital through significantly higher taxation? The publishing activity is on a strong upward trend at Norwegian research institutions – that's good. The funding model appears to produce the desired effects. It is a step on the way, but many research environments will have to process strong mental barriers if they are to be attractive to a business that needs to make demands on the relevance of research in relation to a market. I have been a researcher myself for a few years, and there are few environments that both possess so much competence, and that also have such powerful driving forces against the strange and isolating as a research environment. The environments that succeed in creating productive contacts with business will form the basis for much of what we will live on in the years to come. Good incentives to stimulate business must be developed here. TaxFUNN is a nice start, but if the goal is to be achieved, it will probably have to thank you more strongly. I would therefore strongly warn against weakening the business participation requirement. Knowledge is the future. There's quite a broad consensus about that. Knowledge provides security, knowledge provides opportunities, and knowledge provides individual space for action. The school's task is to provide individuals with the best possible platform for the future on the basis of the individual's assumptions. We don't do that by forcing everyone into the same form, but we do it by setting clear goals for the individual, but otherwise give a great degree of freedom as to how the goal is to be achieved. When the Minister of Knowledge signals weakened demands, he makes Norway, the students, the school and the research a bear service. I hope he quickly comes up with better thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1073	When the new government took over, it was constantly repeated that we came to the covered table. It can be discussed to the greatest extent possible. The economy is good, there is little doubt about it, but the question is how much it is due to the policies of the previous government, or whether it is due to outside conditions. Part of the table was covered, but who has covered the table, is more questionable. Other parts of the table did not look very tidy and neat. A four-year tax relief and privatisation party sets its mark. There's a lot to clean up. We're doing the cleaning job, and it'll take time to fix the new table, a table that's going to be covered in a different way than the previous one, and not least everyone's going to have space around the new table. In addition, the menu shall be changed. Main rights shall no longer be privatisation and tax relief, but welfare and justice. One of the most important areas of the new policy menu is knowledge for all. After four years of starvation of municipalities and counties, a significant increase is needed. Extra 5.7 billion for the municipal sector next year means more money for school. In my home municipality, Arendal, I know for sure that some of the extra funds will be used to strengthen the school. It's high time. Too tight a framework over several years has gone at the expense of quality in school. It is with interest that I note the debate in the Chamber today, where the representatives of the former government parties are more concerned with discussing millions than discussing the billion-dollar promise for the municipalities. It reminds me of the football team that consistently sends everyone in attack. It's not always the same trick. Education policy is also about social views. We in the Workers' Party want everyone to have space around this table. Education policy is about making everyone a winner. The need for economic frameworks and privatisation makes it more difficult, not to say impossible. It is therefore important to bet in primary schools. Within the framework of the single school, we can make it possible to see each individual’s needs and to facilitate the use of each individual student’s abilities and talents. We are therefore pleased that we are now going through the law with regard to private schools. That doesn't mean we're going to ban everything that's not public, but we need to go up a line for what's commercial schools, and what can be said to be pedagogical and religious alternatives. There has been strong growth in the number of private, commercial schools since the adoption of the new law by the former government and the Progress Party. The consequences are particularly evident in high school. District schools are threatened by closure, vocational schooling can be closed down, and we may risk that a few places, such as in my home country of East-Agder, will not receive any schools that can provide a complete and wide range of services in the preparatory directions. This type of liberalisation and misunderstanding of the idea of freedom may result in less freedom for many and in education policies that are less in line with the needs of business. Other consequences of the increasing commercialisation of the education sector may be that a sedentary and increase social disparities. In our opinion, such a development threatens the very support of our welfare system, that everyone should have the same opportunities regardless of their background. We've seen and seen that commercial actors, like, for example. the Swedish school chain John Bauer, put a heavy strain on establishing itself in Norway. The opposition seems to believe that private actors like John Bauer will establish themselves in Norway without being able to make money in school. I guess it's a bit credulous to think that commercial players are only interested in helping us get the best possible education system, without getting anything back in terms of financial profit. Another feature of these establishments is that little or no interest has been shown by these operators in establishing professional offers. It looks like the commercial school players are most interested in foaming the cream, and then the public gets to take care of the rest of the school offer and what's more demanding. We in the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Center Party, have high ambitions in knowledge policy. The Soria Moria statement puts the list high, but we're sure we'll get to the goal. We want to strengthen Norway as a knowledge nation, and therefore we want to give priority to education policy as part of the welfare promise, which we now so badly need after four years of right-wing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1090	First I want to mention that in St.meld. No 20 for 2004–2005, Will for Research, Norway is expected to become a leading international leader in new technologies, competences and knowledge. Here the list has been raised. It's for good reason, because this is the future of Norway as a nation and for all the children's Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen talks so much about. Knowledge and capital intensive industries will be the key to continuing Norway’s prosperity after the oil age. Therefore, structural and system changes are necessary to increase the level of learning outcomes within the education system and to increase research and development efforts. Reducing the growth of the research and development fund by DKK 25 billion compared to previous proposals is evidence of a lack of willingness to research in the coming years. Although this does not have a direct impact on the budget for 2006, this will mean a cut in the amount of research for 2007. 900 million. kr, and that the long-term consequences will be considerably greater. This weakens the security that we will be able to achieve the stepping-up target of 3 pst. GDP. When the 2007 rate of return is changed, the acceleration target must be achieved through a similar regular budgetary increase. Because, in fact, there are areas in the State budget that should ideally have been adopted for a longer period, just to get long-termity and predictability into the decisions. I am fully aware of the department's fear of raising capital, but then such a view does not serve the case. Research cannot only be switched on and off according to the political views and positions of the various governments. Research from private business is particularly cyclical and therefore becomes more damaging when research and development should have gone too far. The expectations of the private research share are so high that it cannot be considered realistic. The public contribution to the research effort should therefore be increased to 1,4 pst. of GDP and the private share is reduced to 1.6 pst. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is important to focus on research sectors that take less into account regional policy considerations and take more into account quality criteria for the allocation of research funds. State funds injected into research are allocated slightly to ‘geographical-democratic’ and not sufficiently according to quality criteria. Furthermore, Norway is part of something larger. One could wish for an even stronger Nordic interaction, so that in the Nordic region as a whole we will become more competitive in the fight for the best researchers and also the European research funds. It is not right to risk Norway becoming just a stallion. Another challenge for research is that it has now been added to a department and a government council that already has many other heavy expenditure posts, and we can probably already now understand the outlines of a new kindergarten policy where the unofficial schooling is soon at the age of three. The fact that there is a reduced freedom of choice for parents, where there are only kindergartens that are the only one, and where the state grants its financial support only to those who follow up this socialist thinking, becomes very problematic to me. If you don't want one, you're gonna have to! For to what extent does anyone have the right to distribute our common goods only to one option, namely kindergarten? I fully agree that there must be enough nursery places to provide this option, but it will be completely wrong when parents who choose another solution are seen as less worthy of support and as ‘raddles’ who will not leave their children in kindergarten from morning to evening. There are many children, all of whom, most of all, needed what they get least of, namely, proximity and plenty of time from their closest. It has been very strange to hear from the Council of State over the past few weeks. We've been around everything from parents who aren't suitable for raising children, limited language training, tablecloths about small birds, and now most recently that fresh schools are a udder. To say that as a real southerner: what is he doing? Nils Arne Egg once said so strikingly: when everyone is leveled in the name of similarity, they don't get the same size but the same size. So rather the councils get to drive the mountain and valley tracks with their children. Me and mine want to drive a carousel.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1114	Students throughout the country should rejoice after Norway has received a new student-friendly government. Our government statement contains a commitment to student welfare: The study aid should no longer be a balancing item. Students must be supported more strongly, both professionally and financially. Full-time study shall be possible and access to student accommodation shall be increased. I expect the opposition to give a different picture. I would like to stress that this government has had 24 days to rectify the fatal cuts of the Bondevik II government over the last four years. Much has been corrected, and much remains. It takes more than one month to turn Education Norway, but we have definitely got a new course. Based on what we see today, we've taken one step in the right direction, and it's going to be more than just one step. The previous government had added up to a cut of 20 million. kr to the student children's gardens. The majority in the committee left 10 million. kr after clear signals from student organisations and in order to prevent price increases and poorer offers. The new government has set up 500 new teaching places. The new government wants to promote decentralised education, and this helps to improve education opportunities for the inhabitants of the districts. The availability of highly skilled labour by municipalities and industry is also increasing. In addition, the previous government had dropped out of study places and study directions that have now been saved. This shows that we've taken another step in the right direction. The Progress Party manages the trust in 22.1 pst. by the population, in addition to being ombudsmen and women of the Norwegian people. In the budget option, I wonder whether the Progress Party has forgotten that they have such a role. In 2005, they actually cut the education budget by DKK 1.1 billion. I want to challenge the Advance Party in some areas. In the budget configuration, the Progress Party goes into the process of removing all aid to co-operate. Do they really think that Norway is only for the Nordics and not for the Sami and other ethnic minorities? Norway was originally established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmann. Both peoples have and shall have the same right and the same requirement to develop their culture, their social life and their language. Samemen must have a secure future in Norway. It is stated in our own constitution and in a treaty with international conventions that Norway has actually signed. The alternative budget of the Progress Party clearly reflects the views of the Progress Party on the regions. I quote: ‘The party sees clear concerns about having a decentralised higher education sector that exists in Norway.’ I want the representative Anundsen to explain what the party really thinks about the colleges and all those who go and train at these schools, and everyone who works at those schools, and not least the important role that college plays in regional business. Or is it that the Progress Party has one face on the Stortinget and one face out among the people most? Is the Progress Party a party for people most? Perhaps the Advancement Party believes that people should not live in the districts? So to everything that's written about equality. The gender equality centre, which the Progress Party, for the rest, has wanted to close down, just came up with a report that confirms that we do not have equality in our society. I'm questioning how one of Norway's largest parties can claim that we have full equality. Today we have a sex-segregated labour market, and we see more and more people choosing traditional women's and men's professions. Few young boys choose to train as preschool teachers. There is an overrepresentation of women in the preschool profession, and there are increasing numbers of women in primary and secondary school. We in the Labour Party are concerned about this development. That should also concern the Progress Party. We believe that the advisory service is important in this work. It is also important for young people to be better offered career guidance. We hope that we can do something about the sex-shared working life. The red-greens put equality on the agenda. I hope the representative from the Progress Party can give me answers to these questions. Is it so that the Progress Party has one face outside and one on the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1141	It was a shame that I came right after the previous talk, so she will get an answer to the question immediately: no! The representative Huitfeldt has said that the Government should base its policy and base it on «professional advice». She presented it in the introduction as if it were something new, that is, that previous governments haven't done it. I could actually imagine challenging the government in relation to what professional advice you've been listening to, when you want to give everyone the right to general study competence, when you choose not to introduce another mandatory foreign language, or only prioritize teacher's density in Norwegian school. In the budgetary hearing that we had in the past, academics expressed some frustration in relation to this with general study competence. A little freely quoted, they said something such as that the Nordics are not only born with skis on their legs, now they are born with general study competence. I think that a little bit of the problem is that you now see that there are several professional environments that think there are many frustrating developments in the policy that Anniken Huitfeldt here says should be based on professional advice – not on politics, but on professional advice. And it's interesting to notice. The representative, Inger Enger, strongly stated from this chair that the Progress Party is opposed to local self-government. That, of course, is not right. The Progress Party is too local self-government, but we believe it is important that some welfare tasks should be the same for everyone, no matter where you live. I find it strange that the representative, Mr Enger, does not agree with this. She strongly rejected the fact that some municipalities used this money incorrectly. That's a strong statement, and I'll take it with me until later when we get examples of how the funds are used in the municipalities. Most municipalities certainly choose very correctly, but there are some municipalities that will give priority to things other than school and care, such as large cultural buildings. I also register that the Council of State Djupedal refuses to respond to my two replies to the Council of State. He has still not said how much he expects to save on this exemption law he is now going to promote. I am asking for that answer, because I think it is right that the Stortinget is informed about how many kroner the Council of State believes this exemption law will prevent a user from using it. So the council also uses a term that I'm reacting to a little bit. He says he should stop this "uncontrolled growth of fresh oils". But it is well that there are quite strict criteria for being recognized as a high school. There are strong control procedures and the growth is not uncontrolled. It is on the contrary in line with the intent of the Storting. And I expect the Council of State to follow up that law, to continue the treatment of post-school applications, until the Storting has decided otherwise. It is simply about respect for the legislative assembly. So the Workers' Party says that fresh oils contribute to increasing differences. Now a number of Swedish studies show that this is wrong. They don't show that there's going to be any major differences. In addition, it turns out that England now wants a more progressive education system, where they want to refresh the model that we have in Norway today, with strong public funding. What's the motive for them wanting to do that? So there's the working party. The motive is that they will strengthen the public school. There the working party believes that the primary schools will strengthen the public school. Why doesn't the Labour Party believe the same thing here? I could imagine recommending the Workers' Party group a study trip to England, so maybe they'd get it with them. The representative de Ruiter says that the Government believes that ‘all should have the same possibilities regardless of background’. I think everyone in this room thinks so. Then it's strange that the government is now introducing a system where it gets very crowded for those who want to go to a private school. Now they have to pay for that service themselves. Today they can choose a boarding school and cover 85 pst. of the costs. The government wants to deprive them of the opportunity, and that's very regrettable. It is sad that the Labour Party-dominated government is going up and down in the darkness of education policy. Because you go back too many steps without looking back, it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1160	My attitude to questions and political challenges is that I should be humble and listening, and I will be as inclusive as possible when making decisions. I have asked for the floor today to link some comments to the part of the budget that concerns the Church. In a budget debate, it's a matter of course that a lot is about money and numbers, but I want to have an eye on what's behind the numbers and try to see the whole. That's why I'm a little surprised when the majority government is characterised as an intolerant, and as punishing them a bit, with the background of the proposals that are being adopted today. These are strong words that I would have been very careful to use, and where the effect can quickly become like throwing a stone in a glass house. Actually, I don't know who I am. Let me say the following: A very important factor for the Church is how the economy is in the municipalities around the country. I have noticed that the Church meeting in connection with the State budget has highlighted the need for increased resources for the Norwegian Church and the local churches in particular. It is quite well known that the local economy has not been particularly fragile in recent years, but we cannot remove the local anchoring and the local responsibility of the municipalities also has for questions and priorities for the Church. Then many will probably replicate that someone is trying to hide behind this, and that there are limits to what municipalities can do. That's right. Therefore, we all now note that there is a significant promise that must be made to bring the economy into line with the welfare tasks that municipalities are expected to produce. I am pleased that we are now giving much more money to the municipalities, money that enables local politicians to prioritise differently from what they have been able to do in the past. It is true that the general development of the community economy is naturally reflected in the church economy. The King stated in connection with the deployment of the new bishop in Borg that the Bishop's service has many features in common with football. The keyword is to facilitate interaction and interaction and do each other good. This can also be transferred to the role of municipalities towards the Church. In addition, there is now a notice of the Church's economy, St.meld. No 41 for 2004–2005, on the table for treatment. This gives a clear description of the economy of the local churches, the nature of the church buildings and how to manage the Information Society's fund. One of the important tasks that the Church has, and that the Storting has gathered behind, is the training of faith. Here we are in the start-up phase of a test and development base where there are considerable funds available. The project is about cleaning dust off what it means to be a church. It's about sharing experiences with each other and helping each other to become good together, as others have said before me. This, of course, follows the majority government in a reassuring way. I notice that there are expectations as to what the State Church Committee, or the Gehönnes Committee, will come after New Year's. I have so far flagged no point of view in this matter of respect for the work done, and of respect for the processes that should be initiated in advance of a final decision. But there is no doubt that this matter in itself is not simple, in the sense that we are not just challenged to take a stand for a distinction between church and state. There is no doubt either that this case can also appear divisive in different environments. That is why, like the Minister of the Church, I am committed to establishing a debate in the population that makes the decision-making base the best possible. At the bottom it is stated that the Norwegian Church is still to be an open and inclusive people's church with room for different religious needs and different theological directions. The Church shall invite people to believe and community and be a value bearer that contributes to the strengthening of local communities, human dignity and international solidarity. How to ensure this in the best way is in front of us to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1186	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1189	The main premiscuous provider of Norwegian education policy has been the OECD for the last four years and is known to be established by the OECD for things other than educational policy. Through various comparative studies, they have now tried to draw a picture of the Norwegian school as something we do not succeed with. Through different measurable criteria, we have drawn a picture of Norwegian school where students generally score on average. This is an expression of the fact that positivism has once again become rooted in Norwegian educational policy debate. We had the same debate for approx. Twenty years ago. At the time, philosopher Hans Schirvheim took a violent settlement with positivism and its way of trying to take out what could be measured, and make an attempt to measure it all, most of all. We have received the Model Plan of 1974, the Pattern Plan of 1987, Reform 94 and the Apprenticeship Plan of 1997. All these curricula shattered essential principles, and the most important principle is that students have to adapt to training. It is the starting point for Norwegian education and the Norwegian school. Students shall be seen, in classroom and school training, taking into account individual life assumptions and backgrounds, and students shall receive close follow-up. These are the objectives and principles laid down in our curricula. Ten years ago we got an evaluation of R94, and we've had an evaluation of L97. There were extensive, research-based evaluations where we put a lot, a lot of money. The evaluation of R94 concluded that we succeed in making structural changes, but that we do not get enough content change. They pointed to two things: the textbook and the exam system, which in many ways seem to be governing, and which makes us unable to succeed in the content changes. The evaluation of L97 is a research-based evaluation – where we spent over 30 million. kr – which concludes that we do not succeed with adapted training. That's the challenge, and that's really what we should have discussed. It is the research-based evaluation that is the basis for creating a better school, and not the premises that the OECD has made in our education system, which have been the governing force for the debate in many ways. The challenge will be to have a debate on our own premises and on the basis of our own curricula on how the Norwegian education system will succeed, how we will get to the Norwegian school. We have gained a lot of knowledge about this through these evaluations. That is really what should be the background for the debate. I sincerely hope – and I think so too – that over the next four years we will have a different type of debate, and that it is not positivism that will once again form the basis of the educational policy debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1209	I am pleased to note that the majority of the committee has joined the board's call to ask the government to look into the study offer at Akershus University. This is a note that will be well received at the University of Akershus and throughout Rome. The University of Akershus has long traditions, but was established in 2003 in the municipality of Kjeller in Skedsmo. Here the university was placed in one of the fastest growing areas in the country, because the growth both in the municipality of Skedsmo and in the whole of Rome is growing rapidly. This is a growth that will continue due to the central and unique location of this area. The majority of the committee points out in its note the unique location of the University of Akershus, and that this needs to be exploited for the best of the students and for the local area. Higher education is established in the middle of one of the most competent knowledge environments in the country, by the fact that several of the country's leading research environments are in close proximity to higher education. Institutions like the Defence Research Institute, the Institute of Energy Engineering and the Norwegian Institute of Air Research are located at Kjeller and are some of the most solid institutes we have here in the country. These are institutions that have a huge amount of knowledge capital. In addition, the Defence Logistics Organisation, the Scandpower Group and parts of the Kongsberg Group are established in the same area. It is therefore very strange that the University of Akershus does not offer studies directly related to the fields in which these research institutions work. Today, higher education offers subjects in product design, protection, nursing, social education and ICT. These are useful and important studies. But it would be possible to make significant social gains by connecting a college like this and outstanding research environments together in order to create a unique study offer, not just national, but a study offer that could be an international one. I know that both the University of Akershus and the research institutions have a lot of good thoughts about the possibilities for doing this. What is needed now is political will, ability and focus to achieve better interaction. With this majority comment that has now been adopted in the budgetary position, it is expected that the Government will follow this up so that cooperation can be established quickly. A country that likes to call itself a knowledge nation cannot organise itself in a way that does not exploit the knowledge it has, for the benefit of both students and the country. Let's not have to make similar posts in a year, but hope that in the coming year we can get something happening, that the processes are now going to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1226	The Bondevik government often highlighted its efforts to put the northern areas on the agenda. With this in mind, many people are amazed that the same government in its draft budget proposed cutting off important maritime education in the north. I refer you to the proposal to cut out the nautical education at the University of Tromsø – the only one in its battle in North Norway. This school has invested a lot in order to provide good training in the profession, and no one understands that this subject was proposed for a time when so much attention was focused on the north and the need for good maritime competence. I'm glad that the majority of the vote has corrected this again. I also noticed that the announced appropriations for the famous research station MIT-FabLab Norway in Lyngen in Troms were also not included by the government of Bondevik. I even attended the opening of this amazing station in August this year. At the opening there were already researchers and students from more than 30 nations. I am very pleased that the bulk of the population also found a good solution in this case, and that the station is now being ensured operation in the important start-up year they are now entering. I hope that work will begin as soon as possible to find lasting solutions to this important measure, so that it can be developed in line with the plans. The Committee calls for cooperation solutions between the University of Tromsø and the University of Agder on aeronautical training. The Bardufoss Air School was established in 1992 and has been referred to as the world’s best aviation school from a professional point of view. All the time it has been working for a more predictable operation, but investigations are still ongoing. I fear that this important education offer is now at risk if clarifications do not come quite quickly. Therefore, the investigation work needs to be carried out, and I believe that the clarification needs to be made in good time before the revised national budget 2006, so that the offer can be continued without any problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1235	This fall has the red-green sent many verbal collaborations, especially to the Christian People's Party. Practically-politically this is not followed up. On the contrary, there are strong provocations in areas that mean a lot to the Christian People's Party, among others. in the freshle area. The last one was the crash stop that was announced yesterday, where the realization of the adopted freshular was stopped. In the budget we are discussing today, there is a special NLA, the leather ball in Bergen, which is being reviewed. First came a red-green cut of 1.5 million. kr from the Government. So, in the committee treatment, there was an additional 2 million cuts. kr from those with the same batch colours. It's not cheese-happy, no it's focused on a highly competent and well-trained private high-spherical that the red-green obviously have problems escaping life's rights. It is not surprising that they are added to an open letter of the 12th of this month: ‘We get the feeling that we’re not valued, yes, that we’re unwanted between people with power and money bags.’ [[...]] Further type: «Some may think that we run some kind of advanced Sunday school here in Bergen. But we are an educational institution with public-approved plans, which every year graduate at the lower end of 100 general teachers and 50 pre-school teachers, as well as providing further education.’ Towards the end of the message write they added: ‘We would like central politicians, and locals, to accept the invitation to come and greet us and see how we run our education.’ [[...]] I hope that red-green representatives, both in bulk and in government, will accept this open invitation. Cut at 3.5 million. NOK is 15 pst. of the school's accumulated base bill. We do not need any particular academic knowledge to understand the principal's heartache that this implies expressions such as both 'dramatic' and 'permanent'. Now a lot of excitement comes with a red-green clearance: will this devastating cut of NLA, the teacher's high ball, be fixed up late in the revised national budget, or is this really an example of cutting off an unwanted private high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1264	At the bottom of the debate, there are a few issues in this budgetary position that deserve a little extra attention. Not big things, but the more important for them. One is the $1 million allocation. kr to the Fossum Collective in Spydeberg. For those who don't know what the prossum collective is, I can tell you that it's a treatment facility for young drug addicts who are being treated under coercion. The government parties in Stortinget, Arbeiderpartiet, SV and the Zenterpartiet, propose that the institution should receive 1 million. In 2006, young drug addicts living in the collective will continue to receive the school offer they have had at school for a number of years. It is quite alarming that the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left vote against such a proposal. With such an offer, these run-down youths build up to meet everyday outside the collective, filling up the gaps in their education before they start in high school. Since 2003, when they lost the fixed state aid, the fossil collective has been actively involved in the financing of the school. But the previous government was not willing to grant funds to anyone other than the Tyril Foundation. The fossil collective got nothing, even though it's comparable institutions. That is why it is good that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have cleaned up. I think we have to take inwards that such institutions must have a school offer, and that the primary school of the building or the secondary school is not the option from day one. This is why the Ministry has also realised that a new scheme needs to be in place, hopefully as early as 2007. The second issue is support for the study associations. The study associations are doing a very good job. Not least they do a good job for those sitting at the bottom of the table, and we should worry more about these. It is therefore important that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, ask the Government to follow developments closely and return to the revised national budget if it appears that developments are becoming negative for these groups. Finally, the Chairman of the Committee pointed out very strongly in his statement that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left's education budget were 70 million. kr higher than the Government. What Eriksen's representative forgot was that the municipalities and county councils have received almost NOK 4 billion more than what her government proposed. A large part of this will go to school and education. That's 70 million. kr small money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1281	Multiplicity does not mean freedom to promote false claims in the staging room. I just want to be briefly allowed to correct a manifest misunderstanding from Huitfeldt's representative. Kristin Clemet and Right have never suggested cutting basic education by one year. On the contrary, Kristin Clemet was outside before the staging message was presented and informed that it was an out-of-date policy. It was discussed in the Quality Committee of which Anniken Huitfeldt himself was part, but it was never promoted as a proposal. The second is that Kristin Clemet has never promoted curriculums for history. That's what the Education Directorate is doing, and they're doing it in draft form. That should be the end of the debate. The desire to choose something other than the public school should be a fundamental right for all students and parents in this country. We tried to do something about it when we introduced a law of high school, which allowed everyone, regardless of their parents' economic background, to choose something different from the public school. That's what the new government is now obviously turning its legs under. I have to say that I was provoked when I saw the Minister of Knowledge on TV 2 last night, who, on a direct question at the press conference, is expected to do what the 40 schools that have now been approved but have been withdrawn, when they have begun to comply with the decision that has been taken. Then the Council of State stood and laughed and said that there is a risk of setting itself up by decision. To be honest, it shall not be a risk to comply with public decisions taken in accordance with approved laws. And how would they know that the bill came yesterday? As I said earlier, it was announced in the supplementary proposal that there would be a bill in the spring of 2006. It was not notified that an emergency law was due on 13 December 2005. It was not notified in a letter to the Committee, nor was it notified in the order of the governing parties of the Committee. I have recorded that in the evening post today it is an interview with Liv Greli, which is the prime engine at the dance institute Spin Off. Greli comes to the interview with the following statements: ‘I called the Legal Department of the Education Directorate on Friday before the government change. They said to me that as long as my approval was made before the government change, nothing could go back on it”. I wonder what has changed since then? That's why I see it as necessary to ask the question again, and as committee chairman, I expect the Council of State to give me an answer: why did not the Council of State inform Stortinget, either in the supplementary position, in the financial debate or in the form of letters, of the urgent decision that was presented yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1304	There is a lot of exciting happening at the University of Buskerud by day. There is good access to students, and the University Department of Drama moves from corridors and bombs to split new premises in December next year. The knowledge park Paperbreadden is the name, and the location at Drammenselven and the collaboration with Handelshochskolan BI and other actors will make this a very attractive place of study. This is a promise we need for higher education in Buskerud. And we really need a lift. Buskerud has the lowest number of study places in the country per year. The population, and Drammen is one of the largest cities in Norway with the lowest number of students. Everything is now ready for growth, and to give today's students and employees decent employment. In the election campaign there was a broad consensus on the need to give Drammen as a place of study a badly needed upgrade. Thorbjørn Jagland even wrote chronicles about this, and it was quite clear that the Workers' Party would follow this up when they got in position, if they did. It was therefore gratifying that the state budget for the next year provided additional household tenets for 2006, so that we could get started. The municipality of Drammen has for many years contributed funds at the existing place of study, and now the municipality has bought land and made provision for the Knowledge Park. I am therefore very pleased with the comment made by the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, where one asks the Ministry to assess the possibilities for a further increase in the rentals for 2007, so that the university can use the areas necessary to accommodate all the activities of the university in the Drammen. The reason why this signal is important now is that the university is the tenant of Entra Eiendom, and they need an assurance that the university will use and rent the premises they have expressed their wish. It is therefore disappointing that the government parties have not joined this note, especially when I see that the same parties have merged on a number of notes that address different relationships, including economic ones, at other colleges. I hope that Minister of Knowledge Djupedal will be able to get on the track quickly and give assurances that the University of Buskerud will be able to use the vacant areas of the new knowledge park in Drammen. There's a lot of positive happening in the Drammen right now, and a new knowledge park would be the crown of the work in the positive urban development we're now seeing. The university is perceived as a community-builder and has triggered a lot of good cooperation in the region of the drama. One example is that Drammen folk library, county library and university library have merged into a new common library in the new knowledge park. The International Cultural Centre is located the same place, as is the Union Scene and other exciting institutions. Now I hope that all the beautiful promises from the Workers' Party and SV in the election campaign will become something more than promises, and that the Government will signal full support for the Paper Width – The Drama Knowledge Park.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1315	Øystein Djupedal is Norway's first Minister of Knowledge. I wouldn't be surprised if he was going to be the last one too. I am not now thinking about the choice of title, because of course, any government council is free to choose the title he wants, but the design of his department is reflected in the budget in a way that is a serious threat to at least the higher education system in Norway and research in Norway. There is a lot of evidence that the Minister of Knowledge is going to have to use all his political power to fail to comply with the government's child-hooking promises and therefore will not have any political weight whatsoever to back up research policy and higher education policy. The most interesting thing in this debate is the discussion on the treatment of high schools. The council replied in a previous reply that there were no political assessments behind the cut that had been made. It was a purely statistical bureaucratic assessment that meant that the number of students in private schools was going to be much lower than expected. It is then difficult to understand how the same Council of State may find it necessary to establish standards in order to prevent a dramatic increase in the number of in-school and out-of-school schools. Here's something that's not hanging together, and I hope the Minister of Knowledge can clarify it. So far, the answers he has given are at least a clear symptom that he has not fulfilled his obligation to provide information in relation to the Storting, to say it carefully. The representative Huitfeldt declared unreservedly that countries with a high incidence of fresh air are the countries with the greatest social differences. She did not try to justify such an eye-catching claim, but it could be close to asking the representative Huitfeldt if she has ever visited Denmark, which is the Nordic country that sovereignly has the largest element of fresh oils, and has had it for decades. I have not recorded that the social differences in Denmark differ dramatically from those in Norway. If Anniken Huitfeldt has knowledge that makes it possible to substantiate the perceptive claim, she should share that knowledge with the rest of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1326	Before the Federal Council of State, Djupedal put a temporary stop to the establishment of private schools, it was approved that 22,000 new student places should be established. More than 1,300 of these were to be established in the town of Tromsø as secondary schools. Today, when I hear the overwhelming reaction and criticism, I am not surprised that it comes from the Right. But I'm a little surprised by the representative of Dørum, who belongs to a party, the Left, who talks about local democracy and self-determination. We know that Troms County fights with beaks and claws to prevent these places from being realized, because it would have fatal consequences for the school structure you have chosen in this county. These places would have led to the need to lay down at least two secondary schools in the district and many important and necessary courses of study. This would have narrowed the school offer. This applies not only to Troms, but many other states. I thought that this argument would concern the Left Party and even the Christian People's Party party. We have a new majority. We have a new government. There should be no doubt that the new government has knowledge of the driver’s seat. We're talking about quality in school, and we're talking about content. All parties talk about the teacher as the most important resource. Let's do something about that. In this budget, we have allocated 500 new places of study for teacher training, because we need more teachers, and because we need training and qualified and good teachers. The government has not had a long time on this budget. It is a budget based on the budget of the Bondevik government, but the changes that have been made show a new direction. The majority of the Committee has also made some changes. There are small sums that have moved, but it shows an important direction and an important priority. I just want to briefly mention someone. The Bondevik government proposed to cut 20 study places in the protection care training in Harstad. We have maintained these, and we have reduced the funds, so that education can continue. The University of Harstad has a special responsibility, and it's the only college in North Norway that has protective care education. They have decentralised the training of caregivers, and they are responsible for the whole of North Norway, from the Kirkenes to the Nord-Trøndelag. In the case of FabLab in Lyngen, we've found funds of 1.5 million. kr within the budget for operating grants. This is a new kind of research that we'll try out. We will be helping to look at research in new ways, a research that can also be established in the districts. This is an exciting project that we look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1343	I think the representative Jensen should have said that the new course is that everything should go away privately. This is perhaps the clearest signal after the Committee's review of the supplementary proposal. I would also like to comment on a little bit of Huitfeldt's claim that went on something like the logic of the right-hand school is that the worker's daughter has to go to private school to become a director. I think that's a quite horrific claim. It's an incredible logic to build a forward-looking school on. That's the one. We know that when it comes to funding the school, the money follows the students. The high schools that are not allowed to distribute dividends, and any good operation will be injected back into school by developing the school even better. What the rhetoric actually hides is that the government is afraid of the real diversity, and it is afraid of the real choice that individual students and parents can make. At least it's not to trust the public school. It's not to have confidence that the public school can compete. So who's really talking about having confidence in public school? I actually feel that it's right that does. We believe that we should have a strong public school that can live very well with a corrective from viable health schools. If we look at other countries, like Finland, we see that what Norway is doing is exactly the opposite. Norway and Finland have quite similar objectives of being among the most innovative countries in the world. But school in Finland is going the opposite way. It strengthens the requirements of competence, and it strengthens the real skills in particular. It is clear that Finland also achieves its objectives. It will be exciting to see Norway come out there, but it is beyond doubt that developing our human capital is crucial for Norway’s future as a welfare nation. It is not the Petroleum Fund that determines the standard of living in Norway in the future. We're not doing it the best way by developing theorized practitioners and professionally weak researchers. Public schools need corrective measures. In fact, other actors can develop methods, offers and solutions that the public school can use. I sincerely hope that perhaps you can get away from the rhetoric about the worker's daughter and rather focus on constructive solutions for a forward-looking and good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1356	Was it so that State Council Djupedal was given new information about the developments in free schools between 25 November and 13 December? Or was he given new information between the time of delivery in the Committee on 7 December and 13 December? Was this development unknown to the red parties that went to elections? Did it come as lightning from the clear sky? I ask directly, was there any new information about development? Was it the case that the estimated expenditure in 2006 for the 40 schools approved under known procedures, which had not started up, was part of the budget in the supplementaryproposal for 2006? If they were, it's interesting to get answers to that, because we've been asking if there's any of the things about the private schools that were going to be about the budget. We have been told that this is pure — let's say — numerically estimated changes based on actual developments. Then most of us will assume that it's about the rules of the game that are known, that people have dealt with, and that's a factual and calm answer. But we have to be able to expect, as members of a big committee, to get answers to these questions. So I'd like to add: yes, we have a majority government, and that's 20 years since we last had it, and yes, it's allowed to use political power, but it doesn't exempt from a minimum of how to act when dealing with the Storting. And the minimum is that if I as an opposition member hadn't asked these questions now, I wouldn't have had anything to do here. Similarly, a government, no matter how much power it has, has to deal with such a minimum. It should at least do so since it has flown so high from the jump with the Prime Minister that – I was saying – ski planes no. 1st@item: inlistbox You have to establish a clean, friendly and correct relationship. Or in popular Norwegian: it may be tough on factual issues where you disagree, but one should have a friendly and tidy relationship with the Stortinget. All these markings, both from the Prime Minister in his time, and from a number of government councils, including the Minister of Knowledge, indicate that those who are now asking questions, whether they are the head of the committee or me, are being answered. What happened that gave a new recognition of reality in Norway between 25 November and 13 December, even between 6 December and 13 December? And what about the 40 schools that were approved and that had reason to believe they were going to start? It's important for us who belong in this great hall, and in respect of this hall, that we get an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1365	Several of this year's harvest storms have been about the Minister of Knowledge's play. We've had a storm of bans on tables in school everyday, we've had a storm of parents' ability to take care of their children, and now we've had a storm of colleges. This last play to refuse legally approved fresh schools to start up as planned, in my view, testifies both to the lack of the necessary respect for parents, students and teachers, and to the lack of sense of the community-building work that civil society stands for in Norway. The response has also been unambiguous: a broad commitment by most people who want to have asked for this form of override. Parents have the right to choose alternative education for their children. This right isn't pulled out of the air. It's a human right. These are the rights that we as a nation and on which the National Assembly has committed ourselves, but such considerations obviously do not count heavily enough for the Council of State Djupedal. He has now shown that he is ready to put a line over established rights, to get his will. It's serious. These rights are not an unobligatory menu we can pick from in celebrations and on other appropriate occasions. They must ultimately be the governing force for our political work. Djupedal's grip on the boarding schools is an example of arbitrary exercise of power. State councils put their feet down for all the freshies, without any process in advance, without following common rules on how laws change in the country. In his formal communication with the Stortinget, he has even given the impression that the pending applications should be dealt with in accordance with common administrative principles. There is reason to recall, while at the same time asking for answers to the questions asked about information to the Stortinget, that majority governments are not a structure exempting government councils from the general obligation to provide information to the Stortinget. Most surprisingly, I find that the Minister of Knowledge has instructed the Directorate of Education not to deal with applications for approval under the Law on Secondary Education. It is very worrying that the Council of State asks a directorate not to comply with Norwegian law. Government differential. Approved schools which have already started in the autumn for various reasons are tolerated, while approved schools which have not yet started are not tolerated. I call this arbitrary. This budget debate also raises legitimate questions about the budgetary implications of this crisis. In conclusion, let me say that I have registered that the Council of State, Djupedal, has on some occasions taken the local politicians and state politicians for their grip. He should end with that. There's no basis for that. Our state politicians have expressed their opinion on applications, as the law requires them to do. They've done their job. But that doesn't mean that the Council of State can take the Christian People's Party to income for the way he now exercises his power over the colleges. There is no basis for that. Our state politicians are completely ending up about what the Christian People's Party has said, and the way we have reacted in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1380	When the previous government presented its draft budget, there were more heathmarks than I got the coffee in my throat over especially one proposal that went to education. The government proposed that a pen stroke should be added to the study site of Eventstad in Stor-Elvdal, Hedmark. The same was true of a department in Sogn and Fjordane. By removing 70 out of 110 target places, the government would shave Evenstad and put educational opportunities there. This came as a shock on the entire heath bench, because Evenstad is the only place of education with forest and outreach education at higher education level, and is crucial in the build-up of skills and the dissemination of knowledge around the challenges that preface the development of District Norway. Even though they have a high level of formal competence at the professor level, they have a high level of research production of high international quality. The national top-level research environment for predators and cervids and Eventstad is an important part of a large national and international research network. In short, a viable, important and unique place of education with increasing numbers of students. So this is what the Bondevik government proposed. It's no wonder this created a shock in Hedmark County. This came as lightning from the clear sky. Never had the closure of Eventstad been discussed with the college, not in any open political environments had this been discussed, not even the Right's own politicians at home were familiar with this until suddenly it came as a proposal in the budget – without any good explanation. And believe me, we asked, but we didn't get a good answer as to why the previous government chose to suggest putting this viable place of education down. The answer must simply be that more centralisation of education is a desired political development. Fortunately, we have a new majority in education policy. It's not a red-green policy to put down viable places of study in the districts, and we can breathe easily beyond the fact that Eventstad is not laid down. The Bondevik government's proposal to shut down the study site was a betrayal of the districts. It was a betrayal of the forest and land industry, and it was a step towards more centralisation of education. I'm glad the new government didn't accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1400	There are many students, parents and teachers who have taken legal decisions and planned their future out of them. With a pen stroke, the new Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal makes sure to crush the students' dreams. I think it is quite striking in this case that the Council of State Djupedal does not at all relate to the students' choices, their wishes, their dreams, or to the teachers who want to apply to new schools, their dreams for which day-to-day school they want to establish for the students. I think the Council of State is meeting the Storting in an arrogant way. He is given a good opportunity to refute it in his next post, namely in relation to answering some of the questions asked. It is always important to listen to arguments, but the main argument of Øystein Djupedal that these private schools, or the primary schools, are a threat to the public schools, it is measured and weighed by the Education Directorate and by the Department and found unsustainable. Then there is a central question, namely, Question 1, to the State Council of Djupedal: What new information, what documentation besides political claims and ideology, does the Department and Government have in relation to now justifying the post-secondary school stop that the new schools are a threat to the public school? The second question that has been raised and has not yet been answered is: Why did the Council of State choose not to inform the Government of the post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary post-secondary. This is a rather central issue, not because it necessarily affects the information obligation, but because it says quite a lot about how the new government intends to deal with the Stortinget – whether there is majority arrogance behind it, or whether it was simply not ventured to present this decision while the Stortinget was still discussing the budget. The third question, which is also unanswered, is whether the government has budgeted for the 40 schools to start up or not. This has raised a series of questions during the examination of the financial position and the Ministry of Education budget. I think the Council of State should now take the opportunity to answer these three questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1411	What has been submitted to Stortinget is that during the spring the Stortinget will have a case about changes to the law on free school. It's in the supplementary statement, it's in the summary, and it's also confirmed from the opposition that they've noticed it. That's what we want to do. This will then be sent to the hearing, which will be held in February. This means that students, schools and teachers have predictability related to what it will be like from the next harvest. The budgetary document before us proposes a growth in appropriations of 8.1 pst. from 2005 to 2006. This is based on average growth in recent years. It is somewhat lower than the Bondevik government provided, and this change in estimate that is also there is based on the same assumptions, namely a student's 1.10. 2005. It's always hard to know how many schools start, even if they've been approved. In the year that we soon have behind us, there are several schools that do have approval that have still not started. Many of these were proposed by the previous government. It was assumed that more schools started at school than what actually turned out to be the reality. The proposed change in appropriations here is based on the same assumption as that of the former government that we don't know. This means that there will be an estimate, and then it will be corrected in future budgetary documents if it turns out that the estimate is not correct. Let me also say that of the schools that are affected by this freezer, the big weight is schools that have the same curricula as the public school. When it comes to high school, it's 27 schools. Of these, a total of 25 have curricula that are public, just one is a pedagogical option, and one is without parallel in public schools. For primary school, there's something of the same picture. Five are similar to parallels, while three are based on life views and three are pedagogical alternatives. What we've done, we've done, of course, because we've seen a huge increase in the number of schools in fresh air, in the number of students. We notified our voters both during the election and in the Soria Moria statement that we would come back to this, and it's mentioned in the supplementary proposition, which the opposition has also noted and endorsed. So this is also a question of politics. That's of course what the most profound thing is about. The fact that our government has notified changes to the voters, is obvious, initially in the form of a bill which is now being sent to the hearing, and which will be submitted to the Stortinget in February. Of course, the size of this bill will normally be dealt with when it is presented to the House.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1424	This budget is the most serious estimate of higher education and research, according to Inge Wohnning. He does not deny himself. This budget for higher education and research is much the same as that presented by Kristin Klemet. There are small adjustments for 2006, and that means that if his claim is correct, it was a very serious estimate that Kristin Clement had to make against education and research. There is one greater adjustment. It concerns the Research Fund. In the worst case, it has consequences for 2007, but it does not mean anything to the budget in 2006, and we know that the objective of research is firm. Whether we are going to finance it from the 2007 budget, or whether we are going to finance it from the fund, is to the extent that one fat. The most important thing is that it is funded. We've said we're going to have a stepping-up plan, and it's going to come. So Inge Wohnning takes hold of the boarding schools, and he uses Denmark as an example and shows that they have a significantly larger amount of private schools than what we have in Norway. That's right. They have a completely different tradition, not least linked to Grundtvig and his pedagogical vision. But three years ago there was a development in Copenhagen where 25 pst. by children from Muslim environments went to their own Muslim schools – 25 p.m., each fourth Muslim, attended their own Muslim school. This was so serious that even conservative politicians in Copenhagen were worried because it became a problem for integration. Now the situation is not the same in Norway – dear friend, that’s not what I’m saying. But if we get this kind of development through several private schools, there's reason to be on guard, because we don't want that kind of segregation. I also hope that Inge Wohnung agrees that if we get such a development with such a number of fresh oils, there is cause for concern. So a little bit to the end. Every generation says that everything was better before. Especially in education was by far the best before. The level of knowledge was higher, we learned more, etc. We've heard this before. The fact that we want and say that different pathways should lead to acquired study skills is precisely to stimulate and facilitate that those who choose other paths to their education, different ways of acquiring competence, should also have a platform for higher education. There shall be different roads, several roads, into higher education. I am absolutely convinced that this has nothing to do with the level of higher education, cf. the trials carried out at various colleges in which a student has been admitted on the basis of a diploma. Those students do it at least as well as the others. In addition, this has been important in recruiting students for engineering and real-life vocational training.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1436	The degree to which democracy works in a society is determined, inter alia, by: of how the majority treats the minority, or we should say minorities. I think the discussion about colleges is very much about that. Now I'm not sure if this is so much about the question of the private colleges, which I would like to say a little bit about first, which has been dramatically cut in their grants for operations, on the basis. There is the question: Why in the world does the government find it necessary to strangle schools that provide skilled personnel for important community services, such as teachers and pre-school teachers? One of the examples is Queen Mauds Minne, the most important preschool teacher education institution in northern Europe – old and venerable – with a cut of more than 1 million. kr in base. They provide pre-school teachers who are very long-awaited. ECON Analysis has found that we need 3,000 new preschool teachers in the time to come. Why has this been done? And the Academy of Teachers, which others have been involved in here too, why do you cut 3.5 million. Do you really want to delete this item? We have not received a proper answer to these questions that we have asked. Everyone agrees that we need more and more competent teachers in Norway, and then we cut the economy of the best institutions. It's not on your fingertips. And then you point out, as the representative of Enger did, that this is to strengthen the districts. You don't know what you're really doing. Cutting the basic allocation means destroying the possibilities for these schools to maintain a good professional offer, because they have to have good offers in all the disciplines because of their curricula. This is going to be hard after that. So you might as well put them down. It doesn't strengthen the districts. So finally to the questions. Odd Einar Dørum asked the Council of State Djupedal: What happened between November 25th and December 7th? We have not received an answer to that. I have a strong feeling that the council here is trying to bypass the question by referring to the announced odelstingsproposition, which means a review of the law on free school, and that we all know is coming. But here's the question of two things, first of all, the emergency stop that was announced yesterday, and then the announced review in the longer term. And my question to the Council of State Djupedal is, are we just talking about a single review, or are we talking about two different reviews now? Is it true that you've moved a little bit on the factors here? So now we're talking about two different legal reviews. We want an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1447	I note that the church budget will be adopted. It hasn't been the big discussion, except on a few points, and I'm glad. I am also pleased with the signals I get from the opposition parties on support for a broad process around the state church question and also the willingness to find broad solutions. Nevertheless, when I took the floor in the middle of this touching consensus, it was due to the intervention of the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party on parental rights, for example. freedom of belief and religion in relation to the schooling of children. It is true that we have signed international declarations giving parents the right to decide about their own children's education. It's actually like there's no obligation to go to school once, but it's an obligation to make sure that children are taught. So far, so good. We have even provided state support to various schools with religious alternatives just to build up among these parents. However, there is not a single international declaration that obliges the State to pay any private school in Norway. It's not like Sonans and John Bauer can come by hand with declarations of human rights and say that they should have paid the bill for their operations. There are many countries in the world that barely spend money on paying schooling to children and young people. So taking this with the parental right into an obligation for the state to take the bill for any private school will be a relatively long piece. It is true that the KrFs around the counties have done their own thing by expressing their opinion about these private schools. The problem was that the Christian People’s Party and the previous government would not listen to them. Among other things, in the representative Høybråten's own county, Rogaland, the KrF protests against the establishment of private schools that can rage at the public high school. But the representative from Rogaland doesn't care about them. Fortunately, we got a government shift that means that someone cares about what the KrFs in Rogaland and in many other states actually mean. Then I just have to say – and now I speak as an old Minister of Education, not as Minister of the Church – that the way the estimates for private schools are made under Djupedal is exactly the same way as under Clement, under me, under Lilletun and Hernes, because there are estimates. The criticism that the opposition is now promoting because it and that school are not included is as meaningless as saying that the unemployment figures are wrong because it is not expected that it and that company will be shut down. There are estimates, and if one really should have gone into rule changes and said that it has given a verdict, the opposition should perhaps have had several hundred million dollars in that item, so they would have come into a budget deficit. But these are estimates. The fact that the opposition also demands to be present at the government conferences before the Government has taken its position and can present what is to be sent to the hearing is also quite alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1460	When SV went to the election this time, two of our most desperate issues were to get an improved municipal economy, so that we could get more well-being out in the municipalities, and to call about the unit school and stop the privatisation of the school. This harvest has been good for SV in this way. Firstly, we have received a municipal economy with which the rapporteurs and local authorities around the country are well pleased. They don't drink champagne and lift the flag, but they say this was going to live with. In addition, we have now finally taken the grip to stop a privatisation of the school, which in SV's opinion would be very, very harmful if it had continued as it started under the previous government. Some of the most fundamental and important to balance the differences between people in Norwegian society has been the school of unity that we have often built up, from the middle war to the present day, and that the Right-dominated government began to tear down stone by stone. Fortunately, we got a government shift, where we now have to put down our feet, put back in place the stones that had been taken out of the construction work, and make the construction even better than before. I understand that the opposition is critical of what is happening now. Yes, because there are differences in ideology between SV and Right, there will be disagreement in such situations, and it should be. This is about what kind of society we want. SV is for a society where there is the greatest possible equality between people, and then we want to have a school that allows everyone to get the same offer, regardless of their background, from small to high school/university education. That is why I respect and understand that the opposition is strongly critical of what comes now from Minister of Knowledge Djupedal, whom I believe has done a good job in this matter. I fully understand that, but I also ask for understanding that this is entirely in line with what the red-green government wants. It's actually about a distinction in Norwegian politics, about what kind of society we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1467	Ine Marie Eriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1470	I do not ask to be present at the government conference of the Red-Green Government, but I humbly ask that the information the Stortinget should have come to the Stortinget, not least an urgent decision in the Government that goes beyond all normal proceedings and all normal administrative practice. With all possible respect, to the Council of State, Djupedal, what the Committee has noticed, and what we voted for, is an overall review of the normal procedure, which had been announced in the spring of 2006. We have not signed out an emergency law with real effect from 13 December, which has retroactive effect on already approved schools. For the simple reason that we have not received any information that such a decision was taken in the Government between the presentation of their supplementary budget, the examination of the Committee and the debate today, the Committee has not accepted it. I note that the Council of State did not want to inform Stortinget about this. And the question from the representative, Sanner, remains equally unanswered: What new information has the Council of State been given to indicate that the 40 approved schools for which the Directorate of Education has gone well are suddenly a threat to public schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1475	While we are waiting in excitement for the Council of State's answer to the question raised by Ine Marie Eriksen, I would like to mention that the Progress Party also received a small greeting from the representative Signe Eye, who used the opportunity to say hello to Eastfold before Christmas. What she picked up was, among other things, why the Progress Party had not been involved in granting 1 million. kr to the Fossum Collective. Then I just want to remind you that there is a unanimous committee that has stressed that there is a work going on to secure the funding of the precisely Phossum Collective and the Tyrelic Collective and similar provision for young people with drug problems. The progress party did not participate in the one million explicitly to the Fossum collective, but we have added a total of 35 million. NOK under a new item, 76, Grants to schools with special needs. So there should be an answer to Signe Øyes's question. But I would like to continue in the same path and ask: Why do the government parties not support the proposals of the Progress Party to give full housing compensation to the Østfold High School? Similarly, the Progress Party has requested that the Academy of Performing Arts in Eastfold be treated in the same way as similar training we have elsewhere in the country. This has also been opposed by the government parties, and we find that very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1480	First of all, a small remark to the representative, Mr. Requam, who has apparently heard another post other than what I had. I haven't talked about an estimate of higher education. On the other hand, I have pointed out that the way in which the new government has chosen to construct the Ministry of Knowledge, almost inevitably will lead to the fact that parts of the vast portfolio of cases will be down-priority, because a very large portfolio has been transferred that has never been in that department before and is one of the most difficult portfolios in Norwegian policy at all. That this leads to the political weight that the Council of State would have to invest somewhere else, was from my point of view a prognosis, and then we'll see how it's going to hit. The representative Reikvam is calling 25 billion kroner for an adjustment. It's pretty loud, of course. My small assumption was that it is not really the Minister of Knowledge who has taken the initiative or pressed for a reduction in the transfer to the Research Fund, and I would assume that the representative Rikham also considers it a reasonable working hypothesis. It can only mean one thing, namely that in the internal struggle of any government, the Minister of Knowledge has lost an important thing. The purity of the communication of the majority government with the Stortinget has not increased by the fact that the Minister of the Church found reason to take up the role of former Minister of Education. It increased immaturity even more. And I think this debate – if there is no further clarification from the Government – has left an impression of the weakest side of majority parliamentaryism, namely the temptation to abuse power, and of closed and unjust communication, both in relation to the Storing and in relation to those affected by the way the Government exercises its power. It's okay enough that the government is allergic to private colleges. It is evident, both through the original draft budget, and through the further cuts implemented by the red-green parties in the Committee, which have no other reason than the private nature of these schools. There is no reason to justify the actual nature of the cuts that have been made. It's okay that you want to flag that you want to fight private schools, but a minimum of cleanliness should be. And it's not a common diet in Norway that the government uses its power with retroactive force towards citizens who have used their rights in good faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1491	Anders Anundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1494	So now we've heard from the Council that there's going to be a new law of exception in February. However, it is important to clarify that existing law applies until the adoption of new law in February. On December 6th – I think in a reply I was injured to say November 30th, but the right date is December 6th – I received a reply from the Council of State to a written question. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘The Ministry of Education and Research and the Directorate of Education are committed to meeting general administrative soundness requirements also in respect of applications for the establishment of fresh oils.’ Does the Council of State really believe that the treatment to which primary schools are currently exposed is within the framework of sound procedural procedures? And if what he is now presenting, the plan was already twelve days ago, why didn't the Council of State take the opportunity to inform the Storting by this answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1504	Appropriations for private schools are like many other proposals for funding in the State budget estimate based on trends, and based on the knowledge you have at all times. That means that the estimate for the economy for this item is 8.1 pst. higher, but it is based on the student count per 1 October and a scheduled estimate of the number of schools starting next harvest. This is done exactly the same way this year as it was done before, and in that way it represents nothing but that we have adjusted down that number, simply because we thought that there were fewer students who were going to start, and fewer schools that were going to start, as it was also in the harvest. That's why this sum is 350 million. kr, which is a lower estimate change, a result of the exact same thing, namely a student census, and no change in the rules. What we have sent to the hearing is not a rule change at all. We are now going to send a law to the hearing on Friday to freeze existing applications and not to deal with new cases. This is a law of rights that means that the schools that have the opportunity to run, of course, receive grants in the usual way. Then we'll come up with a full review of the law next spring. We intend to send it to the hearing in the autumn. It will be broadly anchored in all environments that are concerned about this, and the reason for that is, of course, that we want proper treatment. It turned out through the process in the autumn that submitting such a comprehensive law to the spring would involve irreproachably short proceedings. It would simply have been too short a time. We have had a wish for a broad, inclusive debate on a new law of free school based on the Soria Moria Declaration, which expresses the government's policy in this field. That's the starting point. In the case of these 40 approved schools, which do not currently have students — this is true for the next autumn — the number of students would have been about about 40. 10,000. It's such a high figure that we've found reason to use our resources in public schools, and that's the background for the changes we're now making. It is the process that has shown that it was necessary to go in two steps. That's why we've done it, too. The government's decision to choose two steps happened on Monday, the day before I presented it to the public. This means that the government as such has not spent much time on this, after we found that proper proceedings would require two steps. Both magnification and publicity were thus informed as soon as it was practically possible in relation to the proceedings that the Government has had on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1515	The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will review legislation and support schemes for the high schools. In reality, the government could have written that the colleges are going to go through, because that's what's going on right now. I think the Minister of Knowledge has a surprisingly weak argument for what he has done. I understand so much that he needs to resort to the Christian People's Party's state politicians to support the argument, but there he has no support. I also understand that former Minister of Education Giske had to make three supporting arguments in this regard, but the arguments that Giske makes do not hold water. The parental right is no obligation to pay for any school, says the Council of State Gieske. No, it's not, but it's actually that you can't respect parental rights and international conventions about this, and don't support alternative schools. That's the point, that the government is setting aside the current law on the right to support alternative schools, such as schools with alternative pedagogics or life-time schools. There was no reason for voters to wait, after what was said by Soria Moria and various speakers from the government in the election campaign. Then we'll get a lesson here on estimates. State Council Gieske says that this is to compare with getting criticism in Stortinget because one had not taken into account in the estimates of labour market measures or daily allowances that an enterprise would end up. It's a comparison that doesn't hold water at all, because what you've done here is a rule change. Game rules are automatically removed - this is a rule change. And a change of rules will have consequences for an estimate. The question that has been asked here today is about the change in rules adopted by the Government yesterday, within the estimate that the Storting will adopt today. I realize that the answer to that is no. This means that the usual rules of play have been broken in relation to estimates, because that information should really be the basis for measuring such appropriations. We'll probably get back to that. This is an expression of the introduction of arbitrary administrative practices, for discrimination between applicants. The case is likely to have its aftermath both in this room and in other rooms, because the case raises both legal, principal and ideological questions that this debate has not answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1531	No one questions the right of a new government to present a new law that implies a new attitude towards health care. But that's not what this case is about. That's not what Inge Ryan says, that this is a deep ideological question. It is a question of whether the law should have retroactive effect or not. That is what this debate is about. What has been the very basis for the decision that the Council of State says was taken on Monday, what professional assessments have been on the basis of which it is now believed that the schools that had been authorised to operate are a threat to the public school – that is what this debate is about. I note that the Council of State has still not answered what professional assessments were the basis for that decision. Throughout yesterday, the Council of State said that it had been a long process before this decision was reached. There was no urgent decision, it was said. But in the previous article, the same government council said that the Storting could not be informed earlier, because the decision was taken on Monday. Does that mean you made this decision in one day? In this case, it is even more alarming that professional assessments can be used to justify the withdrawal of the approval that many schools have received. The representative Rolf Reikvam said in his post that we should be on guard against the development of several private schools, so they do not threaten the public school. But no one disagrees with that either. There is no one who disagrees that we have to make sure that we get a development that allows public schools and colleges to develop side by side. That was a good cooperation with, among other things, Representative Rolf Reikvam during the previous period assuring this. But now, on the basis of the law adopted in the last growing-up period, approval has been given to new schools, and with a pen stroke and obviously a scandalous mistreatment without a professional basis – at least we have not heard anything about it so far – these approvals have been withdrawn. I repeat the question to the Council of State: what professional assessments are the reasons why the approvals given have now been withdrawn, which were obviously not known when the Directorate of Education and the Ministry of Education gave these approvals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1544	Rolf Rekvam gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1547	For the private higher education institutions, we have established the same financing system as for the public. That means you have a basic allocation, and then you have two variables that depend on the number of weights passed, and what you produce from scientific work. If you're going to cut private schools, or cut public schools, you only have one place to cut, and that's in basic appropriations. So there shouldn't be any sensation for Ola T. That's what Kristin Clemet taught us, that's where we can cut. After all, she proposed a cut in her original draft budget for the Hedmark High School, the Högskulen in Sogn and Fjordane, the Nord-Trøndelag High School, etc. - and it was cut in the basic appropriations. What we're doing is strengthening the public schools, putting back the money that Kristin Klemet proposed to cut in these places, just to take into account the engineering training, the protective care training, etc. To finance that, we've taken money from the private colleges. There should not be any sensation from our ideological anchoring that we want to give priority to the public educational institutions. That's the explanation, and it's that simple. Then we also know that the various private universities have different funding from the public – from 20 to 90 pst. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1558	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1561	I record that the Right has used this discussion in Stortinget for the total discharge of responsibility for what has happened in education policy in the last four years. School Norway has been hit by large cuts. This state budget provides the basis for a billionlifts in school. We're straightening out all the cuts that Right has had the primary responsibility for around the country's municipalities. The right-hand side talked a lot about quality assurance. It was Kristin Clemet's great achievement project. But this she had such a bad political hand with that it had to be paused in the rehearsals – almost the last time she suggested before she left. This is something we have to clean up. At least it is not a good deal about the major knowledge challenges in Norwegian school she leaves behind. In the case of curricula: Here too, the Right has used this discussion to run away from the responsibility for lack of political governance with the curricula. It's quite right that the directorate is drawing up curricula, but they're operating on political signals. The political signals from the Storting were well - known when it came to curricula. This has not been done by the previous government. As far as private schools are concerned, it is quite clear that countries with many such schools have greater social differences — see Figure 1. research report from Sweden. In those areas where there are large, high incomes, there is also a large proportion of private schools. It's going to be an A and B system, where the public school is being defused and the private schools are a better offer for those who are rich. This development does not want us. We believe that it is a value in itself that we have a school where all walks of life meet. It gives the best knowledge for everyone, not just for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1572	Odd Einar Dørum gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1575	Since the representative Huitfeldt used the chance to sum up – and has probably listened carefully to his movements outside the hall – I should also take the opportunity to briefly summarise. The government has a legacy on the research side – it is to be congratulated on the Research Fund. It has inheritances on the knowledge cycle. It's also going to be a happy one. So to the matter – after Huitfeldt’s representative was to be the lightning director of the Council of State: Is it that this government suddenly got an overview of the developments of the schools around 10th, 11th December, and then had an emergency round that led to a government conference on 12th? Then you have to wonder how the government prioritizes its time in relation to something that is a heart issue for it. It creates a wonderful relationship, especially when you make a rule change – you define it yourself as a rule change – that enters into a budget and gives some retrospective effect. The alternative, of course, is that we have to assume that the Council of State was clear on December 6, when he replied to the Advance Party, and then there are two possibilities. Either he had an overview and would not answer because it did not suit him because of the majority position, or you had to act in panic because you suddenly got an overview of something that was a heart matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1584	Just to respond to what the Højbrätt says about the obligation to pay for private alternatives – I would like to emphasise again that I only stick to what happened from 2001 onwards: Here, Djupedal handles the excellent answers to these estimates. I just have to say that, because it is so tempting: we presented a research budget of SEK 1.3 billion. Then it came from the opposition representative Dørum that it was far too small. The following year, the new government halved the growth of research. So you get to go a little bit in your archives before you go to the pulpit here and look great with your research appropriations. For 35 years we have had a broad educational policy settlement in Norway between the centre and the left, and sometimes the right side. It has been said that public schools should be ringed, and there should be support for religious and pedagogical alternatives. There were two laws in force. Either you could get support under the law – where you got support – or there was a much wider framework for starting private schools without public support. It was almost just to make sure you got a minimum of training, so anyone could start, anytime, and any student. But if you want public support, it's a little more demanding. The broad agreement in the early 1970s, for which Kjell Bondevik is to have much of the credit, has been followed by alternating governments all the way. The only big controversy we had was between Lilletun and me around the ACE schools, but it's a microscopic matter in relation to the broad agreement. It provided stability, it provided predictability, and it provided security for both public common schools, for municipalities and for private alternatives. The broad agreement was broken when the Christian People's Party went away from it and supported the Right Party and the Advance Party on something that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have never supported the Right Party and the Advance Party, that is, to give full release to commercial private schools entitled to state aid, across local desires. Isn't there any religious movement called the John Bauer movement, or the Sonans movement, that requires respect for their freedom of faith to get public support to start schools that erase the public high schools? I wonder what Lånke is going to say to the representatives at home in Sør-Trøndelag when Meldal secondary school is laid down, when Hitra secondary school is laid down or when Rissa secondary school is laid down, or what Odd Einar Dørum is going to say when his and my school, Trondheim Cathedral School, is closed – because 1,300 seats are to be set up in private schools! What we tried in 2001 was to hold on to the broad agreement that gave it predictability. It was the Christian People's Party and the Left that broke, and that is what is now creating the great uncertainty that is thought to have arisen. But that political choices have consequences, once you've gone into a landscape you've never been in, must be a matter of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1593	No pay is given the word of a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1596	I note with interest that it is the Minister of Culture who has taken over as Minister of Education. I don't think it significantly strengthens the minister of knowledge, to say it with an understatement. The representative Huitfeldt was asked earlier in the debate if she had ever been to Denmark. After her last post, I found that the answer to that is no. Her reference to the research report from Sweden has nothing to do with the claim she made. She made a general claim about «land», while the research report from Sweden is about internal Swedish conditions. It's with respect to report an ax shaft. Then I find out that the representative Rikvam confirms that it is a targeted and desired policy when you hit exactly the private colleges. Two colleges in Oslo have the red-green ones picked out, and one in Bergen. After Rikham's contributions, it can only be seen that there are suggestions that you want to hit these schools. Politically alarming is the fact that the Centre Party is involved in this crusade against anything called private activity at both higher education level and second level in the Norwegian education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1605	Lena Jensen gets the floor for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1609	As a position politician, I am, and formerly as an opposition politician, I – and SV have always been – concerned with inclusion. The process of the Committee on the Budget this autumn has been included. We've discussed politics, and we've discussed content. But as a politician, I don't want to be attacked either for not running politics. The new government is doing just that, it's conducting politics, just like Kristin Klemet and the right-wing government were conducting politics when they were in position, among other things. in a budget in which they proposed and implemented a cut of 4000 higher education places. With regard to policies towards private schools, the Government has made an estimate in exactly the same way as previous governments have done. With regard to the budget we are about to adopt, the estimate made by the previous government was over 200 million. kr more than what stayed [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1616	Dagfinn Højbråten also gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1619	When you listen to the debate, there may be some doubts about who is the Minister of Education, but I would like to take the debate with the Council of State Giske. He has a description of the story that is completely wrong. The law of free school, which Kjell Bondevik presented and was adopted in Stortinget, was then passed against the Workers' Party and – at that time – the votes of the Socialist People's Party. The Free School Act, which Kjell Magne Bondevik presented here in the middle of the 1980s, was adopted against the votes of the Labour Party and the SV for most paragraphs. So this presentation, that we've come together about this legislation, is with respect to reporting errors. It is also wrong that, from the mid-1980s and 1960s, no previous laws had been able to provide grants to schools that had parallels in public schools, which were not purely alternative schools, but filled a quantitative need. That home was in both laws. Let me just finish by saying that, based on what has been said, the Storting will adopt a budget based on... [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1630	It's almost a little late. The President estimates that one minute's speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1633	That's an important piece of information, President! Can I complete the post?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1638	If it is limited to half a sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1641	The half sentence would then be that the Stortinget is in the process of adopting a budget for education where the estimate of the private school chapter does not contain the consequence of a rule change adopted by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1646	Ola T. Loan is given the word for up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1652	Yes, and that's what I'm going to use to correct an impression that Rolf Rikvam's representative gave when it came to the colleges. He said that, in order to maintain the offers, he tried to return money that had been proposed in the budget of the state colleges, and showed, among other things, that. to the Nord-Trøndelag High School. This is not the case. In the Nord-Trøndelag, engineering training has already been completed, and I am also quite certain that the red-green parties have agreed with that. They show in their comments that it is due to a lack of student growth, not because you lack money, but because it has not been enough applicants. And so you've gone into a completely different system in relation to the University of South-Trundelag and NTNU. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1657	No one should be in any doubt that the Centre Party has a strong commitment to a good and free school, to the special worthy meeting place that a good local school is. It has also been one of our main arguments for having fought over a long time for a strengthened community economy. We're very happy that next year the municipalities will get $5.7 billion more than last year, because we know that it means too many schools. What the Center Party is in today is not a crusade against private schools. We've had a clear hold, and we still have the same hold, that there should be room for alternative choices based on either alternative pedagogics or life views. It is also set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. We think it's wise for the government to take the time to review the rules and regulations, to have a dialogue with all the agencies in that particular field. We thought that Bondevik II took on a particularly heavy responsibility with such a tight community economy that many public schools were depleted and many had to be laid down. There were many parents who didn't have the opportunity to benefit from the parental right to choose a public school for their kids, because the offer was dropped. Then there is now a temporary law. She's going to listen. Then there's a final proposal for the Storting. Then one will have the opportunity to come up with his objections. I have to be allowed to say two more things. It's a debt of continuing school. There is no doubt that in Rogaland there is a broad political resistance to the break-in of a geographically well-discussed pattern that has been at the advanced school – a pattern that Bondevik II has trampled on. So when it comes to higher education, we're very happy that one has to go through the bottom line. We think it's necessary to secure the worthy supplement that this school battle should be. [[President clubs]] Finally, President, there are no unilateral cuts here. Rogaland Hajskule is an example of a private school that has been expanded... [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1674	The President will stress that speaking time was up to 3 minutes. Gunnar Gundersen has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and has a speaking time limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1680	I just needed to comment on a little bit of the lightning diversion manoeuvre that was carried out by both the Council of State Giske and the representative Huitfeldt in relation to a government council that has experienced a storm in relation to the fresh air. Focusing on the Right and the lack of funding for the school, I think it's pretty straightforward. It is the Right who has given the country the promise of knowledge, and has made the funding of it. It must be noted that, on the part of the Government, there is an incredible use of the majority power behind the treatment of insurgents; it is really the electoral system that has given that majority power. It was not a mandate given by the people, and it should perhaps present a little more humility to the colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1687	As far as I remember, 18 out of 19 county councils warned against the law of free school that was passed. It included, of course, politicians from many different parties, but many state politicians saw just what was about to happen. That was also the reason why someone warned, and among them, of course, there were also central Christian People's Party politicians – this as an answer to the Højbrätten's posts. So I have to say I'm a little surprised at this debate. The estimation we are making is based on the same assumptions that other governments have had, namely the student count and the best possible estimate of the number of schools and students starting the next harvest. That's the same thing we've done as previous governments have done. I am a little surprised that this is going to be a big deal. To the question of the professional assessment asked by the representative, Sanner, the following is the reality of the procedure: An application is made to the Directorate of Education. The Education Directorate under the previous government gave a much lower number of student places to most schools that applied for than it was requested. It was the professional assessment in the directorate. Then many schools were dissatisfied with it and appealed to Minister of Education Clement. She gave them full support. So it was a political overarching of a technical board from the directorate. When asked what professional basis we have, we are based on the basis of which our government has. In these issues, there is also a question of policy. That means that when Clement of course used the law the way she did, she overthrew the professional advice and said yes to the number of student places it was applied for, it was not based on professional judgement, but based on a political conviction. What we've been saying -- I think almost I don't have to repeat it, but let me say it anyway -- is that all the schools that are going on are still going on. They will continue to have the rights of the law, with state aid. We will present to the Storting next our a more comprehensive change, where we want a broad and long-term process of what this new law will look like. It will be based on what the voters have mandated our government, namely a change in which we will limit the number of incubators, but open to religious and pedagogical alternatives, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. No one in this room can be particularly surprised that a government is following its own policy. I have to say that much of what is coming here, I see more as a bit of shattering uncertainty about how to attack this. Because I understand that not everyone in this room is in agreement with the Government's policy in relation to incubators. I fully acknowledge that – but it is part of democracy, and that is part of what the voters actually voted for on the election day of September. In our government, there has been a majority in favour of changing the post-secondary policy, which we are now following up. That means no one should be surprised at just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1698	Let me first say to the Council of State Djupedal that there is no one who is surprised that the Government is using this access to change the policy for incubators. The government is allowed to change policies. But what gives cause for wonder – I think you have to look for a very long time before you find the husband of a situation that we are now witnessing – is that today, in a short time, the Stortinget has been invited to decide on a numerical budget on the territory of the Council of State that the Storinget now knows is on the wrong basis. Should the Stortinge be familiar with this before the decision is made? Because it is as late as December 6th that Stortinget received a letter – in response to questions from the Progress Party – saying that the procedure goes as usual here. There was reason – for the Committee and the Storting – to believe that the assumptions would be the way they have been all along. Then, at the latest yesterday, we were informed – through a press conference, the newspapers even write that two of the representatives of the Stortinge were not present and get the information at the same time as the public – that the Government has decided to change the rules, actually putting the rules out of play, which means that there has to be a different estimate for next year. So it was 48 hours before this treatment. Thus, the Stortinge will adopt today a numerical budget based on wrong assumptions. And then it hangs in the air: Has the Council misinformed the Stortinget in a letter of December 6th? To that end, the Council of State has actually replied no, because it was not until Monday 12 December that it came up with this. On December 6th, they had something else in their heads. It's probably a right that a majority government has, to raise itself a little bit above things. However, I think there is a rather doubtful situation that has arisen here, because – at least it is my experience after sitting in a few minority governments – something had been done 48 hours before a budgetary procedure, had gone very quickly to Stortingen with that information. It had been about hours and minutes to get that information to Stortinget, but it was obviously not the government's concern. We've got a majority government asking for a mandate from the voters just to get a majority in order to offer predictability, not chaos, said it in the election campaign. If this is what we call predictability, Norwegian citizens should be governed by, then there are many who have reason to be concerned about the future. This is very much about the legal certainty of Norwegian citizens, the right to be able to deal with legitimate decisions taken by Norwegian authorities. This is a randomness that I think is scary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1705	It was the post of the Central Party's parliamentary leader, Magnhild Meltvet Kleppa, who got me to take the floor, and just like an interview she's given to the Day. She says that it's just a cheese ratio that's done when it's about the Norwegian Teachers' Academy Teachers' College. When one actually gets to cut beyond the quarter of the budget, I'm going to say that there's a rough set of cheese ratios. The same applies to many other private spheres. As I know the role of the Center Party in the creation of the Norwegian Academy of Teachers, I wonder if one accepts going into that line. Because then the party was simply champions that one would get a school that, in fact, because of the lack of teachers, would be financed equally with the public. Therefore, I thought that what gives cause for fear when it comes to the treatment of health laws in relation to religious and pedagogical alternatives is how one now sees that one treats the private spheres. If you think about being the same when you've got the new laws in place, there's reason to fear. Then I don't have reason to doubt what the Council says about estimates. I believe that when he says it was like this. But I didn't think he commented on the change that happened when the government arrived at that decision on Monday. Because it is obvious that when one made the estimation decision and passed it on on on the basis that one had 40 approved schools — it was the previous government that did — and then freeze the start of them, there must be another final result. I actually thought the Council of State could recognize that in this Chamber it must be. So I don't suspect he's messing with that estimate until the last decision came. But now there has to be another number, and I think he should actually admit it. Let me also say one more thing. One is constantly trying to take the state politicians of the Christian People's Party to income for his vision. There is no doubt that they were skeptical of some of the approvals that came. But what we know after being in contact with them is that they're completely indisputable about managing a law with retroactive effect. Therefore, one cannot take them into income for the grip you have done, with an entirely unusual administrative practice. Only the future will show if it can stand in a straight line. Therefore, it is wrong to take these politicians to income for what they have done now, even though they were skeptical of the high number of new places that came into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1721	Let me first say that I understand very well that the Christian People's Party is taking its state politicians to income for strengthening the state community supply, and for helping you to keep a well-established school pattern. I understand it not least in the light of the reactions I have registered in the area, for example. the light Christian People's Party's committee leader in the county of Rogaland expressed when the first round of approvals was ready from the previous government and there were not as many seats as requested. So I see that giving the promise of retroactive force is another discussion. So to the Center Party's vision when it comes to private high-spherical spheres. I'll confirm what Jon Lilletun's underneath. The centre party engaged to establish the Norwegian Academy of Teachers, with the education they have. We thought it was an important institution, an institution that today contributed to research in important areas — yes, but also to professional training of both teachers and preschool teachers. So we're glad that one of these is going to have a review of the backbones of the private spheres. We mean they make an important supplement. We think it's important to have such a review, because one then sees what the individual institution means. We have done so in this budget. But it is wrong to use it as it has been done in this debate, it is wrong that this government has initiated a crusade, as I said, against the private spheres. Because it's an indisputable fact that there's a private high school called the Rogaland High School, which has received 1.3 million. kr i plus in order to strengthen the training of caregivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1732	Jan Tore Sanner has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1735	At the end of this debate, the fog has lightened, at least a little bit. I notice that the Council of State confirmed in its last statement that there is no professional judgement on the basis of which the decision was taken. He says straight away that the professional basis is politics. Then I have to find out that there is no process, no professional assessment, but only pure and raw exercise of power. It is quite obvious that a government that has a majority can and will use its power. It also means that there are limits to how much an opposition can contribute to weakening a government council. But when the Minister of Knowledge is placed under the pure administration of the Minister of Culture in his own government, the authority is also taken from him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1742	Let me first replicate to Lilletun: the estimate that we've given about fresh oils or the number of appropriations is the best estimate we can have. There's two relationships that make that the best thing we have. One is that we don't know how many schools would have started. The 40 that this is about have been allowed to start in the autumn. They haven't started. It was estimated that some of these were going to start. How many of these would possibly have started the next harvest under the old law, it will be completely impossible to know, simply because they have had permission this year. It's not used, and we don't know how many would have started next year. In addition, with regard to the law that we pass on to the hearing, we have opened up the possibility for existing schools to expand their student base. That means we don't know how many of the schools are going to apply for enlargement. There is an opening for it, and it will mean more students in existing schools. That means that the basis we've gone to Stortingen for what estimate you have for next year is the best estimate we have. If it turns out that that estimate is not correct, either positive or negative, you will usually come back to the Storting – the way you got back in the supplementary proposal, where it turned out that there was too high an allocation in the budgets previously adopted in the Storing. So to Jan Tore Sanner's last post. It is true that the professional judgement exercised in the ministry is a political judgement related to these issues — just as when Clement overruled the directorate in the appeal case and thus gave full respect to most of these schools. It was out of her political discretion, so she wanted it to be. It's an opportunity that a government council has. That's why it goes first to the directorate, then to the department. This possibility exists. There is no objective professionalism in these kinds of issues. There are criteria for approval, that's right. How many student places you actually want is based on a slightly larger overall picture of this. This is what the law has been practiced by various governments, and so it will be practiced in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1751	Jon Lilletun has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1754	I think there's a certain counting error here, I've only had the word once before. But 3 is a high number to add. I took the word because it could sound as if the decision on the retroactive effect of this law did not affect the approved schools. The fact that a person actually withdraws or freezes the approval of 40 schools means that he has to change the regulations. I understand that one will come back and correct it, but it has to change the regulations. And I thought that the Council of State should recognise that in relation to the debate that we have. That was the first one. The second is that the Council of State compares what former councillor Clement did when she treated the anchors, when she overestimated what the directorate had previously come up to, and the freeze-case that is now leading; in either case, a political assessment has been made. Yes, but it's quite a bit from that to what's a legal procedure, where one has the right to appeal to the directorate's decision. One may be united or disunity in what the then State Council Clement did, and there will be different views in this room. But it's not possible to compare this to giving a law retroactive force, as it's done here. I would ask the Council of State to say when something similar has happened in the administration in the postwar period. When is the retroactive effect of a decision taken on the basis of a law adopted by a majority in Stortinget? That's the alarm. It gets wrong when you say that in both cases a political judgement is exercised. Yes, but there is a difference in the exercise of discretion according to a law such as that of the Storting, and what the Government has done in this case. So there was one thing I didn't get time to say instead. There are several speakers who have said that one has now laid down so many foundations because of the tight local economy. There is no doubt that it has been a contributing cause. But when you try to represent it as if it's only happened in the last four years, it's going to be very crazy. When you've been in this room working on this for 20 years, you know that there's been a fairly similar development under different governments, where the local economy has been a recurring theme, whether it's been a labor party government or a Bondevik I or Bondevik II government. Using arguments like this would become an error.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1766	The President regrets the problems of counting. Then the president will always stick to Jon Lilletun in terms of numbers. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1776	Then we are ready to vote on case no. 1 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1784	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 5-9, by Anders Anundsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the The President shall first address proposals which are independent of the framework. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-9 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e1835	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2, 3 and 4, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-14.ana.ud312e5159	There is an aberrant proposal here, proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2006 is authorised under: Chapter.Strategic expenditure:BudgetsBudgetsbudgetsbudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgetsBudgeance for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Springing for Spring for Spring for Springing for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Springshiping for Springshiping for Springing for Springing for Springshiping for Springing for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring for Spring – BudgetsBudgetsBudgement and similar for Spring [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2410)]] IIMerresomstakterThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Knowledge in 2006 may: 1st@item: inlistbox exceed the appropriations below the corresponding deficit revenue. Item 200, heading 1 cap. 3200 Item 2cap. 204 item 1 cap. Item 3204, heading 2kap. Item 220 1 cap. 3220 item 2 cap. Item 222 1 cap. 3222 entries 2 and 61 chap. Item 225 item 1 cap. 3225 item 4cap. Item 230 item 1 cap. 3230 entries 2 and 11 chap. 256 item 1 cap. 3256 item 2ch. 270 item 75 cap. 3270 heading 49kap. Item No. 281. 1 cap. Item 2chap. 3281. Item 286, heading 50, cap. 3286, heading 80cap. Item 287, heading 56, cap. 3287, heading 81cap. Item 287, heading 73. 3287, heading 80cap. 2410 item 1 cap. 5310 (3) 2. exceed the appropriations for commissioning activities under item 21 against corresponding revenue.3. use revenues from the sale of properties at universities for the purchase, maintenance and construction of other premises for educational and research purposes at the same institution.4. use revenues from the sale of the Hybelhus Schultz gate for the construction of new student housing, cf. cap. 270 Studies abroad and social purposes for students and students item 75 Grants for the construction of student housing. IIIAuthorities of CommitmentsThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Knowledge in 2006 may: 1. undertake grants in excess of the appropriations allocated, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostDescriptionTotal framework220Directorate of Education70Association of learning materials, etc. 20.0 million. SEK226Quality development in initial training21Special operating costs 120,0 million. SEK270Studies abroad and social purposes for students and students75Contributions to the construction of student housing 130.0 million. SEK285Norway Research Council 52Research objectives SEK 37.5 million. kronor 2. commit to paying aid for the first half of 2007 at the rates set for the second half of 2006 at the rates set for the second half of 2006; [[second half of the 2006-2007 training year]] [[second half of the 2006-2007 training year]] [[2005-2006]] IVVVarious PowersThe Board of Directors agrees that: 1. Privatists who sign up for the examination and candidates who sign up for the vocational/friend tests under the training law § 3-5 shall pay a fee per test. The fee shall be paid to the county. Privatists who sign up for the exam must pay NOK 310 if the retailer has not tried the subject previously as a private individual or student, and NOK 630 for improvement tests. Candidates who apply for vocational/spinning examinations under the training law §3-5, will pay NOK 630 per test if the candidate has not graduated before, and NOK 1250 if they have been tested later.2. The Ministry of Knowledge may authorise universities and colleges to: (a) set up new companies or other entities and participate in companies or entities of the institution's peripheral zone. (b) make use of profits from externally funded activities at the institution or in the peripheral zone for capital contributions for the creation of new units or participation in units of the institution's peripheral zone. (c) make use of dividends from companies or units of the institution's peripheral zone in which the institutions have created or bought shares under mandate. The dividend may be used in the operation of the institution or as a capital formation.d) sell shares in companies in which the institution has established or bought shares. The sum of the sales shall be returned to the institution's operating resources.3. cap. 281 Joint expenditure on universities and higher education institutions Item 51 Internationalisation Centres for Higher Education is exempted from the fourth paragraph of Section 3 of the Appropriations Regulation.4. unused appropriations for 2005 for the Centres for the Internationalisation of Higher Education in Chapters. 281 Joint university and university expenditure Item 1 Operating expenditure and item 21 Special operating expenditure may be carried over to 2006 in accordance with the usual capping rules. 281 Joint costs of universities and colleges entry 51 Centres for the Internationalisation of Higher Education. The Swedish Parliament agrees that the Ministry of Culture and the Church in 2006 may: exceed the appropriations below the corresponding deficit revenue. 340 item 1 cap. 3340 item 1 cap. 340 item 21 cap. 3340 Item 2kap. 341 item 1 cap. 3341 item 1 cap. 341 item 21 cap. 3341 Item 2chap. Item 1 chap. 342 3342 items 1 and 4 VI UndertakingsThe EEAS agrees that, in 2006, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will be able to offer grants in addition to the appropriations allocated, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostNameTotal Framework920Norway Research Council50Additional amount 172.5 million. kronor VIIThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs may in 2006: exceed the appropriations below the corresponding deficit revenue. 1020 items 1 and 21 chapters. 4020 heading 3cap. 1021 items 1 and 21 chapters. 4021 item 1 cap. 1022 items 1 and 21 chapters. 4022 item 1’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they will oppose both the minority proposal and the vote on the motion for a resolution. It is therefore first voted on the proposal from the Progress Party, then on the vote.
