ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e52	Since 1980, electricity consumption in Norway has increased by almost 50 pst, corresponding to an increase of over 1 TWh per year. years on average. In the last 15 years, the increase in electricity consumption in Norway has been more than three times greater than the increase in new power generation. This significant imbalance between supply and demand for electricity has created a very tight balance of power and an increasingly worrying and weakened security of supply in Norway. Since 99 pst. of Norway’s electricity consumption and 46 pst. of our total energy consumption is based on hydropower, a year of precipitation failure will lead to great vulnerability, also because even in a normal year, the power balance has been significantly weakened in recent years. There is therefore now an absolutely legitimate reason to warn that the supply situation in Norway can be very dramatic if, or rather, a dry year occurs. At present, both Finland, Sweden and Norway have a negative balance of power combined, even in a year of normal, average rainfall. Norway therefore has no adequate guarantee that an efficient Nordic energy market can help Norway over a dry year, as was the case in 2002/2003. This is in the long run an unsustainable situation. We therefore need action, and we need far more offensive and powerful energy policy and energy policy strategy in Norway. Norway needs a new energy policy that facilitates the necessary expansion and increase of capacity, based both on more hydropower deployment and on subsidies from other renewable energy sources, and not least on increased power generation based on Norwegian gas. The Norwegian authorities must have a conscious strategy to create a more robust power supply and, today, gas is the most recent option for significant power deployment in Norway. Norway is today the third largest net exporter of oil and gas in the world. We have exported gas since 1977, but nevertheless only to a very modest extent the power to use Norwegian gas for power generation in Norway. As mentioned in the debate earlier this evening, this is paradoxical. In Norway and the Nordic countries, we have very good assumptions, yes, much better than most other countries, to meet our future energy challenges in a good environmental way, and in a way that makes our industry and our business competitive, based on good access to cheap energy. But so far, the new government has not at all been able to make a particularly positive mark in the field of energy policy. That's how the Progress Party assesses it, and based on the signals we have from the Government so far, very little as so far indicates that the Stoltenberg government will conduct a more offensive and ambitious energy policy than the previous Bondevik government did. The proposal for the state budget that we are discussing today underlines in itself the government's passive and unpredictable energy policy line. The draft budget does not indicate any major energy policy ambitions. The costs of CO2 cleaning of gas power plants are far from clear and the signals so far relative to small power plants and any future mandatory electrical certification system are not very uplifting. The conclusion must be that Norway is very well placed to meet the energy challenges we face in terms of energy balance and security of supply. But one important premise has failed so far, and that is the political one. There is Norway's energy policy dilemma: the lack of political will to find solutions to the energy challenges and problems is precarious. Norwegian energy policy has long been a problem. The Progress Party has for several years been very critical of the lack of offensive energy policy of the other parties. The Progress Party has for a long time taken the national energy policy realities seriously, unfortunately without getting specific attention from the other parties here on the Stortinget. This gives rise to serious concerns, and we fear the worst of the future situation regarding power balance and security of supply in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e72	The evidence on earth's environmental status presented in different ways during the recent climate negotiations in Montreal gave a very serious picture to a whole world of the situation today and an expected development in the future. Although environmental challenges consist of many individual elements such as: huge amounts of environmental pollutants in soil, water and air, are probably the biggest climate problems and perhaps the most difficult to solve. Although some may have thought that changes in climate could have other causes than man-made ones, this is no longer a discussion among serious researchers. The ACIA report on already visible climate change in the Arctic and the North regions and upcoming major changes are really frightening facts that call for everyone's attention. Temperatures have increased twice as fast in the Arctic in the last 50 years as in the rest of the world. Per. Today one expects that the temperature will increase between 4 and 6 degrees in the Arctic during approximately. 100 years. A sharp increase in the melting of mainland ice during the summer months in Greenland, sea ice around the polar region that is both thinner and decreasing to an extent, melting of the tundra, etc. shows that these climate change are now beginning to affect the population in these areas. Marine ecosystems in the North Atlantic are changing, with consequences for, inter alia, fisheries, seabirds, whales and seals. A possible weakening of the Gulf Stream can be disastrous. This government has set itself the goal of Norway becoming a leading country in environmental policy. It is an important signal both for our own domestic policies and as a driving force in our international work in the field of climate and environment. It is often the case that in order to take action, there is a need for good evidence of the need to act. Most changes can only be observed and clarified through long-term research and monitoring. I therefore believe that the monitoring programme is a very important tool and that monitoring needs to be strengthened nationally. I would also like to stress here the importance of voluntary environmental organisations as drivers of environmental work and to strengthen the knowledge and interest of environmental work in the population. It is therefore very good that the Government will strengthen this work with increasing appropriations already in the 2006 budget. The force balance in Norway is worrying, to which many have been involved before today. Even in a normal river basin, we must import power. I know fairly well the power situation in the other Nordic countries through my work in the Nordic Council. From the fact that we in the North up to now have a balance between production and demand, we are now going into a situation of underbalance. Although the Nordic energy market now works quite well as a unit, it means that the Nordic countries are no longer self-sufficient in a normal situation, despite Sweden upgrading their nuclear power plants, Finland is building at least one new one and the Danes are covering approximately. 20 pst. by its need through wind power. This suggests that Norway cannot trust that there is enough power in the Nordic market when we have under-covered periods. At the same time, there are certain capacity problems in the exchange of power which should give us further concerns. Imports from neighbouring regions of the Nordic region mean imports of nuclear power from Russian nuclear power stations of the Chernobyl type — which should already have been closed due to the risk of nuclear accidents — and imports of highly polluting coal power. This in itself is environmentally immoral. That's not how we can keep going. We must therefore do as the Government has proposed: invest in alternative power, put in place measures to reduce growth in consumption and build gas power plants with CO2 management. I would like to stress the need to move on with the construction of these gas power plants. I have a very good reason to worry about the power situation in my own region, Mid-Norway, and especially More and Romsdal. In a few years' time, there will be insufficient power for neither households nor industry, and transmission capacity is very poor in meeting future needs. This situation requires immediate attention. In a short time, there will be two gas landing points in the county, both of which are very well suited for gas power stations. This needs to be exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e96	I have listened with interest to the debate today. Energy security has been at the heart of most articles. The size is consistent in the view that we should not base our energy policy on imports but have a balance between production and consumption. With one exception, all parties also agree that our main environmental policy challenge is climate change. This is a good starting point for today's debate. Norwegian energy supply has become more vulnerable to precipitation failures than before. From having a surplus of power in a year of normal rainfall at the beginning of the 1990s, we have today, as several speakers have pointed out, a deficit in the power balance even in a normal year. With the resources we have in Norway, we are very wrong if this development just continues. The importance of security of supply and the environment means that the balance between own production and consumption needs to be given great attention in the future. The Government will therefore facilitate increased power generation by actively investing in environmentally friendly forms of energy. It is still important to exploit the established hydropower capacity through, inter alia, exploit the potential of upgrading existing hydropower plants. There is also a significant potential for the construction of both small, mini and micro power plants. But we're too one-sidedly dependent on hydropower. It is therefore also necessary to focus on energy efficiency improvement and new renewable energy sources. We must ensure that we have a more varied energy system without harmful emissions. The government will therefore increase Enova’s overall energy saving and renewable energy targets. We have a great potential for new renewable energy sources, such as renewable energy sources. wind, bioenergy, sun, wave and tide power. The government will also work to facilitate increased environmentally friendly use of natural gas both for power generation and for direct use in industry and households. This together will contribute to a more varied and thus less vulnerable energy supply. The Soria Moria Declaration outlines an ambitious plan to realise CO2 management and create a value chain for CO2 related to gas power. It is absolutely necessary that this theme be properly followed up. The question of gas power has been a key issue of energy policy since Natural Power in 1996 promoted the application to build gas power plants. Since that time, there have been many investigations, not least from the Oil Directorate, which have concluded that there is a significant technical potential for CO2 injection for increased extraction on Norwegian soil. It is a demanding task to meet the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration. However, unlike previous governments, this government will take on the challenge of helping to solve one of the major environmental problems, namely climate change, while helping to increase oil extraction on Norwegian soil. The work now under way by the Government will consist of concrete cooperation with stakeholders who are current suppliers of technology, as well as with potential sellers and buyers of CO2. I record that the opposition is impatient in terms of finding out who is going to pay the different shares of the costs. There is a need to establish the best possible basis for assessing the necessary extent of State exposure in setting up a value chain for CO2. This does not mean that the government intends to go back to realize this, but simply that we are going to do the job that is necessary. In 2006, a total of 20 million has been proposed. kr to start the necessary pre-worker. This will ensure the organisation of State involvement and shall take place within a sound legal and economic framework. Appropriations of 20 million. SEK comes in addition to the investment in technology development through Gassnova and research into CO2 management through the Research Council. Some words about the challenges on the base. The petroleum sector is of major importance for the Norwegian economy. Today we have used approx. 1/3 of the resources on the continental shelf. Therefore, Norwegian pedestal still has a lot to offer. It is our job to exploit Norway's natural potential for the best in the country. There's a lot of activity right now. Investments are record high and production levels are rapidly approaching an expected peak. In a longer-term perspective, I see two main challenges for the oil and gas business on a Norwegian base. Firstly, it is necessary to find new resources. Today we reap from the findings and investments made in the 1980s and 1990s. The second main challenge is to make the best use of the resources we have already identified. This involves increased extraction from the field of production, the development of findings made and the good use of the infrastructure offshore. Although the activity has been going on for 40 years, there is still a lot to pick up. I am therefore pleased that there is an overall committee that is behind the priority of increasing the appropriations for research in this area. It's a completely necessary increase if we're going to be able to achieve the ambitions we have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e135	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e138	The Council of State had a pointed-out speech focusing on key energy policy challenges facing the country. Governments have also been early out there and have announced that they will pay particular attention to power balance and security of supply in Norway. It's the Progress Party very pleased with. But even in a normal year, we have deficits in Norway. And in a dry year we can get into a production of about 90 TWh. It is clear that we do not have import capacity to offset such a deficit. Then my question is: What crisis plans and contingency plans does the Government actually have to maintain the power supply if – or should we say when – a drought occurs in this country? This is a fully relevant and real scenario to which the Government and the responsible authorities must have an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e143	Let me first repeat to Mr Andersen's main post that there has actually been a majority in this Chamber since 1996 to build gas power plants. The construction of gas power plants on Kårstø has now started, and there is no lack of will from this government that means that we have come into the situation we are today. It's a composite picture. So for security of supply and contingency plans. Firstly, in the next year, or early 2007, a new cable will be completed for the Netherlands, NorNed. This will increase import capacity a bit. The previous government started a job after the crisis we had in winter 2002/2003, among other things. to enter into agreements with industry to reduce consumption during periods of scarce energy availability. In many areas, we need to continue the work of the previous government. Now, fortunately, the situation is that for the current winter we are in a very good supply situation. We have much more water in the magazines than we normally have at this point, so for the winter that is coming, there's no need to be nervous. But this is a work that the Government takes very seriously in relation to the situation we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e152	I am very pleased that today, the Council of State of Enoxen states that Norway’s achievement of a balance of power is a very important priority for the Government. Then the Council of State also understands well that the opposition is impatient about the question of who should cover any extra cost of CO2 management. The reason why we are impatient with that is that this issue needs to be resolved in order to realise the gas power stations that are now waiting along the West Coast and up to Trundellag. Former State Council, Olav Akselsen, has spoken to the Newspaper: ‘The working party calls it a tragedy to Norway that the government is not doing anything to build the gas power stations. – With a more active government, gas power would now be built.” My question to the Danish State Council is: When it is decided that CO2 management of gas power plants is required, and the gas power plant builders say that they do not have the opportunity to cover such an extraction without there being a lack of economy in the project, can the State Council assure the Government that this requirement should not prevent the implementation of gas power plants and that the State sets out what is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e172	The Government definitely does not intend to deal with this in such a way as to prevent the construction of gas power plants on Kårstø, among other things, which are the gas power plant in operation. I assume that the quote the representative Burnde had from Olav Akselsen is a few months old, while the previous government was sitting. Because it is true that not so much was done to build this gas power plant. It is also well known that the undersigned has had a strong commitment to the precise clean-up of CO2 from gas power plants, in order to become a reality. That exposure has not become any less now. So the government's ambition is to establish a value chain, where we're going to increase oil extraction again as a result of CO2 management. It's an ambitious goal the government has set itself, but if we succeed, we as a nation will be able to get more out of CO2 management than any other country can get, and thus also get a positive economy out of it. So it shouldn't be on the government's will to solve this, I can promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e190	Oil production on Norwegian soil falls much more than expected, showing new figures. The Council of State therefore called for increased exploration activity on the weekend. Also in his post here today he says that one should try to find new deposits, and also increase the extraction rate. I then interpret the Council of State as meaning that increased exploration – in the hope of making new and big findings – will be prioritised forward by the Government, so that the Norwegian oil adventure can continue, and then at the expense of investing in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e195	Oil activity shall definitely not be at the expense of alternative energy investment. We're talking about two different things here. The government has great ambitions in terms of alternative energy and energy saving. It is absolutely necessary to ensure a force balance. As far as increased extraction is concerned, it is primarily about increased extraction in fields where we are already in the process of production. There are large values hidden in the fields that we're already doing, if we can increase the extraction rate. It's also a priority area. There will still be great resources in it will call for mature territory. It is necessary to make findings in relation to existing installations, while the installations are still on the base. We're talking little things. We are talking about tail production, and therefore also the need to get the small findings while the installations are in place. Otherwise there won't be any profitability in doing that. That's why this is going to be a special priority from the Government's future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e203	The Council of State said in its statement that the new government will invest more in CO2 clean-up and CO2 management. They call the fact that once the budget has been adopted, the new government parties will spend $5 million. kr less on this than the batches that constituted the Cooperative Government would use. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government wants a state company to be responsible for creating a value chain for the transport and injection of CO2. In the State budget, the operational responsibility for this is not addressed. In a letter to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Oil and Energy, various organisations have called for Petoro to be responsible for coordinating this work. Does the Council of State agree that Petoro is most suitable for this important task? And when can this question be clarified? It is urgent to get started, even if emissions at Kårstø are not to be cleaned by 2009 but during 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e221	I noticed that the representative of Kvassheim in his main post earlier today was very offensive about what the opposition has done after they left the government offices. So the investment that Kvassheim is now referring to, you were not able to make while you were in government. Then the priority was to tax havens. So you didn't have the bet that this government has. It was not possible to set aside money for CO2 management. It was not possible to land on the issue of relapse — it was up in the debate earlier today — that one has had four years to do. It was not possible to establish an industrial power regime. And I would rather believe that you would not spend any money on buying Western Vollane, which has been a theme today. The previous government has also spent less money on the environment than this government does. So despite that, Gunnar Kvassheim has been doing very well to keep the tab very high in today's debate. It'll be on Gunnar Kvassheim's account. We've seen the budget that the previous government put forward, and we know what they stood for. During these days, the government is taking a decision on the organisation of CO2 management. We will come back to that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e234	The centre party has lost many important heart issues in negotiations on Soria Moria – and in the other debate. When you look at the predatory problem around Elverum, it's in itself proof that the Senter party has not been listened to. In addition, we also see that the requirement for a protective break has been put in a drawer. I record that the representative Mr. Borten Moe refers the liming policy to the Government as offensive, despite the fact that they cut at 30 p.m. And the representative Borten Moe has already shown that he thrives so badly in the socialist company that he starts begging the Christian People's Party and the Left to enter into a cooperation – not because you need the voices, but probably because you need some like-minded people. The representative tried to make small-scale energy policy very offensive. Then I get very curious. I hope that the Council of State can explain what measures the Government is planning to take to ensure that the small-scale energy policy becomes as offensive as the representative Mr. Borten Moe wants, in relation to the restrictive policy they have put forward in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e241	You can't have read the Soria Moria statement in particular when it's claimed that the Center Party has lost a lot of important things. I just want to remind you of the massive increase in the municipal economy that we see next year, and the importance it will have in relation to investing in very many of the areas that we have spent time discussing today. There is also no defensive position in the Soria Moria statement on bets, also on small power plants, mini-power plants and micro-power plants. What's going on is what's going to be included in the green certificates. But it says that the potential that lies within this should be exploited within an environmentally sound framework. There are more instruments. We have the Energy Fund as an alternative, at Enova. We're working on green certificates to look at the design of it and what it will mean. So if we take something out of the certification system, but keep the Energy Fund, the Energy Fund could put it even more heavily on the energy sources that remain in the Energy Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e248	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e251	Environmental and climate issues are among the most important challenges facing us in our modern age. That's why we're happy that the current government, based on the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, has this as one of its main fields of action. It is also gratifying to discuss this matter two days after the difficult climate negotiations in the United Nations in Montreal ended with a consensus that is in line with the wishes of very many environmental friends. The Norwegian delegation, led by the Minister for the Environment, made a good figure for Norway as an environmentally friendly nation that will endure its global commitments to contribute to the improvement of the climate. We are aware that in no other case are countries more dependent on each other than in environmental and climate issues. All countries depend on each other to make an improvement here. It is possible for a country’s population to live without taking other countries’ material goods into account. Some may be poor right next to the rich countries. Our borders give us the opportunity and the right to live independently of others within our borders. But the environment and climate have no borders. The air is moving across borders without showing respect for border controls, and without taking a trip into customs, if it carries too much CO2. The smoke that spits out of the pipes in one country moves exactly the way and towards the country it will without needing a visa, and the acidic precipitation that descends into our rivers and lakes does not need to seek asylum in order to be where it is. This helps to emphasise that taking care of the environment and the climate is a global responsibility that all depend on. That's why I and the Workers' Party believe that our international commitment, whether it's through the Kyoto agreement or unhelp, is helping to secure our close surroundings as well. We know that we have a great responsibility, but we also know that all big things start with small actions. Our local choices are premissive of global development. The current government is doing what the majority of the people in Norway want, namely to invest heavily in the environment. Another area that the Government has highlighted, and which delights us, is the work of strengthening the outdoors. Not only is 2005 declared the Year of Outdoor Life, but we also know that outdoor life is a source of quality of life, recreation and better public health. There is no concealment that an active outdoor life requires an effort on the part of the authorities to facilitate the use of many of the natural areas by the community. The exercise of active open-air living depends on the right of all persons. Therefore, it is important that this is not impaired and that continuous efforts are made to ensure that the rights of all persons are strong both in the legal and in the general sense. Maintaining universal access and ensuring access to key natural areas by the general public is very important. In order to expand the open air areas, it is important that the State allocates appropriate state properties for outdoor purposes, but the State also needs to purchase properties in order to provide joint access to them, including: Beach zones. Therefore, there was great joy in Oslo when the sitting government as one of its first acts went out and bought a property on Bygdøy in Oslo to give the public access to the beach zone which was long closed with large fences, since it was private property. This shows that the Government has initiated a process in which the public and the community have something to enjoy in the coming time. After this purchase it has been claimed from some teams that the State has made a wrong purchase. But from Oslo's point of view, it was a very loving and good act, because there is no doubt that the coastal zone in the eastern region has been eaten up for a bit by private people in recent years, which has reduced public access. Finally, I would say that if you divide 30 million. kr – as this property at Bygdøy cost – to the population living in Oslo, it is no more than 56 kr per year. the population. NOK 56 per year. The population for access to the beach zone is not a high price if we weigh it against the value of access to natural areas by ordinary people in their immediate vicinity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e271	The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e274	In some areas, this debate has been exciting. We've got some clarifications. Firstly, I am pleased with the positive signals, as I interpret Council of State Bjørnøy, in relation to the requirements for CO2 management at future gas power plants. This was a step in the right direction, as the Christian People's Party sees it. Furthermore, we have had a debate on the overall management plan and, where appropriate, new angles/spinnings thereof. The terms ‘protection plan’, ‘industrial plan’ or ‘action plan’ used in the hall today are approaches, as I see them, which are not going to be correct. The term ‘a comprehensive management plan’ describes some of what we are going to be presented to us, namely a whole. It is a whole with perhaps four major sub-areas – there are consequences for the petroleum industry, it is fisheries, it is shipping, and it is the external influences. These four sub-areas are to be included in what we are to be presented with. After all, the aim of the management plan must be to establish a framework for balancing industrial, maritime and petroleum interests in the context of sustainable development. That is why I am very pleased that the representative Sørensen explains in the debate that what this government is doing is just following up the political leadership of the former government. In political quarters a week ago, it was said that the treatment of the overall management plan and the 19th concession round would go more or less parallel. Since this was said by a responsible state council, I trust this, otherwise it will be unfortunate, as the Christian People's Party sees it, to deal with the management plan after the 19th concession round has been decided in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e286	I registered from the Environment Minister's answer to my question in the reply box that the Government will not commit itself to the SV's objective of that more than 50 pst. the Kyoto obligation shall be taken at home. This means that in another environmental matter, we see that the government's policy falls on a different side of the fence than the SV's policy. That is the case in the case of petroleum-free zones, the interpretation of ‘in 2009’ and the clean-up of emissions from gas power plants, and thus in this area in the case of the Kyoto obligations. I think the Minister for the Environment is ambitious on the road in terms of the climate challenges, but very unclear at home. In the debate we have had today, the terms ‘Protection Plan’ and ‘Industrial Plan’ have been used on the Northern Region Management Plan. Governments have used the concept of a ‘defence plan’. I am recording that Tore Nordtun says that using the term ‘protection plan’ if the management plan is a misunderstanding. It would be interesting to hear the agreement of the Minister for the Environment and how she considers ‘industrial plan’ to be a comprehensive indication of the plan to be sorted between industry and fish in the north. The Council of State was also concerned that tax policies could be used to improve environmental policy. It could be interesting for the Stortinget to hear briefly about the changes she sees in tax policy in order to achieve the desired change in environmental behaviour. In his post, Ola Borten Moe said that in any case, the new government is not going to do anything worse than what the old man did in the case of small power plants, so there can be no damage. It is a fundamental misunderstanding. The previous government made it clear that small-scale power plants would be included in the scheme of green certificates. A number of actors have taken this into account and have started work on concrete projects. What has now arisen is a ambiguity that has led to strong reactions from large parts of District Norway, and it is, of course, based on realities on which these people are very conscious. Finally, I would like to say that we are drawing the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left on Western Vollane, as it is almost identical to what constitutes the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e301	I want to assume that this year it is the year of Outdoor Life. There is a touching consensus between – I think – all parties that the right we as residents of this country, and to the extent that visitors, have to use the land in Norway, it must be established. At that point, the consensus is very broad. But when you come to practical arrangements for us to practise our outdoor life, there are, on the contrary, some of the clearest lines of Norwegian policy. I have heard more people here today who have used the Bolärne case in Westfold as an example in environmental policy. It was very obvious. There was a strong commitment among politicians in Westfold, with the head of the county rapporteur, and among many people in Westfold when we realized that the Right philosophy was to sell a public property that is a pearl on the coast of Westfold, at the market price – i.e. to the one that has the most to town – yes, then the reaction was strong. Therefore, we are very pleased that we were able to turn that case around so that the island instead benefited the public. But there was a very clear distinction here, by letting those who have the greatest ability to pay go ahead of the public interest in the area. That island is rocked for the future, for the community. But there's a clear difference: we know that the Vestfold Workers' Party has been among those who have been on the verge of getting more money to buy properties along the coast, and that we're going to use legal assistance to the municipalities to preserve public rights, while we know that the Right's corresponding organisational team is going in order for the County to have less authority to stop exemptions for the reduction of the beach zone. There's the differences. I wish that the right, just as the representative Børge Brende has expressed it in other contexts, could also think about using the precautionary principle. Because if the coastal zone is built up, it's built up once and for all, and the possibility for the public to use it is gone. In those cases, there are people who refuse to do so. It is either that individuals are allowed to build, that the public refuses to use, or that individuals refuse to build, and that allows the public to use those areas for the future. The question is, who are we going to be next to? For our part, the elections are clear: we support public access to the coast. I am glad that the government clearly signals it and everything has granted the first heads to get further on that road.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e308	Carnivores are engaged. If you want more, it'll get involved if you want fewer. Some will not have predators at all, while others will have unlimited predators. This way, we'll never agree which number will be the right one. As a district representative from Hedmark with both hunters, buffers, small children’s families – or anyone – around me, I see predators reduce our quality of life. They simply create anxiety and fear. Hunters dare not let go or use their dogs. Farmers must have the most expensive animals at home. Infant parents dare not let their children play wherever they want, etc. This means that we live on the predators' premises. The predator I'm thinking about specifically is the wolf. Even though there are both you, bear and gloat, the wolf creates fear of importance. The other animals are to live with – and are in a smaller number. In a newspaper article in the Nations on Friday, October 28, we read: ‘Elverum resembles a wolf reserve’ All 14 wolves were observed. It's no wonder that this creates something -- or maybe a lot -- fear. In a wolf count in a slightly larger area a few days later, nearly 30 wolves could be recorded. It goes without saying that to run with e.g. sheep on the outback are not going to be easy. Whatever you do or get support for, the predator damage will be great. The wolf must have food, and it will leave your dining area. That is why we need to grant permission for killing according to what we want in this area – something else would be to say that only the wolf should be here. It's about district policy, really. When the nutritional basis is already marginal, the gifts of nature are too important for the predators to destroy it. As border counties, Hedmark and several other counties are particularly badly placed — because Sweden has an even more liberal predatory policy than Norway. Here the number of wolves is a lot higher. Some of these wolves are border animals. that one day they are on the Swedish side and the next day on the Norwegian side. This, of course, creates great frustration on the Norwegian side. I hope that the Council of State will look at this problem, and that she can make Sweden realize that a large Swedish predator tribe is a major problem on the Norwegian side. This is about the quality of life and about living in the future from buffs and from what nature can provide from hunting opportunities and other experiences, so that people will be able to live in the districts in the future. Otherwise, I may be tempted to ask the following question: Where is the Central Party as a government party in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e331	There's going to be a lot of wolf here -- hopefully not in this room, but at least mentioned from the pulpit. I'll start with something else. When this debate hears how little is left of the Centre Party's environmental positions, I have a great deal of understanding that the centre party representative Ola Borten Moe in his reply to the Christian People's Party chose to attack the Progress Party. But when I hear claims such as that the Progress Party is a party – I quote from the line from Ola Borten Moe – ‘who believes that escaped farmed salmon is only an enrichment for the biodiversity of our rivers’, I have to say that such a play would I wish we had not heard from this speaker. When Ola Borten Moe, together with the committee leader, Kvassheim, the representative, Torny Pedersen, of the Workers' Party and Government Council, Bjørnøy, shows such concern for the wild species, I find it worth recalling that the Directorate of Nature Management in its annual stock reports points to nine threats to the wild species. Acidification is clearly the most serious threat. Gyrodactylus salaris threatens the wild axis in 24 rivers, and acidification threatens in 39 rivers. On this basis, I urge the government parties to agree to proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, on the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris, and proposal No. 14, from the Progress Party, to ensure the continuation of the liming projects under way. On predators, I would say that there can be no doubt that the presence of 24 wolves in the district around Elverum must be seen as a threat to – and I quote from the Soria Moria Declaration – ‘the quality of life of people in predatory areas’. Then I will quote from the Nations on 13 January 2005. It's about rematching the predatory settlement. Inger S. Enger from the Center Party says: ‘In the first instance, we need to continue the compromise that was reached. But there will certainly be rematches on our part here.""When the conflicts get big," she says. And she goes on to say, "I can't say a certain date, but the fights come when the conflicts get big, and if you don't really deal with this." [[open]] I would have liked a representative from the Central Party to ask for the floor for an article and to reply to the following: If the Ministry of the Environment does not meet the appeal for hunting wolf in Elverum, has the time come for a counter-breeding of predatory policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e353	Let me say that the debate we have had here today has been quite powerless, and that it does not give rise to any great optimism about the further energy policy for our nation. Either the Government will or will not, it will have to take the reality into account: in the last 15 years, Norwegian electricity consumption has increased by over 16 pst, while production capacity has only increased by about 4.5 pst. And I repeat: the result of the dramatic increase in the imbalance between consumption and electricity generation is that the world's sixth largest hydroelectric power producer, Norway, is completely unable to cover its own electricity consumption in a normal year and must rely on imports from polluting Danish coal power plants. It's not to believe. Therefore, I have recorded with great concern that, while the need for increased power generation has become increasingly precarious in Norway, changing Norwegian governments and large-scale economies – instead of focusing on how the country can increase power generation – have been concerned about preventing and limiting new power deployments, protecting as many watercourses as possible from power deployment and creating the most difficult possible framework for the construction of profitable gas power plants in Norway. I would also like to mention the Upper Otta, the Sauda extension and – last but not least – the protection of the Wefsna as well as the addition of the Protective Plan for Watercourses, which was adopted here in Stortinget on 18 February. Then you protected a whole of 7 TWh, which corresponds to a lot more power than what you've been able to build out in this country in the last 15 years. In a single decision in February this year, the bulk of population protected more force than this nation has been able to expand over 15 years. So protection has become more important than power in Norway. Now the International Energy Agency, the IEA, is also warning of an increase in world energy consumption of 50 pst. The next 25 years, and the vast majority of the world's nations are facing one of the greatest challenges of history: ensuring their countries enough energy supply. Norway is thus among the most fortunate. We have resources that far exceed our national energy consumption. So Norway has about today. 1 pst. of the population of the European Union, but we are at 60 pst. of oil resources, 40 pst. of the gas resources and 20 pst. of hydropower resources in Europe. Nevertheless, we have managed to bring ourselves into the critical situation that in a normal year we ourselves are unable to supply 4.6 million people with electricity. It can't go on like that. The Progress Party requires a much more ambitious energy policy, and, as far as the debate today is concerned, I just have to say that this unfortunately does not mean that the country is facing a necessary improvement in energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e364	I'm going to start by correcting the misunderstanding that's between me and Tord Lien. He's right when he clarifies that he probably hasn't said that this represents a enrichment. What was actually said was that to the extent that escaped farmed salmon represents a problem, nature itself would make sure that poor genetic material went out – in any case, it is an original approach to the problem, and I will make sure to express myself more precisely in the future. What has been one of the major debates in the autumn has been about public access to land and the role of the state to secure it. It's been a wonderful debate, because what I thought would be a traditional approach to this problem from different parties, has been turned upside down. This debate has tried to argue that securing the beach zone in Oslo through the purchase of the property at Huk is hopeless, while spending 112 million. on the other hand, buying hunting and fishing rights on Hardangervidda is imperative. What is most perceptive is the doubt that the former government parties have raised as to whether private property rights can be a good starting point for public access to foreign resources. And the fact that the Right chooses to go to the front for such argumentation and hurts more doubt and creates what I would call a sort of fear, where one concludes that state property is the only salutary, it's spectacular, nothing else. We warn in this budget that legislation should be reviewed with a view to reviewing concession law. Price adjustments can be assessed, and here they are the same as on the agricultural side: you can assess the right of municipalities to impose concession conditions on transfers. These are instruments that the previous government has deprived of the administration, and it has therefore encouraged the development that has now been seen, where a few private, large companies can engulf large foreign resources. Then to predators. There we have been challenged by the Progress Party: Where is the Senter Party in the predatory debate? We have – for the reader of the Soria Moria Declaration – put in place quite major adjustments to predatory policies. There are better populations, there is a more efficient collection of pests, there is a need to maintain today's compensation rules for predatory losses. And I have great faith that if you see the adaptations that are in predatory policy, in relation to the predatory settlement that the Senter party was not part of in this hall, you would get a long step further, and no matter how much longer than your Advance Party has managed to bring this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e375	The party of progress, the Christian People's Party, the Left and Right have a proposal, no. 4, where we ‘ask the Government to promote a big message on chemical use and environmental toxicities’. I am asking the Minister of Environmental Protection from the Chair of the United Kingdom to confirm that the Government has concrete plans to promote such a communication during the spring session. If that results in correctness, we will refuse to have such a proposal put under voting here in the Chamber, because that is actually unnecessary. I think it is important that we take this up with chemical policy, and that we have now also been able to establish Norwegian chemicals policy and the premises around it, while at the same time the European Union is preparing the REACH Directive, which the Council of State has also stated earlier. At the same time, I think it would make sense if the Minister for the Environment had said a few words about Norwegian climate policy – not only out, but also at home. It is true, as the committee leader stressed in his statement, that the Environment Minister had high flags in Montreal. I did not intend to address this question, but I have registered that the Council of State stated the following to the evening post in a large-scale interview on 30 November: ‘The previous government had a far too passive approach. But the time for great words is now past." She also stated that ‘and yes, we need to dare to implement strong measures to achieve results’. So you have to be much better than the previous government, and it has to be a strong act in relation to greenhouse gases. Now Norway has increased its greenhouse gas emissions by 9 pst. based on 1990, and we have had the opportunity to increase in relation to the Kyoto Protocol by 1 pst. When the Council of State then says that the time for the big words is over and that the previous government was not concrete enough, I would ask: how will the Minister of the Environment promote a concrete policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and how should this be better than the policy of the previous government? I have to say that we did what we could, but it may not have been good enough. That's why I'm very excited to hear not only how to promote this kind of policy in Montreal, that is, internationally, but what the concrete actions the Government puts up with are. And how big – I think we have a claim to know – are these Norwegian greenhouse gas reductions going to be? How big are they supposed to be? At least we have to get one direction in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e389	In my main post, I called for clarification and clarification of the Government's position in several areas. The subsequent debate, on the other hand, has been marked by three government parties that strangle with self-satisfaction, and by the use of natural and large words industriously. All questions about deepening the government's policy are answered with claims that the government has an offensive policy – one believes that this is an answer well enough. I don't agree. There's a lot of things you can point at. The government maintains the uncertainty as to who will eventually pay for CO2 management for gas power plants. The government says it should contribute financially, but does not explain how much. Meanwhile, the industry is waiting. The government refuses to say whether they will guarantee full State funding for the main gas infrastructure. The Soria Moria statement mentions that the State will participate in the funding together with private actors, but does not state the amount or the proportion of private actors in the project. In the opposition, the Labour Party had enough money even though the project had not even begun to be investigated, but in position they are sitting in the same position and say wait and see. No clarifications have been provided regarding petroleum-free zones and management plan. Nor has there been any clarification as to whether the designated areas in the 19th concession round are guaranteed not to be protected. It is still uncertain how Statnett should be funded for upgrading the mains power grid, even though several workers’ party representatives have talked about the need for this. We do not know how fate becomes for small power plants, where even the leader of the Central Party has admitted that the Soria Moria declaration is contradictory. The government has not presented a credible solution to the acute need for more force in Middle Norway. It is nice that representatives of the government parties interpret the Soria Moria Declaration offensively, but I deal with the statements of the government council until the government parties impose new positions on the government. I doubt it's going to happen in the next few years. In this budget, government parties have not even dared to reverse the big cut in liming, which they have spoken for all the years in opposition. I record that the representative Borten Moe and others are still satisfied with what they call an offensive bet on liming, despite a cut of 30 p.m. Finally, I notice that it has been a cross-political goal to dissociate the Progress Party in climate policy. I'm not completely familiar with the black-and-white-manufacturing that's drawn up by the Progress Party's policy. What I'm really most amazed at is that the other parties first say that man-made CO2 emissions are the greatest environmental threat to the world. They then talk about the importance of maintaining Norwegian oil and gas exports, leading to increased global CO2 emissions. It seems to me that the joy of attacking the Progress Party transcends the ability to critically review the whole in its own positions. I'm sorry. There is currently little evidence that a majority government implies a better energy and environmental policy. The debate we have had today shows that the Government is unable to formulate concrete and predictable positions. This, of course, provides the basis for some fun debates in Stortinget over the next three and a half years, but on behalf of Norwegian energy and petroleum industry, it is a great disappointment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e417	I just want to comment on the representative Mr. Børge Burnde mentioned regarding the notification. I said in my post today that I want to present my own biggest message on chemicals and chemicals. It's a theme that the Government is very concerned about, and that it's important for us to get properly caught up in. Another area I would like to comment on is climate-related issues. It's true that it's important for us to be active both internationally and nationally. This is why the Government has started work on sectoral climate action plans and also sectoral targets. This will focus on the work on renewable energy sources and energy saving. In addition, we have been concerned that in the transport sector we will invest more in biofuels. The CO2 management of Kårstø and any other future gas power plants are important. We are also concerned about what municipalities can contribute by reducing emissions. So we are already running in a number of areas to ensure that we get a more offensive reduction in greenhouse gas emissions also nationally. The last thing I want to mention is related to the action plan for the control of the Gyro salmon parasite. I want to assure the Storting that this area is the Government very concerned, and we will come back to Stortinget as soon as possible with a detailed explanation of the action plan to combat Gyro.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e429	It was the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen who made me speak, as he now spoke against the sitting government and the majority in the main hall. I am by no means surprised, but I am surprised at the frivolity of taking the floor in such a case. The Progress Party, as the only party in the Main Hall and soon as the only party in the Western world does not see that we have climate challenges, does not see that we have challenges in this area that we have to deal with and that we have to solve both nationally and internationally. They're pushing it aside. Yeah, then it's very easy to be a politician. In addition, we are almost not going to take national measures to put this in place. But then it's not good enough either. We're not going to do that either. Yes, I must say that a person lives in a world of reality that the great majority is not in. Then it's easy. Furthermore, in the case of the petroleum industry, and in the case of that sector, which is being criticised very much, we have said that we should maintain employment, search activities, etc. both in the North Sea, the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. This government has put forward concrete measures in a number of areas concerning CO2, domestic use of gas, value chains, etc. The previous government didn't do that at all. We have said this is a four-year plan. So the Progress Party also criticises that the market is not working well enough now. No one is more liberal in terms of the Energy Act than the Progress Party. We have taken this into account and said that we want to do something about the power contracts for the industry. We will address the issue of the right of return. It's quite amazing to hear such statements from the Progress Party. The Progress Party should sit down and read further and stronger and more thorough the platform underpinning the Government and supported by the majority of this Assembly. It's going to be implemented in this four-year period, but now we've only been on for four weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e439	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e442	I note that the Minister for the Environment, on questions from Børge Burnde, on what is the much more offensive policy, only lists points which are established with broad consensus and which are a continuation of the policy of the previous government. I will challenge the Council of State to come up with what is new from the new government, and what represents a more offensive policy. Indeed, the example of blending biofuels is precisely a continuation of what the previous government took into account with increased incorporation at specified years. It would have been useful for the Storting to hear in which areas you will go further and have greater ambitions than the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e447	The representative Børge Burnde has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e450	In the light of the answers given by the Minister for the Environment, we draw our proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox We look forward to receiving a big message about chemicals for treatment and hope, of course, that it may be presented during the spring session. I notice that we did not receive any insurance about this, but we have to take note of that. Of course, the important thing is that the message gets good. The better it is that it comes as soon as possible, as it can have a greater influence on the development of the REACH Directive in the EU context. Then I have also noticed the representative of Kvassheim now, that offensive national climate policy, which was obviously deficient by the previous government, boiled something in the mouth of the Environment Minister's posts. We will see what measures are now coming to meet the guarantee given by the Council of State in the Evening Post that Norway will also make reductions in its greenhouse gas emissions. We'll have new opportunities to get back to that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e458	The representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice and gets the word for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e461	I just have an answer to the Nordtun representative. I have no problem that Nordtun has a lot of ambitious goals, but what I have called for several times in the debate is the concrete instruments. For example, how much is the contribution to be made by the State from those to build CO2 management facilities? It's pretty important if someone is going to venture to invest billions of dollars at all. Even LO has said that if the state does not take 100 pst., no gas power plant will be built in Norway. There I still miss a clarification and notice that the representative Nordtun once again avoided going into reality. I am also willing to participate in another climate debate. I can discuss the climate, but then we have to take it in another debate. The position of the Progress Party is quite simple: if we are to have climate action in Norway, they should be 100 pst. integrated with the EU, so that Norwegian business does not have a worse framework and competitive edge than our European competitors. We see that today's government and the previous government are not willing to join, even though I thought that the Workers' Party was initially an EU-friendly party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e471	Let me thank you for a good debate, and let me thank you for a debate that has been about the environment, with many good and committed contributions. I'm glad we have a living climate debate in Stortinget. We need that, because the challenges we're facing are giants. I am also pleased with the commitment that many of the speakers today have shown to take care of biodiversity in Norway. It's about wild rain, mountain reefs and taking care of the values we have in our forests. It promises well for the cooperation we will have in Stortingen on environmental and energy issues in the future. I'm really glad that there's such a large majority that we're going to get a value chain for CO2. It's a work this government has to do. We're not going to make it because it's easy, because we also have respect for the fact that there were many forces in the previous government that worked hard to get to it, but it's a little tempting to say that we're going to make it because it's hard. We're determined that this is a problem we're going to solve. Then we know that we want to track down environmental history, not just nationally, but internationally, if we can get that technology up and running. Let me end with a sentence from the Soria Moria statement that I'm especially pleased with, and I hope we can show that we can live up to. That's what we're saying. «Nature shall be safeguarded for the future because we as human beings depend on it, but also because it has value in itself.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e488	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. [[Fotation, see page 779]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e496	Then we go to voting on case No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e504	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 2, 3, 5 and 6, by Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Drafts No. 7–16, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have been withdrawn during the debate. The President first mentions the non-framework proposals, the proposals No. 7–16, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e591	Proposals Nos. 2, 3, 5 and 6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e1935	There is an aberrant proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. That is proposal No. 1, which reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e3274	The proposal for a decision under Framework Area No is now being debated. 12th@item: inlistbox The President has understood it so that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left now vote subsidiaryly for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e5246	There is an aberrant proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. It is also proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e7253	There is now a vote on the proposal for a decision in the framework area 13. The President understands it so that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will also vote here for the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e7271	During the debate, Mr Kvassheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refrain from acquiring Schiøtt’s road 8 in Oslo and instead to use the proposed additional allocation for 2005 in Chapter 8. 1427 item 30 Acquisitions by the State, allocation of 31 million open air areas. crowns for the acquisition of properties which, on the basis of a professional assessment, give a greater gain in terms of better access for the general public to natural areas in press areas than a purchase of that property would give. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-12-2.ana.ud106e7326	During the debate, Mr Kvassheim put forward a proposal which has since been drawn up.
