ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e57	The representative of Bjørg Tørresdal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e60	On behalf of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I will put forward a proposal on enhanced legislation against pornography.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e65	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will inform you that if the debates on the matters listed are to be completed before 1 p.m. 15, however, voting will not take place until the evening meeting for the support of John I. Alvheim today, so that everyone who is there can reach the vote. The President hopes that the Storting will agree with that. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e83	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 841]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e99	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 842]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e115	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 842]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e131	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two parts, so as to deal first with the framework area 3, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Churches, and then with the framework area 2, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each of the debates be limited to 85 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e144	I would first like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control and for its excellent cooperation. I think it's the first time in history that all committee meetings in connection with the budget work of the family and culture committee have been held in the daytime, and that one has not used his night hours to help in the budget work. That's great, and all the honors of the committee for that. I expect the various parties to present their views and suggestions to the state budget, so I will concentrate on the Christian People's Party's views in my contribution. The Christian People's Party wants a cultural life that gives new impetus and stimulates creativity and innovation, while cultural policy helps to strengthen our cultural roots. Art and culture have a self-esteem. It is important to provide a rich and diverse cultural offer to the whole population. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Government and the Minister of Culture and the Church on a good budget for culture, which includes extra grants for many good purposes. The Christian People's Party is not satisfied with, is that many of the extra cultural crowns are taken from church purposes. It is particularly unfortunate at a time when these two purposes should not be set against each other. The Church has recently presented a cultural message, and the entire Committee feels that it is very positive that the Church focuses on its role as a cultural bearer. When there is then a great deal of agreement that diversity and freedom of belief are important, it is disappointing that the Minister of Culture and the Church cut in support of everything from Buddhist temples to church houses, as well as that the Government cuts significantly in support of the church councils. Since our alternative budget will not be adopted, we have chosen to make visible how the Christian People's Party wants to prioritise within the framework proposed by the new government – and have proposals along with the Right and Left in the vote. Here, the Christian People's Party has prioritised additional funding for the coordination of archives, libraries and museums, for skills building actions for the culture of the people, for the Norwegian Theatre Council, for the Audio and Picture Foundation, for multicultural activities, for the Norwegian Sculptor Centre and for the follow-up to the Church's own cultural message, "The Art of Being a Church". The Christian People's Party is occupied by the institutions that manage society's cultural heritage: archives, libraries and museums. These institutions represent a collective memory of society which, alongside the language as a social phenomenon, forms much of the basis for all technological and social development, for all human-made culture. They are important sources of understanding our common history and culture. It is an important political goal to create a so-called seamless library where knowledge and information flow freely throughout the library network. It is important that the consolidation of museums can continue, and it is important that archives are given the opportunity to secure their material in the future. The archives have special challenges, not least in connection with the transition to electronic archiving, but also with the need to take care of the large amount of private archive material that has been subject to too little consideration. Follow-up to the ABM reform is the most important cultural policy reform in the last decade. The reform has both helped to improve resource use and, above all, increased the quality of services and the provision to the public. Voluntary organisations are the very foundation of an active cultural life in most communities. Voluntary organisations are important value and tradition intermediaries, not least to children and young people. Good framework conditions are essential if they are to continue to be able to play this key role in society. Improved conditions for voluntary organisations have therefore long been an important issue for the Christian People's Party. We have strengthened the revenue base of the voluntary sector through the tax exemption scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations and the VAT compensation scheme, and we have given the Ministry of Culture and the Church overall responsibility for voluntary policy. Otherwise, I find it a pity that voluntary organisations will not benefit from an increase in the tax exemption for gifts – from NOK 12 000 to NOK 15 000 – a proposal that is not adopted. There are several challenges in the media field. One of them is to maintain the good press support system to help maintain the diversity of newspaper publications in terms of both value anchoring, geography and content. Another is linked to an increasing interest in creating and producing films around the country. Several new film environments are under construction in different regions. The Norwegian film policy has, as you know, been in the cast for a long time. The conversion of the film policy that has been implemented in recent years has undoubtedly contributed to the vitalisation of the film industry, which has once again produced better Norwegian films, increased public awareness and increased self-financing. Norway has two written languages that are formally equivalent, yet are under constant pressure such as languages of use and professional languages in key social areas. It is important that work is strengthened in the field of neo-Nordic language, literature and culture. Then I would like to make those suggestions in the position where the Christian People's Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e172	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e177	In the context of the Culture Communication, most people now know that the Red-Green parties made proposals on the Cultural Promise. In this regard, when the Council of State of the Christian People's Party and the representatives of the Christian People's Party commented that there was no particular difference between what the Bondevik II government meant and what the red-green felt. It is repeatedly stated in the Culture Communication that a monthly increase was desired in most purposes, but that it would take ‘ahold’ of the economic stand. In the election campaign, we were repeatedly told how sparkly it was in the Norwegian economy, and we agree with that. What, then, is the reason why the Christian People's Party in Bondevik II's draft budget did not find room for 'a monthly increase'? What is going to happen in the economic situation and what changes are going to be made to ‘a monthly increase’ in the field of culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e184	The cultural message of the previous government showed offensive efforts in the field of culture. During the Cooperation Government there was also a significant increase within the cultural field. There was more money, more money, for culture. Then the new government has come with an additional increase. It's great that there's even more money for culture, but what you also have to look at is the impact on these things. It's also so that the new government has cut a number of areas that would be negative. When e.g. This is due to gifts to voluntary teams and organizations, we had added up to an increase, but the new government has not opted for an increase. We know that it would have given billions to voluntary teams and organizations, because people had been taxed for their gifts. Even when it comes to the other things that the new government has cut, in relation to the church purposes, we think it's unfortunate. But I look forward to a still good and offensive cultural debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e189	In the last four years, many municipalities have been able to reduce their supply of culture and leisure. This has meant that many children and young people have had a poorer cultural and leisure supply. 50 youth clubs were laid down only in the last year of the Christian People's Party in government. The question to the representative Molvær Grimstad is: Is she satisfied with the efforts of the Christian People's Party in government in this area, and what is the Christian People's Party going to do to improve the leisure provision for children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e196	I share Sande's commitment to children and young people and this to youth clubs. The Christian People's Party has been involved in increasing bets when it comes to big cities – compared to young people in the largest cities. It has been focused on different measures, but one of them is how the municipalities manage their funds, and what they prioritise within the framework of their approach. While it is important to have a liberal local economy, it is also important to pursue an industrial policy that gives one a business life that creates jobs and gives tax revenue to the municipality. I thought the center part would put a one-sided emphasis on just distributing. We also have to create, and the best way we can get good growth conditions in the municipality is to have a business that goes, and that we have a tax policy that facilitates it. By creating jobs, there is also a tax revenue that is involved and increases the well-being and cultural provision of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e203	The opposition says that now there's going to be a new form of cultural debate, and in the evening post we could read that in the future we're not going to have a discussion about plus and minus in the case of crowns, but we're going to have an ideological settlement between the opposition and the new red-green government partners. But I have to say that when I read the attitude of the cultural budget, it's hard to see where the ideological divisions go. The ideological debate we're going to have in the next few years is not, as I see it, between, for example. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, but internally between the former government parties Christian People's Party and the Right. Because it's really somewhere you're going to have an ideological settlement, it's on the press, and I could imagine getting a comment from the representative Molvær Grimstad, whether or not she's really going to take an ideological settlement with the Right now on whether or not you want to have meaningful newspapers in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e208	There is a great deal of agreement about many of the things in the budget setting. Where I think that an ideological discussion can be more likely, when it comes to the money that is devoted to culture, which is the cultural committee's responsibility, and the money that is devoted to church and education, which another committee has as its responsibility. What is a bit alarming is that when the minister of the Church and of culture increases the privileges of culture, he cuts so heavily for church purposes. It seems like it's easier to get money if you plan a rally race than if you're going to have a building for church purposes. Here we're kind of adding up to discussions, and we'll follow closely how the new government wants to prioritize these purposes in the future. In the case of press support, I share the Gjul's commitment with the representative. It's important to have a frequent and emerging press.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e215	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e219	We're on track for a new and better reality to be found not so far from here. It's hopefully in the vicinity of what the heart understands. This was written by the poet Kate Næss in "Blindgangere" published at Ashehoug in 1969. Yeah, we're on track. After four lean years, cultural life now experiences a new boost. The red-green parties opted for a cultural promise, and the new government has fulfilled the first part of the promise. 166 million more cultural crowns are in place, and we've come a little bit further on the way to achieving the 1 pst goal in 2014. At the same time, I have to remember the cultural debate last autumn where both the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party Ola T. Lånke accused us of overbidden policy when we proposed a corresponding increase in the budget, as the red-green government has now done. It tells us that we're serious about the cultural promise, and our ambitions are realistic. This is only about political will, and we are believed in, including by the cultural workers. Now we no longer hear that it is unrealistic, but that there is no profile of the escalation of the cultural budget by the red-green government; that it only lubricates thinly beyond for all good purposes. Anyone who knows the 15 points of the Cultural Lift will see that there is a clear profile on the basis of the increase: In the Soria Moria Declaration, we say that we should introduce a simple and general cultural law.We propose a 1-million grant. kr to launch the announced living conditions survey for artists.We will ensure that municipalities are significantly improved next year. This will have an impact on the municipal cultural effort and, among other things, on: ensure that many of the municipal cultural schools have better conditions. We're supporting the Norwegian film success by adding another $14 million. kr for film purposes.Our aim is to produce at least 20 long films each year, and 25 pst. the cinema search shall be in Norwegian films. We are therefore increasing production support, and at the same time we are increasing the allocation of regional film funds.We are facilitating a commitment to music, as we have said in point 6 of the cultural promise. We want to spend more money on the purchasing system for new Norwegian phonograms.We are stepping up the tour and organizer support for pop and rock to allow more people to experience music, and more venues are being developed. We give the first money to put in place a national scene for folk music and folk dance in Oslo, and money is spent on the pre-projecting of experience centers and networks for the dissemination of pop and rock history.As we have promised in the Cultural Promise, dance art also gets extra, and there is extra initiative on stage art.We also fix the cuts in Freefonds, and ensure that teams and organisations still get money on the state budget and not just through the key.We have an ambition that all young people should be guaranteed the opportunity to take advantage of different cultural offers, by establishing a system of cultural cards for young people and students. Through our proposal for a budget, we set up a test scheme with cultural cards for young people.For the red-green government, it is important to strengthen the Norwegian language and to invest in Norwegian literature. An important measure in this respect is the establishment of a digital neo-Norwegian lexicon. So we're proposing to spend 1.5 million. kr to start this project. In addition, we provide Norwegian literature with an additional boost in the future by supporting literature festivals and book cities.Samian culture and identity are also promoted in the Cultural Promise. We know that in recent years Sami culture has blossomed. In our near past, the Norwegian authorities have pursued a policy towards the Sami minority that we are not particularly proud of today. In parallel with the fact that the Storting has now given the people of Finland and reunite the right to self-determination, it is the Workers' Party's ambition that, together with a strong escalation of the appropriations for Sami cultural purposes, this will contribute to the strengthening of Sami language, culture and identity. Through the increase in the cultural budget, the allocation to the Sameting cultural budget is increased by more than 20 p.m. In the cultural promise we also promise increased support for multicultural purposes – also here it is delivered. There will be increased festival support for the Mela Festival and the Great World. And in the last of these 15 points, we're going to hit a blow for the Cultural Boat. We're now saying that we're going to get a proper investigation of the Culture boat, so we're going to be able to see if it's realistic to carry it out. Point by point, we've followed the cultural promise. It is a clear and clear profile of the new cultural policy of the red-green government, namely that we are following the cultural promise. In the evening post we could read on Friday that the new opposition now promises an ideological settlement with Gish and the red-green cultural policy. I must be ashamed to report that through this budgetary process I am unable to see any indications of ideological settlement with us. Basically, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right give their full support to the Government's proposals. If I were to try with good glasses to interpret an ideological settlement, it must be that these parties do not want to add the National Pop and Rock Experience Center to the Trendelag. The ideological thing we can then draw from this is that they want to centralize the cultural crowns of Oslo, while the Workers' Party and the other red-greens want to contribute to the spread of the cultural offer across the country. If this is the case, of course, we are ready to take the debate right away. But a clear ideological distinction we can't say it's there either. On the other hand, as I mentioned in the reply to Mr Grimstad, there is a clear ideological distinction in cultural policy, namely in the area of press support. It will be exciting and interesting in the coming years to follow the ideological debate between the former government parties in this area. The real distinction in cultural policy is between the Progress Party and the others. Over 800 million. kr they cut on the cultural budget. It's dramatic. With the Advance Party at the rudder, we would have had a poorer cultural life, dominated by one-sided commercial expressions. When the Culture Fund is cut by 40 million. SEK and post 74 under the Council of Culture cut by nearly 50 million. kr, it is dramatic for all these young artists trying to establish themselves. It helps to give far fewer opportunities. For the theatres, it's also dramatic when their budgets are cut by almost 100 million. kr. Then there won't be a lot of children's theaters left at the Rogaland Theatre or musical at the Dream Team Theatre. With the cultural policy of the Progress Party, we are moving from cultural diversity to cultural simplicity. A cultural life governed by the Advance Party may not be so different from what we saw in the former Communist regimes, but today with a market liberalistic face. There are now a majority to add the new pop and rock experience centre to the trombone layer. During the consultation round, the trøndelag option has been supported by heavy industry players, whether it is produced differently in the media. Trondheim and Namsos have delivered much to Norwegian popular music over time. Since the 1950s, Trondheim has had rock traditions. Many groups and musicians have their origins in Trøndelag. We can mention the link and Åge Alexandersen, TNT and Dum Dum Boys. There has been a wonderful turnaround in this case since the first time was dealt with in the spring of 2004. At that time, the Progress Party was the most active trailer of a national pop and rock centre for Trøndelag. The representative Per Sandberg accused the majority of fear of thunder at the time, since one would not be involved in the proposal. Where are Per Sandberg and the other two Trøndelag representatives from the Progress Party today? Today, the Progress Party is voting for the National Pop and Rock Experience Centre to be added to Oslo. Has the fear of thunder taken over even in the Advancement Party? And where is the representative Sandberg, who in his speech in connection with the Culture Communication called for individual representatives who were willing to stand on the barricades for a good project and for the trombone rock? When it really happened, it was Sandberg who was not willing to stand on the barricades. To close almost as I started: We are on track – on the trail of a better life for cultural life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e304	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e307	I will draw attention to St.meld. No 25 for 2003-2004, economic framework conditions for film production, in which the majority of the Committee, which then consisted, inter alia, of The Progress Party and the Labour Party were too incentive schemes to help produce more foreign films in Norway. After the election it seems that the Labour Party has forgotten this. This is why the Progress Party has presented a proposal asking the Government to put in place incentives to attract foreign film production to Norway – there may be reimbursement schemes or tax arrangements. The answer from the government parties is to return to the realities of the proposal. The fact is, the Storing has decided the realities, it's just about putting this into life. My impression is that the government wants to train this. My question is: will the representative Gjul put pressure on the Minister of Culture to introduce what the Minister of Culture actually was a few months ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e316	I don't think there's any need to put any pressure on a culture minister who's so busy with film, and who saw until those degrees deliver a good product in film, which is worth 14 million. kr extra on film, which has said that in the years to come we will also do it. In terms of the incentive arrangement for foreign films, we've been for it before, and we're for it today as well. What we're saying is that for 2006, we know that the need will not be there, and that's why we have said that we're going to come back to it. The Progress Party knows just as well as the rest of us that a government that has had 24 days before it submitted the budget cannot be resolved in all flocks. But what I can guarantee is that we are going to have an offensive investment in Norwegian films in the years to come, too, and to facilitate that foreign filmmakers also come to Norway and produce films.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e325	I have listened with pleasure to the representative Gjul's review of all the myriads of good actions that represent a clear profile. One of these profile-creating measures is rally-VM, which we also think is a good measure in many ways. But it's a question of whether it's an event that really belongs on our budget. This is an event that is primarily a sports event, we consider motorsport to be part of the sport. It is also an event — or rather, several events — that has its reasons for its importance for this area. Would it not then be right that this found its funding primarily within the resources of sport and within the Ministry of Industry’s chapters, type SND and others??
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e334	I note that the representative from Oppland is a bit counterproductive in the proposal for a rally-VM. I'm sure that if you go back to maybe not exactly the Right Elections in Uppland, but to most people in Uppland, one will feel that the message is clear: Rally-VM you want in the inland region. Most people support it. It is quite clear that it will have an enormous impact on that region in terms of business development and business creation. If we're going to get to this solution at all, you have to spend money on the budget. But as I see it, this will be expenditure on the acquisition of income. It will contribute to an enormous focus on the rally World Cup and Norway, and I am convinced that it will bring great joy to both the inland region and the representative Thommessen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e341	Rally-VM can be exciting. But what we see out of the budget is that the money literally comes out. So what I'm wondering is how much money the new government is actually willing to spend on the rally-WM. There's come a proposition about the desired path for the present year and likeins a strong promise next year. The money will easily go out, while for other good purposes the money will go in. When you look at how they've been exposed, you can see that they're cutting for church purposes. It is not the case that the cultural budget has had few years. For the current year, 2005, there was an increase in the cultural budget of 9 pst. A lot of work has gone to construction, and now it's important that we increase our permissions to direct activity. So trying to make it look as if culture has had meager years is not right. If one could have continued to have an increasing pace, as our government began, I believe that we could still see bright times in meetings. What I was thinking about is the tax deduction for gifts to voluntary teams and organizations. Since the money was released in the new government, why has an increase not been supported when it applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e350	It is only to note that the money is loose in the new government in terms of cultural and sporting purposes. We're proud of it! I understand that the former government partners with sorrow find that this is the case, and really will not take on board that it has become a new life for Culture-Norway – a new and better existence, in fact, for Culture-Norway. If you look at the last four years and ask the cultural workers in Norway if they think they've had a rough year, the answer is quite clear that the four years of Valgerd Svarstad Haugland were quite short years, and that they've looked forward to a new red-green government that contributed more to cultural purposes. And it's obvious that when you give me $170 million. kr extra for cultural purposes, it is important. There is no doubt that with Valgerd Svarstad Haugland it was both crushed and taken money from toys that should have been extra, which made cultural workers feel that their lives were not as good as they are in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e359	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e362	For the Progress Party, culture is a concept that expresses the values and qualities that individuals attribute to high self-esteem. For us, it is important to point out that what is good culture for one does not have to be good culture for another. And so it should be; this is what contributes to the diversity of expressions and forms in the cultural sector. Even more importantly, culture should be free and highly independent of political governance. The day when a political majority will decide or, where appropriate, set its profile on what to see, hear and not least feel of different cultural expressions, on which democracy has lost. I heard that the representative Gjul compared our policy with what we saw in the Communist regimes. But I must say that on the day that the political majority controls what I should see and hear, that day the Communist regime has also won in Norway on this front. And that's what we're about to see. But having a free and independent cultural life does not mean that all forms of culture are to be funded by the state. Rather, on the contrary, only when the different sectors of cultural life dare to see new ways and think of alternative funding, and not least finding some form of financial support other than public support, will I claim that we have a free cultural life. I know that many people don't agree with the Progress Party here, but it's not going to come from an ever-increasing debate in cultural forums. Most recently, private initiative and sponsorship were the subject of debate at the Annual Conference of the Council of Culture this autumn. This stands for respect. And we in the Progress Party would very much like to be involved in the further debate on the financing of culture in Norway. For the Progress Party, it has always been important that we should never forget that the money that comes from the public is actually the tax money of the Norwegian people. Of course, it's going to keep getting money from the public to the culture, of course, but this money belongs to most people. And when money's going to be spent on culture, we have to make sure that most people benefit and enjoy. It is not possible to undermine the fact that for the Progress Party, one of the most important things in cultural policy is to take care of our traditions – and our cultural treasures. Therefore, it is very important for us that these are properly secured, both in terms of conservation and in terms of safety. Norway's population should know that our cultural taxes are well taken care of for the posterity. I do not intend, as some of my colleagues have done, to congratulate the Council of State on the budget. If there had not been such an increase in the cultural budget, the Council of State had lost all credibility in relation to what he promised in the election campaign. Having said that, I also hope that the Council of State will remember that he himself has been on the Committee on Culture and supported the Progress Party's proposal for a new distribution of the key in 2002. The Progress Party was given a majority in favour of this proposal because the present government parties supported our proposal. This contributed much more money than the government has increased its budget, both for sport and for culture. The reason why I remember The Storing about this is that we now have a responsibility to follow up the grip that the majority did at the time. In some counties, the distribution of money from the surplus to Norwegian Tipping seems very bad, in other counties it seems very bad. I hope we get some kind of evaluation of the cultural school bag when it's been a while, so we see that it works according to the intentions. So to the voluntary teams and organizations. The Progress Party has always taken forward the work of voluntary teams and organisations. The volunteers capture the latitude activities and not least the work being done for children and young people. There are an incredible number of people who benefit from the offers made by the voluntary teams and organisations, both in terms of the cultural front with corps, theatres and music schools, and also in terms of sports. Unfortunately, as politicians, we have little influence and insight into what is happening on the sport front, but I have a hope that the new Council of State will also take the opportunity to present a communication on what public funding means for sport in Norway, especially given that the economy of sports around Norway is currently somewhat unpredictable. The reason for this is that it has been decided to await the introduction of a monopoly on ATMs until further notice. However, no one has had the courage to present the impact of such a monopoly on sport, as well as on the voluntary teams and organisations, which receive most of their income from vending machines. As a volunteer minister, perhaps the Council of State should present a communication on this. I don't think it's just us in Stortinget who need clarification and for more predictability on these questions, I think the whole of volunteer Norway also has, including sport. The Progress Party shall promote proposals for two different cultural funds. We believe targeted funds provide good, verifiable results. The first proposal is a proposal to establish a fund for voluntary and participating cultural activities. We believe that it is the many amateurs involved in culture that should get better status. Specialised, professional culture for the few does not necessarily give a rich cultural life, but it does the culture where people participate themselves. We believe that it's in width that we get the most. The Progress Party believes that the voluntary and participating culture may not be the one giving the big headlines, nor the big achievement either. Nevertheless, the culture of amateurism can give the most joy and experience in the many communities. We believe it is important that the valuable local amateur culture is given a safe and stable framework. That is why we want a fund to be set up. The Fund’s return should be targeted specifically at activities for children. The second fund we want to set up is a fund for cooperation between cultural enterprises and private businesses. During the treatment of the Culture and Business Communication by the Storting, all parties expressed views on artistic and cultural activities such as good industrial policy and activities. The Progress Party wishes, on the basis of such views, to facilitate the development of viable and creative cultural activities. We are very pleased that the other bourgeois parties this year support our proposal for such a fund. Unfortunately, this time only the Progress Party has found money for such a fund, but we hope that the other bourgeois parties, and to the extent that the socialist government parties, too, can follow us – in a year or two, when the idea has matured. The Fund shall provide opportunities for cooperation between cultural and private enterprises. Here it's important to see the great potential that lies at the intersection of creative souls and everyone else. Here, in fact, both sides are potentially both donors and recipients of skills, ideas and help. Finally, I hope that all those who still claim that the Progress Party has no cultural policy, will now take on board that we have actually made ourselves big, but also small, thoughts around the whole cultural sector. It's a continuous red thread in our cultural policy, and I hope that our political opponents and also the cultural people see and understand. We're not going to ruin our cultural life in Norway. Nor do we aim to kill those who feed on art and culture. As politicians, we don't want to decide what's good or what's bad culture – we think people should decide for themselves. Cultural life is best served to conform to people's wishes. Then it becomes possible to reach more people with more culture. What separates the Progress Party from the other parties in the cultural debate is that we dare to challenge, we dare to think new, and not least: we dare to say so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e401	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e405	I have been amazed at the cultural policy of the Advancement Party many times – so surprised that sometimes I don't know if I should take everything seriously. The progress party is the largest opposition party, so we actually have to take seriously both what those program parties say and what they say. I therefore have a question for the representative of the Progress Party, led by an introduction. When the Advance Party cuts over 800 million. kr on this year's cultural budget, which then affects freelance artists, Sami cultural initiatives, opera, films and other good purposes, how does the Progress Party think that the voluntary amateurs, the popular actors to whom the Advance Party will give money, will be able to find inspiration for being culturally active? If it turns out that the market and sponsors are not able to fill the cuts in the public budgets, where are the professional models, the teachers of amateurs and volunteers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e412	It's true that we're cutting 800 million. kr on the cultural budget. We see a different priority than that the state necessarily has to stand there and pour out mild gifts to anyone who wants to be creative. We're absolutely sure of that, and that's exactly why, as I also said in my post, we challenge. We dare to challenge cultural life to think new, to think alternately. What's so good about this is that the Culture Council is also afraid to take this debate. I think that both the active and professional artists, the practitioners, in different sectors should be able to dry up and discuss whether it is possible to look at other funding. We see in other countries that we can compare to, that this actually, by the fact that the practitioners themselves dare to take hold of it, also generate a whole lot of new, fresh money. In addition to that, I would like to stress that the key has been changed, and we thus added 400 million to cultural life. kr per. years. I therefore believe that the volunteers have good money only if they come out to the volunteers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e421	I have a question for the Progress Party. That's something I've been wondering about for years, in fact, and now I hope to get a good answer. It is linked to the comments of the Progress Party on the external item. I read: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party want to reduce this entry somewhat’. — That’s okay, but then it comes: ‘These members believe that ‘different items’ in a budget are illogical.’ You make it sound like the external post is kind of an unspecified, odd post. So what we're aiming for here is heading 78 to the top. 320. Does this mean that the Progress Party believes that Norwegian festivals, the Nordnorsk Cultural Council, the National Council of Norwegian Children's and Youth Organisations, the Forum for Culture and Business, the Folkeakademies Landsförbund, etc. won't get any money? Is that what you mean? What is the meaning of this comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e433	Yes, you can wonder what you mean, but it's not that hard. In fact, the Progress Party believes what it says that ‘different items’ are a udder. We believe that the purposes to be included in the state budget should be given their own posts, whether it be festivals, Nordic party games or whatever it may be. In fact, they should be made visible in the State budget rather than in a mixed item, which is large and incomprehensible to those who do not have the annexes. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e440	After the war, there has been a consensus on Norwegian cultural policy. It is based on two basic elements, which have well marked the whole of the Nordic region, namely public responsibility for framework conditions and organisation and the principle of arm's length distance. The Progress Party says that culture should be free, not least for political governance. If we're talking about direct control, that's exactly why we established the Nordic model. It was precisely in view of the examples used by the Progress Party itself in the budgetary position, namely from the Soviet Union, from Nazi Germany, etc., that we introduced the principle of arm's length distance. As I read the budget of the Progress Party today, they will remove the principle of arm's length distance. Is it possible for the Progress Party to confirm that they will not remove the arm's length principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e447	I can reassure the representative Lund Bergo that we might want more than an arm's length distance between us and cultural life, and unfortunately it doesn't look like the new government wants it. That's why we're writing this, because the more money the state spends on priority purposes, the closer they push the culture to the breasts of the state. That's exactly what we don't want. We want it to be open to different funding, that culture itself should be allowed to flourish freely, and not least that people themselves should decide what they want to see, hear and read. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e454	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e459	The Government's draft budget for the Ministry of Culture provides significant increases in grants to a number of excellent items. From this point of view, a good trend is being followed from the Bondevik government period, because it is probably not the way Gjul said it was a sad and dark period. Since 2001, the cultural budget has actually had a real growth of 26.2 p.m. With regard to the rest of the state budget, it may not look as amusing to the cultural area, because cultural life is also dependent on a policy that gives good purchasing power to households. A good business policy for enterprises, which may provide the most important of all, namely the right base, is also important for cultural life. The structure of the Stoltenberg government, where increased taxes, labour-environment restrictions and stronger focus on government governance are the melodies of transition, is not what cultural life serves. There I think it might be the basis for an ideological difference, as it has been mentioned. We see that the increased funds now being allocated are distributed in addition to a number of measures. It is difficult to read this in any other way than that it is a follow-up to the long main lines of cultural policy, which is supported by the Right. However, there is probably a danger of unilateral government funding, and using considerable resources through a small number of bodies can quickly create power structures, which may be unfortunate. This is a theme we will follow up in the years that come – a theme that, in my opinion, clearly goes on in ideological terms. The right will continue to work to preserve the cultural heritage. This is apparent in our draft budget, where we want to further strengthen the area of ABM, and also create a separate line for development of competence in the field of culture – each of five million. kr. The traditional knowledge dissemination has special challenges in folk music, folk dance, and, not least, in housework and small and protective crafts. These areas have been on the waving front, and the right is now thought to be a review of how adult education is working. Many argue that these areas will come out better over time if they do not fight over the funds within a framework in which educational policy arguments are prevailing. I hope the Council of Culture will take a closer look at this issue and see if it might be appropriate to go through the adult education system and possibly take up in the Government if you could move these funds to the Ministry of Culture and perhaps call a spade a spade more easily, when you come to make a comprehensive policy in this area. With regard to the voluntary field, the Right, Left and Christian People's Party have taken note of what has been done within the Norwegian theatre in terms of award criteria. We believe that the Norwegian Theatre Council has responded to what has been requested from Stortinget, and that they deserve some extra money to lubricate the new arrangements they are now going to implement. We have put 2 million in our draft budget. kr to Theaterrådet. I hope the government will look positive at the work you do there, in the year that comes. Offensive artists who want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the crossroads between culture and industry should be encouraged to make further efforts. Here we will refer to the actor centre, which through its work shows how the actors can use their skills in new areas and create more and more interesting jobs for the actors. We've also put some funds in the pot for them. As far as the Church is concerned, I join the representative of Molvær Grimstad – and I skip it for myself. We have also noticed in the Right that new costs have now come to light in media policy. Reducing ownership laws and increasing production subsidies through press support announce a policy that the Right obviously will not support. The media area is one of the most dynamic and expansive areas of the economy. It is a field that lives closely on international trends, a field of well-developed international ownership, and not least a field close to a technological development of which we have not yet seen the full range. Technological convergence means that the media field needs to develop new products and not least focus on demanding changes in relation to the user habits of the audience. This is a demanding political starting point. Our objectives are clear: to further develop good venues for public discussion, debate and exchange of views, i.e. the traditional consideration of freedom of expression and the framework of freedom of expression. In addition to this, I believe that the media area is covered by a number of cultural policy considerations that are about our need for a cultural home path in our country. That's where we can deliver our best, and that's here in our country we can take out the creative potential. Here, language policy considerations are also included. In this picture, we need vital media companies, companies that have the backs to convey new expressions and technologies to local environments, which have the opportunity to refinance through dynamic ownership, and companies that dare to put pressure on new areas. Then we do not need a more restrictive ownership law that will prevent increased profitability and more flexible Norwegian ownership. Nor do we need more press support, which contributes to further freezing the newspaper structure and slowing down competition from new media. The local press support works like this, for example. in relation to local radio, that the local newspaper has public subsidisation for its activities, while the local radio has nothing. The press support works so that it is difficult to get there when you are new, or rather – it is probably impossible. If we are to have media support schemes – I expect the government to think we should have – there must be schemes that at least work better across media expressions, and schemes that make us grow and renew media businesses. In the spirit of cooperation, the Right has become with the partners of the old government on a small regulation of the press support for this year. We're going to ask enough questions about this and not least about the device of it in the future. On the other hand, there's a lot more enthusiasm we're now adding 1 million. kr extra to the Sound & Video Foundation. This is an important system, which works across the board, and which offers opportunities in a larger width. Important radio productions have also been produced for smaller enterprises with significant support from them. Right think that the period we're now going into will raise a lot of fundamental cultural policy issues. For my part, I have to say that the rather one-sided focus on how much or who has been most good at allocating money has been experienced as a little frustrating, for that discussion has overshadowed almost all other fundamental discussions. Now we've got a government that has the ambition to be the best in the class to spend money. Then we can have a little less pressure on that particular discussion. I hope that now there will be better room for the other matters. Then issues about government governance, about fund financing, about unification, about globalisation and a greater diversity of funding forms will be issues that I hope we will be able to approach on a principle basis. I look forward to an exciting period, in which the Right has the ambition to be a creative opposition that makes suggestions, and contributes to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e495	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e498	Today we are going to deal with a cultural budget where the new bulk of population is close to 170 million. kr more than the previous government did for next year. This budget is referred to by the Right Culture Policy as ‘excellent’ in the Evening Post a few days ago. In the newspaper Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen on 12 November, he said that the Stoltenberg government “has ever made one of the greatest economic promises in the field of culture”. And in the financial debate he said that it was ‘a pleasure to see an enthusiastic Minister of Culture’. My question to the representative Thommess is therefore: In the light of these opinions, is it that the Right is pleased with the commitment that has taken culture into account in the policy of the new majority, or is it that the Right regrets this and should have seen its own draft budget adopted, which would not have allowed for this cultural initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e505	I'm not going out of my way to be so generous that I give credit that the government has prioritised culture, when first it was so wrong that one would pay more taxes and taxes and redistribute funds in another way. There's no doubt that this is a significant rise. I don't think any Minister of Culture has had as much to travel with as the Council of State Giske has had on this occasion. At least I can't say that I remember anything about it. Then there's no shame, I think, to rejoice over it. But it is important not to be uncritical either. I also believe that the budgetary approach taken by our government was a better one. So it wasn't like that. When it was wrong, I think this is a significant rise in misery.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e513	The representative Thommessen looks forward to a more ideological cultural debate in the future. We also welcome that with joy. I must say that the contributions in this year's budget have not been very convincing, as we have seen. At the same time, we see that the Progress Party has been on its own planet. We see that in some cases, for example. in the media policy, stands with the Right. When it comes to financial thoughts about the future, we see that there are some similarities. What I enjoy in the future ideological debate is what should govern the popular taste, and taking cultural responsibility. It's going to be exciting. As far as media policy is concerned, I would just challenge the Thommess: does he think that today's system of press support, which Right has programmed that they will wind up, is not a significant contribution to ensuring diversity, democracy and freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e520	As I was in my post, I think we've come there to say that the press support works almost against its purpose. There are soon no publishers where there are two newspapers. In the vast majority of the country, newspapers are almost monopolistic. We see that starting new business, starting new newspapers, is quite difficult. It's hard to get money for it, and it's hard to get through. We know all the advertising mechanisms that prioritise the large, established newspapers. In this picture, the press support makes the whole system stiffen, that we don't get new growth in newspapers, and that the growth in other types of media, radio and television, is becoming more difficult to achieve. So I mean the answer is – I'm not sure if it will be yes or no, because I don't quite remember the question. But at least I believe that the support for the press does not match the expectations of diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e525	The municipality is an important initiator of local culture, and the cultural sphere is an important part of this offer. We know that many municipalities today have a need to reduce supply and increase prices in the cultural sphere, and the reason for this is a strong pressure on the local economy, such as the local economy. The representative of Thommes' party is in favour. I believe that the representative has a real and strong commitment to culture, and so my question must be: Do we want to see a new course from the Right when it relates to permits to the municipalities, so that the municipality is more able to be an initiator of local culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e530	If there is something the municipalities need, there is freedom to act — fewer earmarked funds, fewer legal regulations, which should provide greater opportunities for finding local and good solutions. Then we don't need any more regulations, as the Center Party wants. The centre party has announced that what is soon the last breathing hole in relation to municipal freedom of action, namely the cultural area, must also be regulated. Here I hope you think, even though the Center Party even has it in the program. We see that many municipalities have great ability to find good local solutions, precisely within the cultural area. If you look at libraries, if you look at cultural schools, if you look at the contributions to local organisations and cultural buildings, there's a lot of diversity, there's a lot of variation between municipalities. There is just a need for action and freedom of action. I would like, on behalf of the Right, to address the proposal that has been distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e539	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e544	The framework conditions of art and culture are essential for the quality of life of each of us and of society as a whole. In a policy of a more fair and solidarity society, a society rich in cohesion and good experiences for all, art and culture are important elements. It could be tempting to cut quotes from the lines of the bourgeois parties on SV in the last four years. In short, they have stated that SV has diverted cultural policy Norway with promises and monopoly money. That's why I'm standing here with a good feeling and I'm going to defend the budget that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre are presenting and have a majority in the Chamber. The budget that exists is a direct result of the great cultural promise, which was the equivalent of these three parties to the cultural message. I believe that even the SV's critics will admit that both content and priorities have a significant impact on the SV's cultural policy programme. It was just to be lacking if we in SV were not satisfied with this. But even better and more important is, of course, the fact that Norwegian cultural life continues to applaud, as they did two years ago, when we presented the cultural promise. Culture-Norway jubilees were the headlines when the year's cultural budget was presented. Fine-looking future music, it was called when the Cultural Promise was launched – not from the Right/Christian People's Party/Left team. There in the yard there were two comments. One angle was: «A populist play» – from the Thommess, «a little pathetic, populist policy of surrender» – from the Skei Grande. Or the other angle, that it was ‘great but to open doors’ — from the then state councillor, Svarstad Haugland. ‘But, when true, it is not far from what has already been included in the Culture Communication from the Government side’ — from Ola T. Lånke. I don't know if they've made up their minds yet, because it's very bad that we were going to knock open doors with populist overbidden policies. The difference between the cultural promise from the red-green and what was presented by the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left is in the commitment. We said that if we got a majority, the cultural promise would be carried out, while in the civil parties' cultural messages, the review tone was that they wanted to'monthly increase' in most fields, but they did away with the obligation. They chose, as they said, to take the economic stand back. And it's okay, but if there's anything we heard in the election campaign, it's Norway going down. Yes, we agree with that assessment, but that is when we have to ask ourselves – in the light of the promises of the Culture Communication – why is it not ‘monthly increasing’ on the cultural budget when it goes down? Or maybe we should ask, when they don't find room for culture growth now, when do they think it's going to come? The proposals they made on their own keel in the autumn had, in fact, an increase in administration and church purposes, but for culture they had an increase that was so small that it did not even take into account price and salary growth. The numbers' speech is ready. They wanted to increase the donation to the Norwegian Church by 7.4 pst. To the administration, they meant 6.9 pst. be careful. For culture, on the other hand, they satisfied themselves with a mark-up of 1.3 p.m., which is less than the price and pay increase, and for film and media purposes they found only to be able to increase by 1 p.m. Well, at least we could call this interesting priorities. Culture-Norway applauded not only the cultural budget, but also the red-green will to rest up in the municipalities. In recent years, the situation in municipalities has been cutting down on voluntary, sporting and cultural appropriations. In the municipality after the municipality we have seen that they are struggling with the statutory tasks. Then we know how to proceed with other good measures. With the additional billions now flowing into the municipalities, many more municipalities have budgets that enable them to invest in culture, sport and volunteering. I believe that the cultural efforts of the red-green parties will continue throughout this great period, and I hope that when we have finished this period, we will not do as the previous government: refer back to a matter that they were forced by the political opposition, namely the cultural school bag, but refer back to the matters we have carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e566	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e569	In the case of pop/rock experience centers, the representative Lund Bergo is a man with deep roots in and knowledge of the industry. 80 pst. of the industry located in the Oslo area. An entire industry, so to speak, supports the Oslo option. Touristly, it is obvious that Oslo is the most sensible. Economically, it is also the best and the cheapest. I have to ask myself the question why SV has landed on the Trøndelags option. You actually have to look with a magnifying glass to find someone outside of the Trendelag that supports this option. So I could imagine hearing from the representative Lund Bergo what reasons he has to go in for the Trondelags option, when it's the worst and most expensive. Is it only territorial considerations that have been taken into account here?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e576	In this case I have a good conscience. I am happy to have helped to prevent the Progress Party together with the Workers' Party in an early stage of placing the whole buttercup in Namsos – if it had not been there today, all the appropriations had gone to Namsos – without talking to either industry, environment or anyone else. I am pleased and have twice taken the initiative that we have received investigations that have given the parties the opportunity to deal with this. I would like to have the matter back – not as a budgetary matter, but as a matter of my own in Stortinget. It's not always that we get it the way we want it in politics, but on behalf of SV, I have at least a good conscience that we have implemented a democratic process. After good treatment in the party, we have pointed out that Trøndelag is the alternative, but at the same time that the other environments around in Norway are also to be placed. I'm pretty happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e583	I thought I could pick up the thread from the representative Lund Bergo's reply to me about the press support. I remember from the discussion of the media message that the representative Lund Bergo was almost panegyrisk when it came to the prospect of increased press support, or the desire for increased press support. My question to Lund Bergo is the following, and that's the same as I think I got from him, but a little bit different angle: think Lund Bergo there will be some more newspapers with this year's increase of 7.5 million. kr in the press stand? Think Lund Bergo that there would have been a few more newspapers if you had increased the press support by, for example, Between 30 and 40 million. Do you really want to delete this item? How much does Lund Bergo think it is necessary to increase the support for the press in order for there to be some new or some more newspapers in Norway? I am not thinking of the very small newspapers that are members of the National Team for Local Newspapers. We've seen them coming anyway, completely independent of the press support.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e590	I'm a hot defender of the press support. In that it is not that I believe that today's system will necessarily last forever, or that we should not be critical of how the funds are used and what they lead to. Of course, we're going to be in on that. What is quite clear is that with the budget as, among other things, The party at the Thommess stand behind us, we would have had fewer newspapers in Norway, and it would have hit the meaningful newspapers drastically – they would have gone away. It would have been bad, and we've made sure that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e598	The representative of Lund Bergo had a lot of good feelings to express, and it's clear that it's going to be a nice Christmas for the representative of Lund Bergo. It is possible that I now empty a bit of paint in the window. That's really not the point, but sometimes we politicians have to admit that we're just as bad out there driving, all of them. Sarcasm bobbled easily in the desire to Lund Bergo in the election campaign, especially in the area of adult education. Then some of us said that this post would probably never be the great winner of a Minister of Education. Now we've got an SV State Council in this field, and then I think we're going to say okay, put a line and say that now we're all just as bad out driving. On the other hand, what I'm disappointed about – and I'm not going to be sarcastic – is that SV is not willing to participate and evaluate how we can cope with the cultural aspect of adult education by looking at that post, as the Right, Christian People's Party and Left have done in this budget. Why isn't that interesting for SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e605	If Skei Grande has read the setting, she'll see that we're just worried about adult education, and that this is a point that we want to do something about. I believe that our intentions and goals in adult education do not differ greatly from the intentions and goals of the Skei Grande. So I want to welcome her on the team, and we're going to join in and do that job further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e610	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e613	In the election campaign, we said in the centre party to our voters that we wanted to work for a targeted commitment to culture and volunteering. The basis for such a commitment was already established through the cooperation with the Workers' Party and SV on the Cultural Promise. It's very gratifying, I'd say, that the commitment to culture and volunteering is already clearly seen in the first budget of the new government. The centre party sees this as an important step towards the goal of a variety of cultural and artistic expressions across the country. We live in a country where a lot of the time is spent on volunteering. Through work in teams and organisations, work, public meetings, church activities, cultural events and sports events, many people make a great effort. They make life richer for themselves and for others. Voluntary work is an important building block in many communities. We know that three out of four Nordics are in a volunteer organization, and almost half of us are in at least two. The voluntary organisations produce goods and services worth approximately NOK 38 billion and the employment of 54 000 people in paid work. In addition, 100 000 undivided annual works are carried out by non-profit organisations. This makes us one of the world's leading countries for volunteering. But in many countries, volunteering is a major change. Harvard Professor Robert D. Putnam shows in the book «Bowling alone» how civil society and the social capital it produces have been reduced in the last 25 years in the United States. Participation in teams and organisations is more than halved, involvement in local society has been reduced by 35 p.t., and that part of the income that Americans give as gifts to voluntary organisations has decreased by about one third. We need to pursue a policy that is at the height of developments in the voluntary sector, so that we can cope with this kind of development here as well. We need to pursue an offensive policy that strengthens the voluntary sector. Then we need to step up efforts to simplify and red tape the work of voluntary organisations. I am pleased that we have received a government that shows a great willingness to take on this work, including this one. by completing the work of a voluntary register. It is also very gratifying that the Government has started work on increasing support for voluntary organisations. The Free Fund pot is increasing, and we've increased the transfer to the volunteer centres. This is important grip, which shows that one wants to go in the opposite direction of the previous government. Bondevik II cut in that part of the Frifond River that went directly over the state budget, contrary to what was intended. At the same time, the Bondevik government was responsible for a municipal economy, which meant that the municipalities still had to cut into important welfare tasks. This has also framed local cultural services in many places and has led many young people around the country to have a poorer cultural supply. For the Central Party, it has been important to reverse developments in this field. The strengthening of Freefonds through a strong strengthening of the local economy has been an important part of this work. The centre party wants it to grow in the cultural and organisational life of the whole country. We know that when the municipalities get more money, it also becomes easier to prioritize culture locally. With a commitment to culture, we encourage more people to live for, not just live off. I have used a lot of this article to talk about volunteering. But of course, in the Center Party, we enjoy what we have done with our government partners in other areas of cultural policy: strengthening Norwegian film, increasing efforts in the dissemination of music, dance and theatre, purchasing arrangements for instruments for the Corps, and we have secured the start of work to put in place a new digital lexicon. Much of this was done by the representative Gjul in his post. Former Minister of Culture Valgerd Reply City Haugland said about the Cultural Promise that it was opening doors. I am proud that the new government in a few weeks has opened doors for 168 million. kr and thus made culture more accessible to people. These are bets that the former government comrades in Right, Left and Christian People's Party could not afford a few weeks ago. Today, however, they are eager to distribute the cultural money that the centre-left government has got in place. There's nothing that pleases us more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e634	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e637	The representative Sande used a lot of his post to talk about the voluntary sector. I agree with him in that is an important area. The Bondevik government extended the tax deduction schemes for contributions to organisations. Would it not have been an exciting idea to build on that scheme, perhaps not in relation to increasing the amounts, but in relation to expanding the basis, thus giving more non-governmental organisations the opportunity to use such schemes? The whole field of folk culture and the whole field of music and theatre, I'm sure that would have enjoyed such an arrangement, if you made it right. How does the Central Party view building further on the tax deduction schemes, perhaps preferably through an extended basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e642	Tax deductions on donations to voluntary organisations may be one of the ways of strengthening voluntary organisations and culture elsewhere. I'm glad the Government chose to pass on this tax exemption. We got a right look and often in the election campaign from the then government party that this was a scheme that would disappear if there was a new government in place. The system is in place, and we in the Central Party are obviously excited about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e647	The representative Sande was in the church activities of his post. I also see that the Central Party programme says that the Central Party wants Norway to build its future on the Christian and humanist cultural heritage. That's a slightly stronger wording, to say it carefully, than what's in the Soria Moria statement. We have now had a table prayer debate, and in today's VG there are two sides if it is at all possible to go to the Christmas service. It is reassuring to see that Minister of Knowledge Djupedal says that it is OK with Christmas. So at least we know that. However, we have also noted that in the Central Party there is great concern about the importance of the Christian cultural heritage for the new government. Does the representative Sande agree that the debate we have now had on school gods may also have to do with the unrest that the government in place has created about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e661	The Christian cultural heritage is also mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is good that the Christian People's Party has noticed, because in the election campaign, a few impressions could be that this country was going to become completely Christian if one got a new government. I am pleased with what is stated in the Government Declaration, and will stress that for the Center Party it is of course important that we build our society on the Christian and humanistic cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e666	The left and the centre parties have a long tradition of agreeing on much of the commitment to voluntary work, and voluntary work is increasing in Norway, but it is also about action that can be taken to improve the quality of cultural dissemination in the voluntary cultural sphere. Therefore, I have a question for the Centre Party: Why do they disagree that the Theatre Council's activities will receive increased grants? Why do they also disagree that there should be a separate grant scheme for training in the field of public culture, as we are all in the same boat when it comes to cutting adult education? Finally, I wonder why it's so dangerous for the Center Party to be on a note about the Tveit/Hauge jubilee, where I realized that Sande too has a great commitment. That remark had then ensured the implementation and not only contributed to the marking, which well in and of itself means that some from the government parties come and cut the red ribbons.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e674	When it comes to amateur theatre, there's an area that we want to look at and spend a little more time getting an overview of. That's why we didn't go into that comment. When it comes to the Tweitt/Huge jubilee, we have a common commitment in that area, and I think that the remark that the plural has come up with opens up so that one can participate in the anniversary, which means that these two artists can be honored in the way that we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e681	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e684	The left is, like most people here in the hall, happy with the additions that have happened, and it is well, if you had put the program of the parties on top of each other, a large majority in this room for such a raise, sail if I have to point out that it is not as huge as anyone should have it to. It's a little over 160 million. kr. The Bondevik I government also had an increase of over 300 million. kr on the cultural budget, sail if much of it was investment. What is unfortunate is the fact that church and culture are set up against each other — the church that has been an important driver of cultural life in this country for the last thousand years. The left will raise some special priorities that we have been concerned with in this budget. The first is the amateur culture. Of course, the amateur concept is questionable, and not everyone likes to wear it either, so we can say the voluntary culture. The Norwegian Theatre Council has been through a great transformation. They have been willing to go into a conflict-filled area, which I am familiar with, and get out of it well at the other end. Giving an extra boost to them is pretty important. I am, like most people in this room, also very concerned about the cultural consequences of the cuts in skills building. We have to look at this together, and I think it is very important to get a broad political commitment on this in the future. I'm sorry you're not willing to start right now. We've added an addition to the Norwegian Sculptor Center. It signals something more than just the 500,000 kroner. I am very pleased that the Council of State has said that he will go through the living conditions of artists, but I am very concerned about the developments we are now seeing, with a government that seems to be small businesses and entrepreneurship, and tax policies in that context, are less important, and that it doesn't have anything to say about the living conditions of artists. The third point is the multicultural cultural expression, which has been treated today as a specific case and an area of particular interest, to be dealt with by special grant schemes. We believe that this must enter into the usual grant schemes at the level of everyone else. It is important that we now have a review of this cultural field that will not treat it as a special scheme, but will be treated as all the other Norwegian traditional institutions. The fourth is that we've been willing to prioritize the slightly boring and long-term, the promises that absolutely everyone is behind. Prioritizing ABM development may not be something that creates the big headlines in the newspapers, or something like that, but it's about standing behind the priorities that we've all agreed on when it's about adding extras. There's a lot of agreement in this setting, and I have some concerns. I must say that the red-greens haven't sat any longer by the power than that it's still just a anxiety; it's not yet about fear. I can lift up some of them. One is the establishment of the folk music scene. Why the majority don't want to be on a note that ensures that the folk music scene can get a rental contract – it's now in a critical phase – I'm concerned about, and I hope the Council of State in its contribution might be able to determine whether that progress is going to be the way it's supposed to be. The second concerns Stavanger as a European city of culture. There is also not enough money in relation to the entire promise this year, and I am concerned that the majority does not want to commit to the long-term agreement that has been made. There's a lot of ideological divisions here, sail if it might not seem so good. Rock probably represents a more ideological distinction – when it comes to placing the center in Trondheim or not. It's not about centralization. I believe that a model with the core of the Schous quarter and several other regional structures, which there had actually been money to implement, would have been a much more decentralised model than what we are talking about now. What scares me the most is that here we make agreements like we're faction leaders, and not like we're state councils. It's not that you can make all the decisions in closed rooms, and you can't hear all the parties. If you have had a consultation process where everything is on paper, people must have the opportunity to speak before a final decision is taken. The other aspect in this is the artist-initiated versus the bureaucrat. There I think it's going to be a bigger ideological distinction in the future than just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e710	The representative Skei Grande has also used large words in the media for the location of the rock museum. An ideological overrun is the content of the descriptions. But the promises and great words of the Left are more like writing in truth than the ability to realize cultural policy projects. The idea of the cultural quarter Schous with versatile rock activity and national scene for music and dance is great. There was not a single penny for this in the draft budget of the Valverds and the Left. Money for starting up the Schous quarter is granted, and negotiations on further development will start. Then I have to ask: what is most important for the Left, ideology and pious promises without money, or practical politics as an economy, which is necessary to realize the idea of the Schous quarter?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e717	I do not know if ‘frekt’ is a parliamentary expression, so I dare not use it. But I just have to say that when the Oslo representative Hildeng claims that the left has been on the brakes to develop the Schous quarter, or on the brakes to get at all something developed in terms of culture in this city, this is what could have gone under the word that I don't know if it's allowed to use. The left and I have actually been drivers in this city to get up the cultural appropriations. It has not been the Workers' Party. At least the central working party has not contributed to any cultural promise in this city. It's just looking at Oslo's budgets, and it's just looking at the other priorities. You hit your chest over jazz scene and other things here, but I just have to say that I was at the opening of this jazz scene, and I didn't see any other Oslo politicians present. But it was definitely before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e722	The President agrees that the word ‘freak’ is not a good idea to use, but it is not a good idea to use it indirectly either.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e725	I think it's quite uninteresting to hear about the cultural budgets of the different cities. I'd like to make a statement about Moss and what I've done there, but that's what the budget debate is about. The representative of Skei Grandes and the left in the election campaign in Eastfold and otherwise in the country was that this Cultural promise was to be made within four years. There has not yet been a single extra cultural crown from the Left in this budget, so it'll be interesting to know from the representative when you're about to start escalating to do that election promise. Then I would also like to hear about the ideological divisions of which the representative Trine Skei Grande is concerned, and that there are going to be major confrontations here. There are no major confrontations in these two budgets, and it will now be interesting to hear: what matters are important for the Left, and what issues will the Left give priority to in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e732	The left is the only party in Western Europe for the past 50 years that has progressed after being in a coalition government. We did that because we set ourselves a few goals about what we were going to achieve, and we managed to achieve them. During this period, we had set ourselves the goal of fulfilling our commitment to culture in our party program. We would have done that if we had been allowed to continue in the coming years. The distinction is quite clear. The distinction is clear between who wants to move decisions from enclosed spaces and who wants to have open debates. That's also another main part. There are very many cultural workers who are also seafaring entrepreneurs, who run small businesses that are creative industries. If there's an area where there's really a lot going on, it's right here. But this government doesn't care. One has no desire at all to contribute to the easier life of small businesses and to enable them to develop their cultural work and not just to develop the possibility of going bankrupt in the tax world in which they now live.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e739	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have comments in the setting. Left's Skei Grande commented on the comment that the multicultural field, institutional and organisational, should be similar to the ethnic Norwegian and not so person-dependent. I would first like to remind you that Norwegian cultural life is diverse and developing in terms of organisations and institutionalisation, and that it is actually personalised here from time to time. What does Skei Grande mean that the multicultural field must be more like the Norwegian ethnicity? That's question 1. And question 2: Is Skei Grande satisfied with the budget presented? Would she prefer it to what was already there?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e746	I'm pleased that it's added to culture, but I think that this budget, when we see all the other grips the government is doing, overall will go out on cultural life, cf. the other thing I said. So to personal dependence: I know that the representative Knutsen has a great commitment to, for example, Sami and female institutions. The difference between them and the multicultural institutions that are mostly located here in the city is that they are institutions treated as institutions. They've had a completely different construction. Here are individuals who have been on for 20 – 30 years to build up something, but who are still treated only as individuals with a decent commitment, and not as permanent, established institutions with fixed, established arrangements, with fixed, established grants and with a certain predictability. This is about taking the spark from people who have been trying to build something up for a long time. I think they should be taken seriously for the institution they have built up, and not be treated as individuals who are pleasant to have with them, but who cannot possibly plan the cultural activity they work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e757	Let me first give a thank you to the Committee for a good cooperation so far. Although we are a majority government and get a say in our policy as we propose it, of course we want a good and close cooperation with the opposition and a dialogue on how we can best make a policy for Norwegian cultural action. The government’s objective is to become a leading cultural nation in Norway. Cultural policy must respect art and the self-esteem of culture. At the same time, through a cultural promise, we can also contribute to other societal goals such as good growth conditions, quality of life, health, integration, creativity and economic development, and not least to combating poverty and ensuring that everyone is involved in an inclusive society. The goal of the cultural promise is to 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes in 2014. When we discussed the cultural announcement on 1 April 2004, it was said that the cultural promise was to kick open doors, it was populist overdraft and – eventually – impossible to implement. The vow of culture was neither a matter of course, an offer nor an impossible one. We had 24 days to design our option. Then we got space for 166 million. SEK extra, 149 million. kr for pure cultural purposes. We're on route with the Cultural Promise. The budget represents a new gesture in the field of voluntary policy. The voluntary sector means a great deal to our society. We're correcting the 15 million cut proposal. kr i Frifond. In addition, we provide ten new volunteer centres and a number of good measures to strengthen voluntary cultural life. The support for the music villages is an example of such a scheme. Government policy provides for inclusion. Multicultural actions, library services, prison libraries, youth cultural maps, festival support and regional museums offer more opportunities to experience and participate in culture regardless of geography, gender and social divides. The great commitment to Sami culture is part of the picture. The budget also creates jobs. Several can live from their artistic work through the increase to free stage groups, to pop/rock, ensemble support, festival support, support for orchestras and scholarships for artists. Regional theatres and district operas receive increased support. That's 22 million. kr more for literature and library purposes, museums and not least the field of music collected. We're finally going to have to set up a new grant scheme for dance. The new grant scheme and the efforts to secure its own premises for Dansen Hus are a deliberate effort to raise an art form that has sometimes been treated in a vote in Norway. The allocation for the start of work to establish a national pop and rock history centre in Trøndelag, a national scene for folk music and folk dance and jazz scene in Oslo marks an outstanding bet on the rhythmic music genres. Let me say here that it doesn't help much to have strong opinions about localization if you're not willing to put the money on the table to realize the different projects. An important part of the Soria Moria Declaration and the Cultural Promise is to increase the focus on Norwegian films. After years of cuts, the 2006 budget is a completely new one. We'll get more movies. We'll get better movies, and hopefully we'll also get more audiences about Norwegian movies in cinema, so that we get to the goal of selling every fourth ticket to Norwegian movies. Press support is also important. There's been a discussion about it so far. We'll make sure it's not cut into the press support. We want a strong press policy. It would be interesting to hear from the opposition, when you talk about press support, if you also want to take up the big press support, that's the zero rate in the VAT system, which means a lot, or if it's just the production support of the smallest newspapers you want to hit from the opposition. We're also proposing $17 million. kr to a rally-VM. There's been a lot of attention. I can stress that it is a one-off support, but it is important to realize a regular round with the World Cup in Norway. It will bring ring-effects to business life, profile Norway and also make an important contribution to a sport, where we claim ourselves well. For us, the cultural promise is not just money. It's also raising culture. It's giving each child an opportunity to learn how to play an instrument or to participate in theaters. It is also foreign to profile the Norwegian culture and all the many expressions and the good artists we have in Norway. The Minister of Finance has said this: ‘Culture is investment in democracy, innovation and everything that makes life worth living. And good business policy.’» That's why I'm proud to belong to this government, which sees that culture and art can help create a better society in almost all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e786	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e789	The state councils have recently been in the media and launched the foreign idea of what is called ‘Artbank’ – renting art and museum objects. It's great that the Council of State will introduce it. As a former representative of the Committee, the Council of State was involved when we passed the copyright law. It says, among other things: something about the criminality of stealing copyrights. The proposal from the Council of State is a copy of the document No. 8:98 for 2002-2003, which even has a separate comprehensive section on ‘Artbank’. In fact, it was also a proposal which reached a great deal of agreement in Stortinget, also by the Workers' Party, and was unanimously adopted, as far as I remember. My question to the Council of State is: When will the Council of State ensure that the proposal in Document No. 8:98, for which a unanimous greatness went in favour, is put out of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e796	I will give the representative Mr Knudsen the credit that this is a matter that the Progress Party has proposed. It is an example of the old slogan ‘Blind hens also find grains’. This is a proposal that we will follow up, but I think maybe the device will be a little different than the Progress Party had intended, because then we talked about Munch and the great masters. Now we might have a little problem with lending Munch paintings right now, and the security issue around the most expensive artworks can be troubling. What we're thinking of is new artists and new works of art, that is, contemporary art, which doesn't necessarily get a market so fast and easily, but which can become known through this. People can see them, experience them, and perhaps eventually become interested in buying them. How fast we can get this in place is uncertain. We have to figure out which institutions are going to have this. Should the ordinary libraries have a separate department, as they have for music and videograms – the Progress Party has been a bit skeptical about the pages of the libraries around – or should it be its own institutions? This is an idea we really want to work on and try to realize, hopefully with the support of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e803	The President is somewhat uncertain about what blind hens do in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e806	It is a characteristic of blind chickens that they appear in the most surprising places! I would like to raise a question that may not be in the middle of the budget, but which is an important question for the artists in this country. It concerns the copyright law and the framework for the copyright law in a digital future. A number of concerns have been raised in recent days, and I would like the Minister of Culture to take this opportunity to stress that the copyright law also applies in the digital field in the basic areas of remuneration, copying and publication – i.e. the key areas that need to be protected in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e813	The debate on the copyright law in June this year was a very good example of the spring that became five chickens. Whether they were blind or not – I think the jam was a couple of them blind too. We have reached a broad consensus in the Chamber that all the copyrighted copyrights are entitled to remuneration for use. When we talk about implicitly consenting to use in the wording we had in the comment, it doesn't mean free use. Negotiations shall take place between the parties, as Kopinor does on behalf of its rightholders towards users, whether it is the university sector, municipalities or other users. There are private-law negotiations, in which we don't want to interfere when the parties are sitting at the table. But of course, it's quite obvious that those who have rights attached to a copyright agency also have the right to payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e820	The following proposals were supported in the context of the discussion of the growing communication on culture and industry: ‘The Government requests the submission of a comprehensive cross-sectoral action plan in which the food and innovation policy instrument is actively used to ensure a better exploitation of the potential of the cross-cutting field between culture and industry.’ This could be done, for example, by: are tax-incentives. My question to the Council of State is, how does the Council of State want to follow up the decision that was taken? Many people in the cultural field, not least in films, who I know the Council of State is busy with, will be able to get more private capital if so, for example. was tax-incentive for it. If the Council of State could give an answer to that question, it would be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e830	When we dealt with the big message of culture and industry in the previous ageing period, one of our objections, which was then in opposition, was that it was too little concrete in relation to the actions to be implemented and the objectives to be achieved. That is what we are going to do by getting close cooperation, not only between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but also between the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that we get a full commitment with the usual economic policies. We should also involve the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, combined with the export of Norwegian art and culture – and through it have a comprehensive policy to establish good, viable jobs in the highly expanding business area of creative industries. In addition, we have announced that we should have a review of the living conditions of cultural workers and artists. Many are self-employed, and many have low incomes and are poorly covered by the usual social welfare schemes, which means that fewer people dare to invest in a profession and a career in these areas. It is also an essential part of the commitment to this as an economic pathway. We're going to work as fast as we can, and we're definitely going back to Stortinget with different grips in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e837	I have two questions that are important for the Christmas peace in the country. I raised the questions in my post, but since it is not only my peace it is about, but also about others, I would like to ask them directly to the Council of State. One is about Stavanger. I know what the plan of the previous Minister of Culture was: to distribute the grants over the years and to achieve what was promised in relation to Stavanger as a city of culture. It has not been agreed by the majority at the committee's hearing, but I hope that the Council of State can clarify it here, so that they can plan as usual. The second is about the folk music scene at Schous, which requires predictability in order to conclude the long-term lease, as the boat is now going. I'm very happy if the Council of State can clarify these two things, so Christmas peace can sink over both Stavanger and the folk music world.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e849	I have read in the paper that the representative Skei Grande was going to become this big-time gist – in opposition to the Minister of Culture. Then I just have to say that the representative must be a lot crazier to the Council of State if she is to reach that ambition. So to the question. First of all, Stavanger. There's a little bit of a typical stumbling block in a budget, where you have a three-year payment, and where the outgoing government put in much less than a third to get this into goal. But we have the ambition to fulfill what we have said that the state should commit itself to in relation to Stavanger. Of course, it must be dealt with in each year's budget. The second is about the folk music scene. I think it is wrong that the Stortinget and the Council of State should go out publicly and say that it and the lease should be concluded. These are negotiations, and these are private actors. We need a certain room for negotiation in order to find good financial arrangements. But the important thing is that we have found the money. And here we separate layers with the representative Skei Grande. Because you have to have the money to implement the projects, not just have good intentions. It is such that this budget increases the cultural share of the state budget. What the Left proposes actually reduces the proportion of culture in the state budget. Then you get further away from one percent than you were before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e858	We get to tolerate blind hens as long as the bird virus doesn't catch us. To the Council of State: It is very good and quite reassuring to hear that the Council of State continues to invest a lot in volunteering. I think that's good to hear. What I could imagine was that he answered, "What's he going to do to get back to Stortinget in relation to sports?" In the state budget, it's for information, for those of us who read it, that $12 billion goes to sport. It is okay that we do not have much control over that money, but it could be very easy to get feedback on how this money is used. So I wonder, will the Council of State come up with a sports message, possibly a volunteer message including sport?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e867	I have noticed that the opposition has worried that the budget has an allocation account of approximately NOK 6 million. But it's a much more important point the representative Woldseth has in mind, that the sport gets 200 times this sum – NOK 1.2 billion – that is distributed without the Storting actually saying a pipe. I don't think we should put the sports money back to Stortinget, but we somehow need to get a proper debate on sports in each state budget, or in the context of the budget. I do not know whether to do so by means of a notice, an annual annex to the budget or how to do so. However, involving Stortinget and political Norway much more strongly in how sport, which is Norway’s sovereign largest voluntary movement, can be lifted, improved framework conditions and improved operating conditions in the municipality of Norway and at national level, become important. That's where I think the $6 billion will be spent on the municipal sector is the most important thing -- providing more lanes, more halls, reasonable rents and these little crowns to different teams and associations, which actually make the work a little easier, and which allows you to do a little less with money collection and a little bit more with activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e872	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e875	Both in the posts of the state council, Olemic Thommessen and Karin Woldseth, and in a comment from the president, hens were a theme. You have probably also noticed that both the council and I are in a bit of a bad shape, with a bad neck, today. In that way, maybe chicken soup is recommended. We just have to hope that the press does not write in the record that the debate on the cultural budget was kazing. During the election campaign, we have heard politicians from both the SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party talk very much about the voluntary sector. The voluntary sector in Norway is a very important complement to the public, both in terms of well-being, health and sport. This has also been repeated in the debate today by the Council of State and by several other speakers. The rescue company, the Red Cross, the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, Sports, Corps Movement, Associations, Laws, etc. is a large movement of people that contributes in a very positive way in Norwegian society. It is good that our new government parties have brought this with them. But there are two key questions: first, whether they will remember the warm review and the beautiful words when it comes to it hard in government offices, and whether they will actually do something concrete for the voluntary sector. There are some uncertain signals in the budget. We record saying positive things about volunteer offices, and more money for free funds. They say something about a volunteer register. But the question is how to follow it up. Over time, we have seen up to many examples of politicians with short memory, and ‘vallöftealzheimer’ — to use such a word — is a relatively widespread disease in political life in Norway. On the part of the Progress Party, the recipe for the voluntary sector is clear, and it is also in line with the wishes of the organisations. We need to simplify VAT rules and make tax rules as simple as possible for the voluntary sector. It is true that if you run a sports team or a club, you don't have the same administrative resources as big companies. But a lot of the legislation is unfortunately the same. We hope that a voluntary register can help change the rules and make it easier to operate in the voluntary sector in Norway. We need to build on the tax deduction system introduced by the Bondevik Government with the support of the Advance Party, and would like to extend it both to the extent and amount, preferably up to NOK 24 000. It is not pleasant when we see that the government adds that the deduction should be kept silent, that you do not go in the 15 000 kroner that the old government parties proposed and that went in the right direction. We must have equal opportunities for state games and the lottery activities of volunteers with regard, inter alia, to: premiums. You ask people around in Freedom Norway, this is very central to securing income in the long term. In this area, it is also the case that the lottery of volunteers over time has had much worse conditions than that of state games. We need to ensure that public agencies improve their cooperation with volunteers and put this at the heart of their work in the future. We must ensure that the cultural budgets prioritise the voluntary organisations and not the large, key performance projects, as they have tended, among other things. through the big opera building that shoots up here in Oslo. We must also reverse the decisions taken by Stortinget in the so-called automatic matter. Now it may be that international courts take care to do so for us, but so far very many live in uncertainty in this area. As my colleague, Mr Woldseth, pointed out, it is also true that many thousands of small associations and teams have their income in this area – psoriatic associations, sports teams, corps, etc. In fact, when a small local association receives a reduction in income of NOK 200000 to NOK 300000, it is a very strong part of the business with which it operates. I noticed that the Prime Minister said in his government statement: «The government will facilitate good conditions for the voluntary sector as important contributors and complements to public services.» We have also noticed positive features in the budget that the Government has now presented. However, we are still uncertain, and we feel that it is long to say that the current government is friendly to the voluntary organizations. Then to a concrete matter in the budget. The representative Gjul opened the discussion about this with a pop and rock experience center. I think in her post she asked three times about where Per Sandberg is. It may be a little questionable to ask that question today, because, as the representative Gjul probably knows, Per Sandberg is most likely at a funeral today. Now she knows, at least. She pointed out quite correctly that the Progress Party has adjusted its position on the matter. We're not hiding that. When we see very good reasons to adjust our position, we do. I don't doubt that you have an excellent pop and rock environment in Trøndelag, and that it has given us many good artists. It was certainly possible to mention more than the four groups she mentioned in her article. But it's a fact that 80 percent of the music industry is in Oslo. It's a fact that FONO has said that Oslo is the option that should be chosen. It is a fact that the Institute for Norsk Popular Music, Norsk Folkemuseum, Norsk Viseforum, Norsk Musikkbibliotekforening, Norsk Folkemusik- og Danselag, Norsk Country Musikk Verbund, among others. has made provision for Oslo. It is a fact that the clear cheapest solution is Oslo. Of the numbers we've been presented so far, the Oslo option is about 20 million. kr, while the Trondheim option is 32 million. kr, which is a relatively significant difference. It is also true that there are very many Norwegian artists who have clearly said that they support the Oslo proposal. We actually depend on the Norwegian artists to get this project up and running. Among the great Norwegian artists who have been in charge of Oslo are Arne Bendiksen, Jahn Teigen, Lillebjørn Nilsen, Jan Eggum, Steinar Albrigsen, Kaizers Orchestra, Turboneger, Sissy Wish, Surferosa, Karen Jo Fields, etc., etc. I could fill the rest of the two minutes I have left with names. So it's the way that both industry and economy want this to be the right place to put it. And when it's so massive in this area, the Progress Party sees no reason not to adjust its position, and so should the government parties. When you make such choices only for district reasons, it can be very wrong. I can assure the representative Gjul that in no way do we have any fear of thunder in the Party of Advancement. In fact, we also have a parliamentary Vice-President who is a trouser.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e910	The approach to culture has for many years been marked by great goodwill, but little interest. For the great words, little has manifested itself in real priorities and powerful cultural budgets. Based on past history, I'd rather say that we're facing a quantum leap: not only has the government in its additional position increased the allocation of culture by 170 million. kr, but has also committed to a culturallift, a stepping up of the cultural effort to 1 pst. of the State budget by 2014. In order to further stress that the cultural effort is not only a part of the celebrations, the Government has committed itself to promoting a cultural law expressing public responsibility for the cultural field. Because it is similar in this area as in other welfare policy areas: the market is not an effective instrument. If the objective is to ensure development opportunities for different cultural environments and new cultural expressions, such as majority or minority environments, corps movement, rock or district operas, or if one is to ensure a general availability of cultural experiences, it must be noted that the market and its mechanisms will not ensure this. Therefore, there is a need for active cultural policies laid down by law and by economic organisation. Our national heritage is important to our identity. It gives us the roots and experiences of community – a security-creating ballast that is good to have with us when we meet tomorrow's globalised societies and with the new cultural expression. However, the need for cultural identity is not limited to the majority population. Perhaps the need for minorities in our country is even greater. Our history is full of abuses against minorities, among other things. against the Sami population, and many Sami people in our near past have grown up and felt inferior and forced to deny their culture and identity. It is therefore fantastic to see today how the Sami culture flourishes, and it is important to support that growth and preserve the Sami cultural memories as is done in the budget. Immigration has given Norway new minorities. We don't have to do the same assault again. The need for cultural identity applies to all. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child stresses this: Education of children should aim to develop respect for the child’s parents, the child’s own cultural identity, language and values. This obliges and must, as the Government emphasizes, also be expressed in the allocation of cultural resources. Finally, a few words about sport. The movement I come from, the labour movement, knows the significance of sport, not only for physical birth, but also for social identity and social participation. We need to use that understanding when building multi-use halls today and making them available to everyone. Everyone also means that there must be room for new sports — sports that have not been the traditional Norwegian branches. That means cricket courts, basketball courts, land hockey courts, volleyball, etc. I feel confident that when the tippers are to be distributed, the Council will actively follow up the Soria Moria declaration, which says that one will ‘make the multicultural perspective visible in all fields of cultural life and contribute to the creation of better meeting places between majority and minority cultures’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e930	On behalf of SV, I would like to say three hurrahs for this cultural budget. It was a great experience to hear during the financial debate that the representative Lånke from the Christian People's Party congratulated the Council of State on the budget, and that the representative Olemic Thommes too was satisfied. I also believe that he has said many times during this debate. The only representative in this Chamber who has great concern and fear is the representative from the Left. It was an important preliminary work by the government parties in the cultural sector when they established a solid cultural policy platform through the Cultural Promise. One of the most important aspects of cultural policy in the SV has been to achieve 1 pst for many years. of the State budget for cultural purposes. The work to achieve this cultural policy objective has now begun, with the budget of the year. And it will continue, because the Council of State has the Minister of Finance on hand. Another big victory for SV is the cultural map. The meaning of the cultural card is that art and culture should be accessible to all children and young people, regardless of the economy of their parents. Children and young people must have an alternative. We want to encourage them from being consumers of goods to become cultural consumers. We want to encourage children and young people to experience art and culture – so they just have to have it. It is very good that funds are now being set aside for the monitoring of the artists' living conditions. Artist organisations shall be involved in advance of this mapping in order to ensure that their competence and experience are used as a basis for the further process. Different artists have difficult working conditions, and many live on very small incomes. It will be important to look at the living conditions of artists and the social security systems of these groups — among others. maternity and adoption pension schemes, sickness insurance schemes, pension schemes and day-to-day pay schemes. The government is now taking the first step towards a more holistic cultural policy across the sectors. Cross-sectoral cooperation has been called for for many years to provide a comprehensive overview of the many tasks of the cultural sector, which are divided into several departments. By looking at cultural policy as a whole, we will be able to increase diversity. Active cooperation with local businesses is important in order to achieve culturally based economic development. However, the market alone is not sufficient to ensure the quality and diversity of cultural life. The State will always have an overall responsibility to promote Norway as a cultural nation, and thus has a special responsibility to take care of cultural areas that have values in addition to purely commercial ones. It is an important objective to ensure a level playing field for women and men in the field of culture. Norwegian film environments, especially the Norwegian Film Institute, have worked actively to get more women into film production, both in front and behind the camera. This is good. In the creative process, it is important to take care of a variety of expressions, because women and men see differently in the world. It is extremely important that we now get a gender perspective into cultural policy. I hope that the Council of State will be concerned about this in the future as well. What is important in this budget is that the local government sector and the counties have received a significant boost in their economy. This means that there is now room for a strengthening of culture and volunteering around municipalities and county municipalities. In the last four years, SV has also been concerned that when you set up the cultural budget, you have to look at the entire counties around the country. It is such that there are different grants to the individual counties. That is why I am particularly pleased – I have to send a little Christmas card home – that Østfold has strengthened its cultural areas, the Medieparken in Fredrikstad, Østfoldmuseet, Galleri F 15, Momentum, Østfold Theatre and the Institute for Journalism. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e953	In very large parts of Culture-Norway, the budget we are about to adopt today is referred to in good and positive terms. It's joy and enthusiasm – it's a boost to culture. At a time of year when the night drops black, next year's cultural budget is closest to Lucia's. At least it'll light up cultural life over that pretty country. In the magazine of the Norwegian Skuespellerförbund, we read that the Federal Head of State refers to this budget as follows: ‘A magnificent Christmas present!’ Furthermore, it is found that: ‘The cultural comrades Sp, SV and AP have shown that they are serious about their cultural promise.’ The acting association is quite right. We're serious about our cultural promise. That's why we've now started the most ambitious escalation of the cultural sector ever towards the goal of making culture 1 pst. of the appropriations entered in the budget. Several of the representatives of the parties who are now in opposition have recalled that it would be when the specific budgets were to be presented and the proper money would be on the table, that one got to see if there really was anything in the promises of the government parties. That case should now be closed. The escalation is in progress. Culture shall be lifted. And the promises are being kept. The cultural budget is a budget that primarily raises large parts of cultural life, because culture itself is important. But there is also a budget in which a person takes inward that culture is also experiences, culture is well-being and joy, culture is business development and jobs. That is why the rural profile in the budget is so clear. The majority of the forces include: regional performing arts institutions. We're going to reverse the Bondevik government's cut in the Free Fund scheme for the voluntary organizations. We are increasing the appropriations for the Norwegian Cultural Fund, and we are strengthening the regional film initiative. All of these are examples of actions that help the public to get more and better experiences at the different cultural events, that we get more and better productions in the district as well, and that enable more tourists and visitors to participate in and experience culture around the country. Let me do two examples: Peer Gynt is a festival that attracts thousands of travellers to Oppland and Gudbrandsdalen every summer. They come to see the theater, they come to see the interaction between professional actors and musicians and local amateurs, they come to experience good literature, good concerts and other good cultural expressions. That in itself is important, because Ibsen and Grieg have been responsible for invaluable cultural expressions and contributions to Norwegian cultural life. But it is also important because it results in pride, faith and optimism among all those who are in some form or another. This means jobs in the district, and it means growth in one of the industries where we in Norway have very good opportunities, namely the experience industry. For the next year, we ask that the department assess whether the Peer Gynt mood should become a hub institution as a genre-wide festival. I think the interaction between professional practitioners and local amateurs is one of the success criteria for creating a further boost for culture. Another example is the films «Vinterkiss» and «Pitbullterje». «Vinterkiss» is a festival and prize winning event. The film is among others: Nominated as a Norwegian candidate for the Oscar Prize for Best Foreign Production, and recently received the jury’s main prize as the best film at the American Film Institute’s film festival in Los Angeles. ‘Pit bulldozer’ is now going to cinemas around the country. So far, over 148 000 people have seen the film. It could be Film3's first commercial success. Both films are examples of the fact that bets on regional film environments, such as Film3 at Lillehammer, contribute to the development of good Norwegian film and to business development and jobs. Increased investment in the regional film environment is therefore an important part of the government’s film initiative. There will be more new companies, more jobs, and more people will live in the districts. It may not be jobs and turnover that we primarily think about when we go to cinema to see a good Norwegian film, or when we see a good Norwegian TV production. It shouldn't be. But it's not an immaterial side effect of the good movies that there's going to be jobs. This is why it is important to focus on culture, on film, and also on regional and industrial policy. When the Energy Battle is shown at the NRK and when the "Pitbullterje" goes to cinema, there are jobs in Wågå, Lillehammer and elsewhere in the interior. Such examples can be found all over the country. At the end of the year, it may therefore be nice to know that when we go into 2006, it is safe to be assured that the ambitions for Norwegian film are not weakened, but strengthened. In the Soria Moria statement, we're saying we're going to realize the cultural promise. That's the job we're doing with this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e991	We've got a cultural government – a government of three parties that went to elections on a promise of a cultural promise. That's what we're doing now. We have started the long-term towards 2014, the year we have flashed out as the cultural budget will be at least 1 pst. by the State budget. Norway as a cultural nation needs to be built along two main lines: a clear commitment to the creative and executive professionals and the environment – many of which we have across the country – and the voluntary cultural life, which is carried out with great commitment by both adults and children. The government has taken several steps to ensure cultural policy along these two main lines. The Soria Moria Declaration follows up the point of the Cultural Promise to introduce a simple general cultural law to express public responsibility in the field of culture. The government has also announced an artist's message, which is to identify the artist's living conditions on a broad basis. It is an important step towards raising a group of low and unpredictable incomes – because it is actually the case for many artists. The government has for next year taken some extra lift in some important fields. There's more to bet on film. Norwegian film fund has increased by 14 million. kr on next year's budget. The government has also increased the contribution to the regional film initiative. The emergence of exciting film environments around the country shows an important development in the film field, which can lead to a vitalization of the film here with us, as has happened in Sweden – where Film in West Trollhättan and Film in North Luleå have been important contributions to the success of Swedish film in recent years, both qualitatively and commercially. In this regard, I have to mention that one of Scandinavia's leading cinematographers in an interview in the evening post recently called Filmcamp Målselv in Troms for the leading and best film studio in the Nordic region. Also in the field of music, important steps are now being taken. The establishment of three national centres for different forms of music such as jazz, rhythmic music, folk music and folk dance, pop and rock is a handshake to strong and vital music environments around the country, which can show both to creators and performers of international class, and a breadth and commitment that embraces music school students to good adult people. The national scene of folk music and folk dance will be established in Oslo, in the Schous quarter, and will be a cultural turning point for both Norwegian culture of tradition and the multicultural expressions. I would like to stress that we want to raise the multicultural field, regardless of whether or not someone chooses to organize themselves in an ethnic-Norwegian way. Cosmopolite in Oslo becomes important for jazz, as a national jazz scene. Norwegian jazz has many brilliant practitioners, and jazz needs and deserves a national scene. The national pop and rock centre shall be located in Trondheim and Namsos. The idea has grown from a broad commitment in the two cities and in central Norway, and has been greatly aroused also outside the region and by several organisations and individuals that I am not going to mention here. So when such a center is added to Tree Layer, it happens in a region that has strong traditions of pop and rock. I want to bring forward some important music-historical events that took place 30 years ago. That's when the international political currents ran along with the development of new musical expressions, which here in our home gave rise to a very important linguistic innovation: we started using Norwegian dialects, even in the skirt. It was this development that found a very powerful expression in what was called the thunderbolt, and which has later provided a linguistic platform for musicians like DumDum Boys, Stavangerensemblet, Anne Grete Prøis and Kaizers Orchestra. The current focus on three national music centres — two in Oslo and one in Trøndelag — is an important part of the cultural nation building, where it is actually important to have national institutions outside the capital. National scenes are given the task of developing active networks, where the many strong and vibrant music environments around the country have to be activated. The government has promised to contribute to the development of the network, and it was to match well with the intention papers of the music organisations concerned, Consultant, which for the first time calls for an overall dissemination concept for jazz, pop, rock and folk music. It was quite special to be here in the hall during the foreign debate a week ago. It was the first time I heard a Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs open his speech in Stortinget to talk about culture. The government has entered into the 20 million cut budget. kr to the culture and information provided by the Bondevik II Government. It was nice to hear Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre talk about the importance of a strong foreign policy cultural effort. Culture must be an important part of people's peoples' cooperation, not least in the North Region policy. Such cooperation has existed for several generations in the north and has links between the peoples that neither hot nor cold war has the power to tear apart. It is therefore gratifying that the Government also includes culture in designing a comprehensive and cross-sectoral policy for the north and for the interaction we should otherwise have with the international community and with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1016	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1019	The representative Britt Hildeng had an excellent piece about ballast and roots, that is, our national cultural heritage. And in a line to the representative Sande earlier today, I took up what is in the Soria Moria Declaration, that our national cultural heritage also means our Christian heritage. If I understand the representative Hildeng correctly, it was of course a balance; one should not appear superior on behalf of one's own cultural heritage in the meeting with other cultures. But then it's a different side of the same thing: it's embarrassing on behalf of its own cultural heritage. There I have to say that this government is very well committed to acting embarrassed on behalf of the Christian part of the cultural heritage. Well, that's what we're seeing now, when we get over two pages in the VG today, that a school in Lillehammer with less than 20 students of ethnic origin other than Norwegian reasons why you're no longer going to serve as a school god, while the principal at one of the Oslo schools, Gran School at Furuset – and those who know that school, know that they take integration policy very seriously – says the following: «The Christian Christmas celebration has a long tradition, and it's all wrong to cut out the school divination. It's a non-themed thing with us." I also see the letter from the County of Eastfold to the schools in Fredrikstad as a response to the signals given by the new government. In a letter to a school, the county councilman, as it says in the VG, writes that jubilee services are ‘marked as illegal religious practice’. I think you better listen to Muslim Aslam Ahsan, who I also think has a party background that makes someone maybe listen to him more than others. He says, ‘I have no understanding that Muslim children should feel supported by a Christian celebration. Of course, Muslim children should be allowed not to participate [[...]] [[...]] It is sad to have to admit that we have received a government that is obviously outlawed on behalf of important parts of the Norwegian cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1039	We have adjusted our position in relation to Rock City, says Ulf Erik Knudsen. Ulf Erik Knudsen based his entire argument on what has come to light in connection with hearings and comments after the case has been investigated. There is reason to remind both the Knudsen and the Progress Party that the possibility of addressing such types of investigations and hearings has been rejected several times in the Stortinget. Had the Advancement Party got it as they would, and as they have voted in the hall earlier, everything had been located in Namsos, nothing in Trondheim and nothing in Oslo. So a little walk into the representative Skei Grande. When the red-green parties launched the cultural promise, we said that 1 pst. the state budget was to go to culture, and it was to be implemented within 10 years. Schei Grande’s comment was that this was ‘patetic populist overbidder policy’. That was for approx. Two years ago. During this year's election campaign, the representative Skei Grande told me that the Left will implement this in four years. In a debate on the National Library, she even suggested that this should be carried out in one year. Then maybe it's okay to make Skei Grande's words their own and say that this is pathetic populist overbidder policy. So what are they doing in practice? What is left to do in practical policy? In this year's cultural budget we have seen that in the proposal that also had Skei Grande's signature, it was suggested 1.3 pst. increase in culture. That's to reverse, that. It's not even a compensation for price and salary growth. It is as if I were going to call my wife home and say that this year I intend to go home to the Drammen for Christmas. I'm starting today, tomorrow I'm at the Winter Bridge, and little Christmas night looks like I'm in Moss. I'm not going to use the left road map, I'm going to take the red-green train to the Drammen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1050	No more have asked for the word to be used for area 3. We are going to go to the debate on the 2nd framework area, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1055	I would also like to begin by thanking the Committee on Budgetary Control for a very tidy procedure and for a good cooperation. In my post, I want to talk most about the Christian People's Party's policy, and expect the various parties to come up with their primary positions and the background for their budgetary treatment. The family is the beginning of the life-walking of a child. Family frames growth, same way the family is composed. That's why the Christian People's Party is busy giving the family better odds for happiness in its task. We therefore suggest making the life course ‘Good start’ available throughout the country, a life course that provides newly-baked parents with tools to deal with everyday life. This is particularly important at a time when very many marriages are dissolved and many children have a change in everyday life and life. If this trend can be reversed by preventive work that allows the family to live better together, this could have positive consequences, both in terms of human and socio-economic. In such a context, it is important that the work of the government from which the network has gone off in developing knowledge and competence in family protection is followed up. I am pleased that the new government will lead the system with two tracks in family protection, both church and public. Parents have the primary responsibility for raising their children. Then it is important for society to make the best possible possible way for them to carry out that responsibility in a good way. What it means, varies from family to family. Families are different and have different needs. That is precisely why the Christian People's Party is concerned that the state must facilitate different choices. When we know that 80,000 families of children receive cash support, and that very many of them want to continue with it, we don't take our families seriously by cutting 273 million. NOK in cash support. A joint committee says in its opinion that ‘a family policy tailored to the needs and needs of families is important’. Then it is incomprehensible that the government party goes in to reduce the freedom of choice of family members by cutting cash support. Right, Christian People's Party, Left, and Progress Party make suggestions in the setting where we ask the Government to make sure that there is no additional cut in cash support until we reach full child care coverage. This is a modest proposal that the government party should be able to vote for. It was this birthright they gave to infants' parents in Soria Moria. Now they need to provide them with the security they promised. Kindergartens are an important social institution, which helps parents with care and care. Kindergartens convey values and culture and encourage children to experience joy and maesterdom in a social and cultural community. That's why the Christian People's Party is investing in kindergarten. But we have a different priority than the government party. For us, full child care and equal treatment for private and public kindergartens are more important than putting down the maximum price extra for those who are already so lucky to have a kindergarten. That's what we have seen through our suggestions in the setting. Family policy is about facilitating good choices and providing parental guidance and support. First of all, it's about time and relationships. As politicians, we can't create the good conversation, but we can make it possible for parents not to be enslaved by the labour market, by facilitating good leave arrangements and the possibility of part-time work. As politicians, we cannot abolish divorce, but we can offer life courses and preventive family work. As politicians, we can't force fathers to prioritize getting together with children, but we can facilitate that parenthood is equally binding whether you're a mother or a father, and keeping your father's leave. As politicians, we cannot provide care for children who are failing by parents, but we can facilitate better cooperation between the professional community working with disadvantaged children and their parents. Thus, the Christian People’s Party supports child protection as an important partner and resource for parents. We also support the support scheme for child and youth action in larger urban communities as a targeted tool to improve growth and living conditions for children and young people with special needs. As politicians, we can't secure all children's friends, but we can bet on good kindergartens and good schools with conscious and schooled adults that facilitate play and learning and have zero tolerance for bullying. Then, projects such as ‘Shall not’ are important, and I am very pleased that the Church, Education and Research Committee has contributed funds to the continuation of this important value project. There are many challenges ahead of us in family policy. I think we're going into an exciting period, where this committee will be uplifting and discussing important things. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions in the setting to which the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1087	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the suggestions to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1092	For the representative Molvær Grimstad and the Christian People's Party, freedom of choice is a very important concept of family policy. That's for all of us. We can see that when freedom of choice is finally about to become real, in the sense that we are getting full babysitting and low prices, parents choose to use this offer to a large extent. Surveys have been carried out by the Central Statistical Office to show that if female participation in employment had been as low as that in Germany, the value creation in Norway would have been many billion dollars lower. This would have contributed to lower tax access and less well-being in Norway. At 80 pst. by the midwives of young children are economically active, clearly important for the creation of value added. But when Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Odd Eriksen mentions the same thing, Molvær Grimstad opposes. Is it really the case that the Christian People’s Party does not want mothers of young children to be active? Is it really the case that the Christian People's Party is now reluctant to realize that when the kindergartens get cheaper and more, there are many women who choose that rather than to be at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1101	I thank the representative Gjul for his question. In the Christian People's Party, we're busy getting full babysitting, and everyone who wants babysitting will get it. But what was so strange about the Minister of Industry's performance was that it didn't sound as if we in Norway could afford the parents who wanted to be home with the children to be. We do not want a single policy to the extent that we should only stimulate one choice, that everyone should be out of work all the time. But we're making up for an option where parents themselves can make this choice. We also need to look at the value of a person’s desire to be at home — it also needs to be valued. I want everyone who wants to be active to be active. That's why it's important for us to get full babysitting. We're on the right track, but we're not in the right direction. But I think, unfortunately, it takes even longer to get full child care coverage when the government prioritizes further reduction of the maximum price, rather than prioritizing first to get full child care coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1112	A number of recent cases have been identified in which minor asylum seekers have been excluded from Norwegian reception. You have a reply to the government parties in the setting, where you say that: ‘child protection is already the responsibility of the follow-up of unaccompanied minors to reception’. You're going to say, ‘It will be essential whether the child needs a measure under the Child Protection Act. If the child lives in a proper care situation, such as with relatives, the responsibilities of the child protection service will be subsidiary.’;» How should child protection detect the situation of these children and their needs for care? There is no authorisation system, there is no supervision system for minor asylum seekers, nor is it the case that child protection investigates the situation of these children when they come to the country. These are our weakest kids, and I wonder how you have thought that child protection should know what care needs these children have?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1127	There's an important question for the May Hansen representative here, about the minor refugees. Today, municipalities have a responsibility for the children who are in the municipality. There have been discussions about different measures and what you can do to ensure the best for these children. It is right that we point out that one refers to the responsibility of the municipalities today, and that for all children who are in Norway today, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child applies. Children's protection law applies to all children living in Norway, including single minor asylum seekers. It is therefore important that this work is followed closely. We believe that the municipalities will follow this responsibility. If it turns out that it doesn't happen, we're going to have to follow developments within this area carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1132	The representative of Molvær Grimstad has a commitment for children and young people, and despite this, the Christian People's Party has been responsible for a municipal economy over the last few years that has made many municipalities cut short – it is lower staffing in kindergartens or fewer teachers in school. Under the Christian People's Party, we also know that alcohol consumption among young people has increased and snapped at a high level, while at the same time reducing the number of drug-free meeting places around the country. What will the Christian People’s Party do to improve the supply of children and young people around our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1139	The Christian People's Party is concerned about the situation and the growing-up conditions for children and young people. That is why it has been important for us to give priority to offensive child and family policies. The growing conditions in the big cities, which have been mentioned before, are important. The municipal economy is also important in relation to the welfare provision to be provided by the municipality to children and young people. The previous government, the Co-operation Agency, granted an increased license to municipalities. We know that there was a desire to get even more funds for this, and we were about to escalate. At the same time, we were concerned that we should have a good and offensive industrial policy that created tax revenues for the municipalities, which could be involved and provide better welfare. Here are challenges ahead of us. I feel that the Christian People's Party has been offensive when this is the case, and hope that the new government will follow up part of the important work we have started.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1144	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1148	The small children's parents are the clear budgetary gains with the new red-green government. As early as 1 January, the small children’s parents will notice on the wallet that the children’s playgrounds have become cheaper. For a government that had only been sitting for 24 days when it laid out its first budget, and which has moved in total at the base of NOK 10 billion, there is a very clear priority when, at the base of NOK 1 billion of these, the maximum price of kindergartens is reduced to NOK 2 250. This is a government that is serious about the nursery arrangement. The next thing we're serious about red-green is that we want full babysitting. Each stone should now be turned and turned to find out what is preventing municipalities and private developers from building more kindergartens than they are currently doing. We have an ambition to turn down the lap times and get to the measurements as soon as possible with full babysitting. The opposition is well aware that a reduction in the maximum price will further delay the development of kindergartens. The working party disagrees with the opposite. During the year, three out of four municipalities will have full childcare coverage. In these municipalities, a single kindergarten will not be built until the maximum price has been lowered further. It is only then that they have to meet any additional need, which also gives reason to build more kindergartens. Therefore, it is extremely important to lower the maximum price to NOK 2 250 from 1 January, so that there are no delays in the development of kindergartens. It is also interesting to note that when young children’s parents are given real freedom of choice through cheaper and more kindergartens, the vast majority of them choose kindergarten rather than other care options. Good, reasonable and accessible childcare facilities are important for providing equal opportunities for all children. Space in kindergarten can improve Norwegian skills for children with minority parents and can help to help children in families with different types of problems. Families in need of child protection are seen and given early help. For example, children with a minority background receive help. to master the Norwegian language. That is why the Labour Party is very pleased that the new government in its draft budget will spend 10 million. kr for free core time in kindergartens for children with a migrant background. Infant families shall have the possibility of combining care for children with work or education. The development of kindergartens so that the provision is available to children at the request of their parents is also important to ensure the well-being and good development of all children. The kindergarten shall be a common experience and the learning venue for the children, irrespective of the economic, social and cultural background of the parents. The working party believes it is important to give the family concept an extended content. The A4 family – two adults and two children – is not alone in being a family. Today, two adults with yours and mine and maybe our children are an equally common family constellation. But why make this a bigger problem than it really is? Many children experience it as very positive to grow up in this, perhaps today's big family. Lonely caregivers with children are another type of family, and gay and lesbian couples, with and without children, are a third type. But solstice also becomes an increasingly common family form. The family policy of this red-green government will be marked by rawness and acceptance for people's choice. No family forms are better than others. The love between two people is one of the most beautiful things there is, no matter what lay you have. We must guard ourselves to judge someone from whom they give their heart to. If you are heterophile, homophile, lesbian or bifile for that matter, none of us have the right to raise the index finger and say that someone's feelings are better or worse than those of others. We will continue to improve the conditions for lesbians and gays. That is why the red-green government in the budget has stepped up support for the gay organisations, to ensure that they can work to better respect the rights of this group. Child protection is currently experiencing a significant increase in the number of users of its services, and the Government has therefore granted more money to the department both within the year’s budget and in the budget for 2006 — a total of 300 million. Extra kroner. Child protection is facing major challenges, and the Government is now trying to clean up the economic mess that Buffetat has experienced in recent years. We have to make sure that the children who need help get it. We need to be sure that we provide them with a customised offer that can help them. We have to make sure that the commercial forces, which get heavier and heavier into the child's protection, don't foam the cream. We also have to make sure that we do the right things. These kids deserve to be taken seriously and given help. Children living in poverty find it brutal to be placed on the sidelines of a society that is depleted by milk and honey. One of the most important things we have to do is to combat child poverty by all means. The working party is therefore very pleased that this government is increasing its efforts to help these young people. Young single asylum seekers are also a very vulnerable group in our society. In the last few days, the media have discovered that children are victims of trafficking in Norway as early as the age of 12. The Soria Moria Declaration has agreed that the conditions for these children must be improved and that responsibility must now be transferred to child protection. In the context of the 2006 State budget, a report entitled ‘The allocation of financial resources between women and men’ has been presented. Income, employment and time use’. The report shows that there is still an unacceptable gap between women and men in income. It continues to be that women earn significantly less than men. For the Workers' Party, equality and equal pay are important in our employment policy. I am therefore pleased that the Government will now reduce an equal pay commission. The participation of fathers in the first year of life of children is important, not least in order to establish good contact between father and child, but also in order to ensure a more equal distribution of care responsibilities between parents. It's a good thing that the kids get more time with Dad. But if we're going to get on with the gender equality work, it's necessary for us girls to let boys go more at home. Fathers who take a greater share of the maternity leave also take more responsibility at home than other fathers later. I want to pay tribute to the Bondevik government for the increase in the feather quota by two weeks. But if we're going to get on with gender equality, something revolutionary has to happen at home. We don't get any further unless fathers take a greater responsibility, and not least that we girls are willing to let boys go on their way home. When fathers take equal responsibility at home as mothers, women will be as attractive as men in the labour market. Only when the girls get relief at home will the girls be able to take more responsibility, among other things. take management responsibilities in the labour market. We've got a government and not least a government council that's concerned with gender equality. After a heavy period of stagnation in the field of equality, the Workers' Party has hopes and ambitions that we will move forward in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1182	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1185	The representative began his post by saying that the winners this time were the families of young children. It's a truth with great modifications. The Soria Moria statement says you should not cut the cash support. Nevertheless, the government is going in to cut the cash support. We must note, then, that we do not keep the promises we have made and that we are weakening the situation of a number of families with children. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we believe that cash support should be maintained and preferably increased. My questions to the representative are: Does the representative agree that this type of breach of promises is suitable for weakening the confidence of the elected representatives? To what extent does the representative believe that she will follow the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration? And how are we going to interpret it, when you break the first two weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1194	It is obvious that the infant family is the great winner in this budget. The large majority of children are in kindergarten, and the large majority of parents will have a significant reduction in the cost of kindergarten with this government. It is not that we have made any promises that the level of cash support should be the same as under the Bondevik administration. It was the Bondevik administration that removed the infant supplement, but it kept it for those who are cash beneficiaries. What we've done now is we've removed half of the baby supplement that the cash beneficiaries get. What we agree on is that the cash support will be available until full child care coverage is achieved – and it will be the earliest in 2008 – and then the cash support will be converted. So out of the period, we're going to keep a limited cash support scheme for 1-year-olds and 2-year-olds. It's not about the level, but it's about the scheme, and we're on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1201	My reply goes to the representative Gjuls – I think – rather a special approach to the concept of freedom of choice, from which she proclaimed that she was in favour. It's later that freedom of choice is kind of a theme that disappears at the moment you have full babysitting. But to use kindergarten is not to have freedom of choice. You have freedom of choice when you also have the opportunity to do other things. What the Workers' Party is now signaling is to introduce the really large class division, between those who have kindergarten space, and those who will set up differently and perhaps in the future will not be able to afford to make changes. It has not been given that the nursery service is the only charity. Freedom of choice makes sense at the moment you have real opportunities to make adjustments. I would like to have a comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1210	It is obvious that the Workers' Party is in favour of freedom of choice, but it is also obvious that until today most young children's parents have not had a real freedom of choice. All the young children's mothers and grandchildren who today have completed their maternity leave scheme and who are despondent because they do not know what to do with the small pod on the day they return to work do not experience this as an freedom of choice. They see it as a coercion that they do not have the opportunity to find a good care provision for their children. The fact that they can receive cash support is kind of a patch on the wound. But it does not feel like freedom of choice when you are forced to choose between being at home and possibly finding other care solutions, when you really want to, is a safe and good nursery place for your children. The new government says we're going to have a real freedom of choice now by getting full babysitting, hopefully in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1215	The logic of the freedom of choice should not be to reduce the freedom of choice by reducing the amount of cash. That's what the government does. The representative Gjul said it has our stagnation in the field of equality, but I can't agree on that. I would recommend the representative Gjul to look at the budget proposal presented by the Bondevik II Government. It was, in fact, the government, with Laila Davay as Minister for Gender Equality, who presented to the Stortinget proposals for rules of 40 p.m. representation of both sexes in public limited-liability companies. The promise was made in the autumn of 2003, but it would not come into force if 40 p.m. the representation was not achieved by 1 July 2005 without legislation. In a number of areas, equality work has been strengthened, and I share the commitment of Gjul that it is important to have a good and offensive equality policy. But trying to represent it as if there were stagnation in this area under the previous government becomes a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1222	The stagnation related to gender equality policy was not directly linked to the previous Bondevik government. In fact, I believe that we have had a stagnation in the field of equality over a much longer time perspective, and that we now have to do vital, important action to move on. It is obvious that as long as there is still a mother who has the primary responsibility for children at home, and who takes that responsibility, when there is still a huge pay gap between women and men, and when there are still largely men who take on management responsibility in working life and in business, we have a long way to go in the same-sex Norway before we come to the goal of gender equality policy. That's why I'm very pleased that we have a Council of State and a government that realizes that we need to take some fundamental, new steps to move on in gender equality policy. I am quite convinced that the representative Molvær Grimstad also wants to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1231	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1234	The party of progress is of the opinion that the family is one of the most important pillars of today's society. It is the view of the Progress Party that an active and proper family policy will bring significant societal benefits both in the short and long term. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is very important to give the family considerable freedom in everyday life, the possibility of freedom of choice and the right to dispose of their own family situation. We will stress that the role of parents in relation to the child must never be called into question, as has been done after recent statements by the Minister of Knowledge. The public can never replace the parents in creating a safe framework and belonging to a child. The party of progress will strongly warn against those who try to weaken the role of parents in relation to the child. Kindergartens and parental training are tools that parents are to use in their daily work on assignment, and not least in teaching the child respect for the property of others and others. The party is aware that more and more couples are experiencing a breakup in their lives. This is a development that affects not only Norway but large parts of the Western world. We therefore believe that it is naive to believe that public life courses can reverse this trend. Further escalation of appropriations at such rates cannot be expected to produce any effect, other than possibly increased use of public money. The promotion party wants to adjust the price and cost of the child’s rights. In this context, the Progress Party will demonstrate that the cash support through evaluation has shown that it has been successful and has produced results for the families that have benefited from the scheme. The Progress Party will distance itself from what the Government seems to be working on reducing the payment of cash support. This frameworks parents who have planned an opportunity to be with their children in a period of their children’s lives where parents are very central and important. The Progress Party will stress that, in addition to that, the Government also deprives parents of the possibility of freedom of choice with low income. In reality, this means that once again the government has prioritised middle or high income parents. It'll be an freedom of choice just for the rich. The Progress Party will note that in order to give parents full freedom of choice, various measures will have to be taken to ensure that there will also be full childcare coverage. The compromise adopted by the Storting on kindergartens could provide the basis for full kindergarten coverage and lower parental pay. Non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens ensures a multi-site and lower-cost development. It is precisely a genuine non-discrimination that provides a cost-effective and viable childcare sector. With real non-discrimination, all kindergartens will have the motivation to limit their costs, while focusing on the quality of their services. The Progress Party believes that the unilateral debate on parental pay and coverage will, as soon as full coverage is achieved, be replaced by a stronger focus on quality in the offer. For this reason, it is important to ensure long-term sustainability for both public and private kindergartens, which is best done through genuine non-discrimination. The Progress Party will also point to the fact that many families today are dissolved, which often puts the children involved in a difficult situation. Children must not be used as a weapon in a conflict between their parents, but must be consulted on the issues relating to them. To this end, the Progress Party will point out that most children want equal association with both parents and that this must be done unless there are particular reasons to suggest that it is not for the child’s best. The UN Children's Convention also says that this is a right that individual children have. Norway has incorporated the UN Children’s Convention into its legislation, and we are therefore obliged to facilitate this for all children living in Norway. In this area, we have a long way to go. It is also important, in the view of the Progress Party, that family protection offices should be given the necessary skills to resolve the highly conflict-affected situations they face. The party to the progress is of the opinion that there is too much emphasis on measures intended to promote equality. Such measures are unnecessary and, in some cases, will prevent real equality. In principle, the Advancement Party believes that it is a matter of course that you get equal pay for equal work. Nevertheless, the Progress Party will refrain from granting positions by gender, race or sexual preference. It should be a matter of course that all positions in a society are allocated by competence. Therefore, the Party considers that it is not necessary to spend large sums on equality projects under the authority of the public authorities and has put forward a number of proposals to wind them up. The Progress Party also believes that it is important that consumer considerations are central to the work done on this budget chapter. Consumers shall have the opportunity to reach out with their complaints. The protection of consumers' rights is an essential part of a well-functioning market. Consumer authorities have done a solid job for a number of years, and the Progress Party believes that a strengthening of this area should be considered. We have also tabled a number of proposals to clean up the budget lines in this area. The Progress Party will point out that young people growing up in big cities do not always have the same network as children and young people in the districts. In addition, there is often a tougher environment, and access to drugs of different kinds is greater in big cities. It is therefore important, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that resources be allocated to enable major cities to take preventive action in order to capture children and young people in the risk zone at the earliest opportunity. The party of progress is therefore pleased with the big step forward. Until this year only the ten largest cities in the country have been covered. From 2006, it will cover the 23 largest cities, so even if the post has increased, it really means a greater struggle for the resources. One of the measures in this area is a local measure in my neighbourhood. In the Drammen we have a hall, the Nøstedhallen, for skating and the BMX. An estimated three-quarters of users come from other municipalities, many of them from Oslo, Akershus and Vestfold. We have noticed that there are discussions about how this hall is to be financed. It's actually about a national or rural site. We have taken this up in our remarks, and we have also noticed that the representative Lise Christoffersen from the Workers' Party has stated to Drammen's Official Journal that she is terrified that this measure should be taken. We expect the government to follow up in this area, so Lise Christoffersen will have the opportunity to sleep at night. Finally, some words about cash support – back to that theme. I'll record the answers we get. But when the head of the Labour Party is calling for this to be a matter of freedom of choice, I ask myself a big question. The freedom of choice defined by the position of the Workers' Party is obviously such that you have the freedom to choose what you want, only you choose what the Workers' Party has decided. It's not freedom of choice. In order to have freedom of choice, one must have something to choose from, and that is precisely the possibility of choosing from which the Workers' Party will remove. So I hope that in the future we will not hear more gross abuse of this term. In the end, it is possible to perceive that all the proposals were taken up by my colleague Karin Woldseth, so there is no need for me to address the proposals as it has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1268	The Party considers that no group shall be required to have special measures or protection. The Progress Party wishes to liquidate the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. It's quite special, because still women have significantly lower wages than men, still women are under-represented in the boardrooms, still large minority groups in the country have extremely high unemployment rates. The same is true of disabled people. What are the concerns of the representative Knudsen about the causes of these systematic differences and biases? What does he think to do with this that also for the Progress Party must be seen as something completely, completely unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1275	In terms of unemployment among minority groups, I don't think it has much to do with gender equality policy. I think it has more to do with a flawed integration policy, such as that. The working party has been central to this. When it comes to getting immigrants to work, it is very much about being able to speak Norwegian. It's at least an experience I did when I sat down with this particular job in Aetat, that's to convey immigrants to work. Norwegian employers are not racists. In the case of women in control rooms – just to take that theme in this short period of time – there is a development that is gaining momentum. Now women are dominant in most higher education institutions, and in a short time, in a few years' time, there will also be increases in government involvement. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1282	The representatives of the Progress Party write in the setting that you are ‘subject to figures from the Statistical Central Agency that there has been an increase in children’s responses to child protection measures of about 10 %. 6500 from 2003 to 2004». In addition, it is said that: ‘It will be impossible for the county to exercise good and adequate supervision of the protection of children’. In addition, the increase that the Government has introduced into the state child protection proposal is also opposed. I wonder: what is the Progress Party going to do in relation to all the children we now have on child protection measures, in addition to establishing child protection? What concrete measures will be taken, and what increases in the budget will be used for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1299	It is true that the Progress Party is somewhat pending the figures from the Statistical Central Bureau that there has been an increase in children’s responses to child protection measures of approx. 6 500 from 2003 to 2004. It should be appropriate to look at the figures at the back, whether there are the same children receiving more measures, or whether there is a real increase in the number of children in need of assistance in the field of child protection. So we want to go in and the quality-assured numbers. We don't want, like SV does, to spend a lot of money until we're sure of what is a problem, and what problems need to be solved. For the Progress Party, this issue of child protection is so important that Karin Woldseth is going to go very thoroughly into it and into our policy in the area of his intervention later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1306	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1309	The Bondevik II government conducted a targeted family policy based on the freedom of choice of the individual family. We believed in the individual family's ability to figure out for themselves how best to behave. Unfortunately, we are already seeing clear signs of a political turn against a family policy in which public governance is becoming stronger at the expense of just freedom of choice and the economy of households. This applies in general to the State budget, and is reflected in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs — Ministry of Children and Gender Equality — budget, among others. through the cut in the cash support. The cut in the cash support has previously been commented on, so I will not go into it in detail. But I have to say that it is difficult to understand how it is possible to explain itself away from the fact that this cut is a serious breach of promise to all of them – I think it is about. 80,000 families, after the reminder – parents who were reassured that the cash support would be allowed to live on. Today we're on our way into what is really a rough distribution between the families who choose kindergarten, or who see themselves served with kindergarten, and those who don't. Luckily, it is that there will gradually be fewer of those who do not have the opportunity to do so. But for those of us who come from sparsely populated areas, where the alternatives can often be quite attractive – day-time solutions in the countryside are often and are perceived as something quite different from day-time solutions in the city – it is sobering that the Centre Party is involved in the galleen of socialist partners. The fact that the Workers' Party and SV are involved in the cash support is not so surprising. It's been signaled for years. The large difference is also apparent because you choose to introduce the maximum price scheme before you have full babysitting. So you're further strengthening this. Those who have nursery facilities, those who choose kindergarten solutions, are given priority at the expense of others. Fortunately, we have had an expansive policy in the Bondevik II government in the area of kindergarten development, and we are in front of the fact that, hopefully, we will soon be in place with full kindergarten coverage. But, as I said earlier, cash support and full child care coverage are not something we experience as opposed to each other. On the contrary, things have to be followed. Only then do we have what we want to experience as a real freedom of choice. This also means that the cash support should be of a size similar to the benefits you get when choosing kindergarten. Private kindergartens have meant a great deal to the development of kindergartens in our country, both in terms of diversity and in terms of growth rates. We believe this has been a very positive contribution. It is important to continue to facilitate an active policy that stimulates private kindergarten developers. I am pleased that we could add another 300 million to our draft budget. to strengthen the non-discrimination of private and public kindergartens. Then we also have parents with special needs, vulnerable families. It is clear that it is a very important task to make sure that they also get an experience of freedom of choice. It demands that we keep some beauty products, and we have put 150 million in our draft budget. kr, which is partly a correction for cut and partly a fresh 50 mill. kr, to this group. The next big task in kindergarten policy, that is, after full expansion is a fact, must be to make sure that we work for an ever better quality in kindergarten. This is going to be a priority area for the Right in the years that are coming, and we're going to focus on it. On the right, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, with the new government, changes its name to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. From the various media performances of the Council of State, we also appear to see that this change of name appears to be a declaration of programme. Right-wing wants an active gender equality policy with clear signals and requirements. This also applies in relation to business and to the requirements for the gender distribution of corporate governance resulting from the new legislation in this area. However, with regard to the issue of penalties for those enterprises which do not comply with the requirement of gender distribution within the time limit, there is reason to stop for a moment to see where the country is actually located. We are facing the implementation of a law where our largest groups, at least theoretically, are at risk of disintegration if the women's share is not fulfilled. In the light of thought, there's probably a couple of conditions that you should take inwards here. Firstly, we have a farm culture in our country – and fortunately for that – where the company's own discipline in relation to legislation and imposition is taken very seriously. No serious enterprise in the magnitude we're talking about here will over time fail to comply with a legal requirement, no matter how little they like it. Infringement of this provision is likely to concern relatively short-term offences during a transitional period. Therefore, the very serious penalty for dissolution is not proportionate to what it is intended to do. In the light of the hearings and the reactions that have taken place elsewhere, it is obvious to the Right that maintaining this sanction signals a mistrust of the companies. It specifies an unrealistic and unrealistic penalty that is unlikely to apply, and it undermines the important trust of the authorities in the country's heaviest business. And perhaps especially when you think about the attitude and rhetoric of the parties that this government has come out of, it's probably worth stopping a little bit when it comes to working with business and the social partners -- it's based on the trust that they think is important -- it's probably worth stopping a little bit. To this end, a proposal is presented to the right asking the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for new sanctions rules. We do so in recognition that the signals we have received, the public debate that has been around this, mean that this provision, which, when it comes to the matter, may not be so decisive, should be revised in relation to the trust that should be here. As head of the Ministry of Gender Equality, the Council of State also has a special responsibility to work against discrimination in our country. So far, work on legislation on discrimination has been based on the desire to protect specific groups, i.e. discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, religion, etc. The weakness of this approach, however, is that this legislation does not necessarily take those who are actually discriminated against and that it also takes little account of changing social conditions. What is perceived as discriminatory today is not given will be perceived as discriminatory tomorrow. A natural next step in the fight against discrimination should therefore be to review legislation in this area with a view to drawing up general provisions. We will then also adapt the legislation to the international standards we find in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. These are rules that sort under several departments. But I think that the Minister for Gender Equality, as Minister for Gender Equality, and as one who has the overall responsibility for discrimination, has a special responsibility to address this issue. I hope that during this debate we will hear the opinion of the Council of State on this, and whether that is something she has actually intended to address. In the coming years, the right will focus on a policy of freedom of choice where the ability of each family to control its own everyday life is the bottom line. On this basis, we will seek a constructive debate with the majority. We've taken note of the position's signals about wanting to listen, and we can promise that there will be no shortage of recordings. With this I take up the proposal from the Right, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1354	The representative Olemic Thommess has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1359	In the last growing period, it was said – at least verbally – from the then government parties that they, among other things, were. were concerned with combating poverty. We know a lot about who is poor in Norway. We know that there are some kids who have a hard time, we know that there are people who are struggling with drug problems, and we know that there are some of them that fall outside different welfare schemes. My question to the representative Thommess is therefore: when the Right and their cooperation parties do not want to reduce the parental payment in kindergartens, why do they give almost $12 billion to beauty products for kindergartens, an item where the funds have not even been used up this year, rather than bet on combating child poverty, combating drug abuse or other measures to combat poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1366	The representative Johnsen addresses a central and extremely important question. Combating poverty is important, and will be the focus of the Right too. But we want a policy with a more targeted fight against poverty, targeting the funds directly against those who really need it, rather than taking more general action. We took several steps in the last period, not just in relation to this area, but generally in relation to the work of poverty, where this was the headline: Let the money come as directly as possible to those who need it the most. Part of the discussion we're going to have in the future, I think we'll look at the socialist parties' desire for more general action, while we'll probably focus on the most targeted solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1373	The rules on gender representation in the management boards were something the Progress Party strongly opposed. The rules came into a strange light when we also know that the government itself was unable to comply with its objectives and decisions in this area. So it's positive now that you see that the right picks up this. I assume that this is in recognition of the fact that when this law was introduced, something was done unsmart, and that therefore it must be adjusted in order not to place the companies at the expense of the burden. I assume that the Progress Party has thus understood the intentions of the proposal correctly, and we will therefore vote in favour of it. My question to the representative is, is there any other thing you did when you were in government, which you found out in the post-war light was stupid and will change?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1381	The Bondevik government did very few stupid things. It's not going to be a big problem for us to have to find out in everything – what it should be. But when that's said, I'd probably also say that stupid is the one who can't change when you see that things go wrong. Here's an example of that. The ambition was great, the ambition was there. The wish is there, and the goal is there. We share that with the Government. Yes, we want 40 pst. – minimum – women in the boards, and more. Yes, we want to use the value that they represent. But let's not do it this way when we see that the reactions are like they are, and when we see that this is a paper tiger. Let's be so liberal that we can say, "All right, this may not have been the most tricky, this doesn't necessarily serve the goals we set ourselves, let's think about them. In fact, I think that is also a good advice to the representatives of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1388	The previous government removed the infant supplement from the parents overnight. Then you put this baby supplement on the cash support. Did it increase parental freedom, and was it predictable for parents? The next question I have to the representative Thommess concerns kindergartens. The whole last period fought Right against earmarked funds for kindergartens. They would have framework transfers, so that the municipalities would take care of this themselves. Now we know that the nominal contribution for municipalities has fallen, and that municipalities spend much less money on kindergartens than they did before. This is contrary to the assumptions in the kindergarten agreement – it says a circular. Then I wonder why the Right now goes in with earmarked funds for income graded parental payment in the municipalities. This was to be done by the municipalities themselves, and this reform was overfunded.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1397	We believe that increased cash support increases the freedom of choice. In fact, we believe that you do not have a real freedom of choice, at least not those who are the worst, unless the cash support is of a size that allows you to exercise a lifestyle on the basis of it. A central point for the Right is that freedom of choice should not be reserved for those who are rich and those who have the means to make their choices independently of the cash support. We want a policy that provides a basis for freedom of choice for those who are not fully involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1402	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1405	One of the prerequisites for a good and comprehensive child and youth policy is a strong community economy. The government budget for 2006 means a growth in free income for municipalities and counties of DKK 5.4 billion. This gives municipalities a better opportunity to develop better child and youth policies and not least to meet children’s legal requirements. In order to achieve a good policy for children and young people, cross-disciplinary and transnational cooperation in municipalities and at ministerial level is necessary. Children and young people are an important resource for our society, and they should be heard. Therefore, participation and influence of children and young people are positive for social development. Voluntary organisations are key actors in facilitating a good growth for children and young people. For this government, combating poverty is very important, not least child poverty. Social isolation and exclusion from activities are an important part of the poverty picture. There are children and young people who cannot participate in social activities and participate in the social arenas that other children attend. Strengthening the efforts of children and families experiencing poverty is a priority when the Government proposes to redeploy funds in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs budget for 2006. Increase of 7.6 million. For this purpose, children’s protection, knowledge development and better coordination of services for poor families shall be channelled. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government parties announced that they would transfer responsibility for the care of lone minor asylum seekers from foreign authorities to child protection. This is necessary in order to provide these children with the legal certainty they require. Norway has been criticized by the UN for discriminating against these children. Children stay away from reception every year. Many of these children are victims of trafficking in human beings, and they need strengthened care. The budget of the kindergartens is a winner. This is a great victory for the children and their families. The government will reduce the maximum price of kindergarten to NOK 2 250 from 1 January 2006. This is absolutely necessary to know the real need for kindergartens. We know that when the price goes down, more people will want space. This shows how accurate this reform is. Every time we put the price down, there's more that will fit. The kindergarten reform is a reform of which SV is very proud. A safe and good nursery place with qualified carers and pedagogical staff is good for children. The fact that responsibility for kindergartens has been transferred to the Ministry of Knowledge means that the Government wants kindergartens to be a voluntary start to the education cycle. Kindergartens are both a good educational offer and a good care offer for children. It gives young children equal opportunities for care and professional participation. The government will work for full child care coverage, a maximum price of NOK 1750 and good quality in kindergartens. For children with a minority background, kindergartens are an important arena for integration and language development. The government has set aside 1 million. kr in order to establish an Equal pay Commission. This is an important action that SV has been working for too long. We need to identify the reasons why there are considerable pay differences between women and men, that there are considerable differences in the use of part-time, workplace organisation, pregnancy affecting wage development, status and development. We have a large pay gap between women and men in Norway, and where the proportion of women is high, wages are low. The work for lesbians and gays is proposed to be reinforced by 1.9 million. kr. This results, among other things, in: room for increased operating support to the publication Blick and to the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil Liberation. In addition to this increase, the Government will allocate money to investigate a gender-neutral marriage law. SV is very satisfied with this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1429	I have never accused SV of understanding anything in particular either from the market or from the market mechanisms. The fact that the price has now been reduced in kindergartens before a sufficient number of kindergartens have been built leads to increased pressures and longer queues. At the same time, cash support has been cut, which further increases the pressure. This is relatively elementary if you have been out of supply and demand, or read something in that area. In view of the results that will obviously be obtained, do the priorities that have been set seem to have been particularly smart?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1436	I love this question. In order to meet the needs of kindergartens in Norway — we have all said that we should have full childcare facilities in Norway — it is, of course, essential that we get the lowest price possible, as much as possible, to afford to use kindergartens. It is absolutely necessary to reduce the maximum price in order to know the real need for kindergartens in Norway. It's just in the kindergarten debate we're using this argument. It's not like that around the municipalities, and neither does the Progress Party say that because not everyone who needs it has sick place in this country, no one will get it. It's actually that you can think of two thoughts at once, and you have to do several things at the same time to get into the goal of this kindergarten reform. That's: lowering the price and expanding as best we can. The more queues there are and the more people who want kindergarten, the more accurate this reform is. That means that this government is giving the right priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1445	I want to ask SV if they in their position as a government party will work to bring forward new general rules on discrimination in our country. We were in on it in the last period. I believe that this is a matter that it is now quite important to put on the agenda. It is about our agreement to international agreements and systems, and it is about putting in place rules of discrimination that actually combat all discrimination in our country. I ask whether this is something SV supports, and whether SV will be a driver in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1452	I can answer an unconditional yes to that. I had hoped that we had now come further, but there are some samples working on this, and this SV will be the driver for this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1457	We in the Christian People's Party have been busy with life courses. We have received a good development of courses for all first-time parents, and we had a hope that such courses would become nationwide from next year. SV is a note in the budget setting about the good intentions of this parental training course. A lot of health stations are on their way. Now there are a lot of municipalities that are concerned, because this would become nationwide from next year, but the government has not increased the promise that must be made to make this offered nationwide coverage. What does SV intend to do to help ensure that this good offer can really become nationwide? Will a follow-up with money later, one will come back to this in revision, or what does the representative May Hansen think? In the budget position, as I said, all the government parties are on the note and support the intention of nationwide supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1467	In the last period, we went much further than the government parties. We wanted this life course to be an offer to all parents, regardless of whether they get their first, second or third child. You often change partners in this country now, so you can need this many times! I have, as a midwife herself, held this kind of course, and I believe it is very useful. We will now evaluate these rates, and we must not forget that we are continuing these rates at the same level as in last year's budget. We think it's useful, but we want to have a review and evaluate how it has worked until now, and then we'll look at this in the future. If you look at this year's budget, there is a deficit in relation to child protection and in many other areas that we have now had to give priority to these courses. That's also true, but we want to look at this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1476	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1479	Children and young people are our most important resource, and in this context it is to ensure good growth conditions in safe communities after the opinion of the Centre Party some of the most important things we are working on in this house. The new government has made an offensive effort on children and young people in the budget presented. The work of reaching full child-care coverage shall be continued and intensified. One increases the effort in relation to children living in poverty, and proposes a much-needed increase in child protection. The intensified fight against gender mutilation is another important grip directed at this group. The bet on children and young people is much stronger than the previous government has provided. The new government has made children and young people a winner in the next year's budget through a deliberate prioritisation of the community over new large tax havens. In the municipality of Gaul in my home state, a water in the swimming pool should now be filled again. That means that the children are retrained. This can be a thank you for the strength of the local economy that the government has provided. In other municipalities, they now have the opportunity to open youth clubs and ensure that the youth has a place to be in leisure. The sum of this is hopefully better growing conditions for children and young people in our country. That's what we in the Center Party think is particularly pleasing. I want to spend some time on the cash support. Let me make it quite clear that the sitting government has programmed to continue the cash support. The Soria Moria Declaration states that once full child care coverage has been reached, and at the earliest in 2008, cash support shall be reversed. Out of the period, a limited cash support will be retained for one- and two-year-olds. The previous government party, and especially the Christian People's Party, used a lot of the election campaign to tell us that cash support would disappear quickly if a new government came to power. But the electors were not intimidated into a new period of right - wing government. There was no reason either. It's no wonder that the Christian People's Party needs to show itself when it comes to the adjustment of the government's budget proposal. The criticism here today, however, is not in relation to the horrors the party presents in the election campaign. Of course, the adjustment of cash support rates was not a pleasant act for the Centre Party, but it was necessary to give priority to children and young people through community economics, kindergarten development, child protection and other measures that I have mentioned earlier in the article. Maybe we had dropped this grip if the previous government had left behind a little less downgraded municipal economy. The quality of life in the world is often crucial for the development of children. Hence, it is gratifying that the Government is continuing to invest in a life course. For the Central Party, it has been important to strengthen the Paper Commission, and we hope that the Government will be able to achieve its offensive objective in this area. We strongly believe in the Central Party that there is a greater need to prevent, so that the repair costs in the long term will be flattened out and reduced. Children’s and young people’s growth conditions are, therefore, not only the right priority for an important group to catch up with, but it is a particularly good investment for the future. We look forward to continuing the work in this important area over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1500	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1503	In the reply to the representative, Gjul, I was also involved in the cash support and the Government's breach of promises in this area. Then I was told that the Soria Moria Government had committed itself to maintaining the scheme, and it has not committed itself to maintaining the level. With such an interpretation of promises you can, for example: say that you maintain the scheme by providing cash support at NOK 40 per person. years – if you want to draw it far. My question to the representative of the Central Party is: What level of cash support will the Central Party say no to and do not accept before leaving the Government? How far down can the Workers' Party and SV turn the cash support – e.g. For $40 a month?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1510	It is not a matter of priority for the Centre Party to reduce additional cash support rates. In this budget, we have chosen to give priority to a number of other areas that are important for children and young people. It's the local economy. To reach all children and young people, it is very important that we have a municipal economy that allows municipalities to solve the tasks they are charged with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1517	I have to say that the representative from the Central Party is surprised when we hear here that the cash support is not a priority task. So here you have made a choice and promised that the cash support will be continued. You have to be a little bit of a scribe to realize that it means that it's just about the arrangement, and that you can cut it so it cancels. And then you come here and you say there's no priority problem. In addition to the representative Knudsen's question, I really have to say, is it so that the centre party has given up the cash support? Will the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, which are in pursuit of this system, be given free leeway in the years to come? Or is there a limit here for what you want to accept?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1522	I am sorry, but I must have said very wrong. What I meant to say, it wasn't a priority task to reduce the extra bets. I thought that's what I said – at least that's the answer. We in the Center Party will work to prevent new cuts in cash. We're for cash support. Of course, we're going to keep doing that. So I guess the representative Thommes knows that it's common to adjust bets. I'd think that right, like e.g. Talks well about unemployment benefits and similar schemes, but has chosen to assess them in the previous budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1531	The centre party has said that they will give priority to children and young people, and then they have reduced cash support. The Soria Moria Declaration states that there should be a limited amount of cash support. The Christian People's Party was very happy when there was a signal from the negotiations that the cash support was afraid. I felt that now she should not be changed until we have received full child care coverage. But when several parties talk about that as a principle, the principle means very little if it isn't filled with content. Does this mean that next year’s budget will be able to propose a cash subsidy of NOK 1000 — when one is busy with children and young people? Cash support may mean most to those who have the least. When it comes to creating peace and stability, and when you're talking about adjusting the rates, it's not usually to adjust the rates in a system that's been incorporated and that people expect to have as supplements. They should also be adjusted, if appropriate. So my question to the representative Erling Sande is, how is the Center Party supposed to create security for all young children's parents? What do they have to do for years to come? What can they expect from cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1541	Let me repeat that it is important for the Centre Party to work to prevent new cuts in cash. But that's also the way, for those who think a little bit back, that the Christian People's Party has cut off the stakes in the cash support scheme. I think it was in 1999, and Molvær Grimstad will correct me if I am wrong. This is the collective budgetary image. In this budget, we have chosen to prioritise children and young people through child protection, through a strengthened local economy, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1547	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1550	The left was at the nursery meeting. The left has always been to give kindergartens to everyone, and then to have kindergartens adapted and able to give the children what they need. I believe that, in relation to what seems to be the government's policy for the future, one needs first and foremost a vigilance when it comes to quality at work. It's a little weird, like the government has now done. We in the Left are skeptical about combining school and kindergarten. We've always said that if there were two departments we were going to merge, and one was education, then culture would be logical like the other, because it's about creation. But then we see that kindergartens are combined with school, and we're worried about the quality of kindergartens, whether you want to focus primarily on price, or if you angle it against good quality kindergartens. We are pleased that the old government parties have found a priority where you say that you should probably spend more money on getting a more income-rated price, because what we see now is that in cities like Oslo it is more expensive for the poorest to have children in kindergarten and cheaper for the richest. The second point we've been dealing with is children with behavioral problems. The research has now given us some diagnostics related to behavior. If we had them when the ancient geniuses went to school, enough of these would have been added to those diagnostics. The challenge now is that we get so much knowledge of the different diagnostics that we can actually use them to facilitate life even for today's geniuses that might get these diagnostics, so that they don't get a simple diagnosis that stamps those outside, but that through research and knowledge you get the clean way out of these diagnostics can help make life easier for many children. The government has made use of the means to investigate a so-called gender-neutral marriage law – very strange words, but that's fine. The left has submitted a note on what we expect from the investigation. I would be very pleased if the Council of State could say something in its statement about the comments that will be included in the investigation to be made. Since the Minister for the Child is also an equal opportunities minister, I choose to raise another question that concerns us who are not defined as a family. The previous government spent a lot of energy starting work on a single message, and I'll be very happy if the council from this pulpit can confirm that that work is going to continue. There is in the notes a discussion about the bullying or not the bullying of the Children’s Ombudsman. The left is skeptical of an ombudsman's arrangement that is going on, but believes that the child's representative is right, because a child does not have the right to vote. For adults, we elected representatives. I think it is important that the Children's Ombudsman strives for independence from parties and ideologies, and that is what I think our former children's representatives have done well. And I think it's a little unnecessary conflict to think that if you can't put the children's ombudsman's opinions in the debate, you're going to fuck up the children's ombudsman. The child ombudsman is primarily an ombudsman for all the children of the country, regardless of ideologies and party-political opinions, and should not be a political actor. Finally, I would like to make some comments on quotaing. The left hand side was the first batch to put into use the allowance. We were the first to adopt it, and we have had it ever since Eva Kolstad was the party leader. I think that quotaing is the right tool to use in all situations where quotaing cannot increase prejudices between groups. And the relationship between men and women is so close in our culture that I believe the prejudices between those groups do not increase in quota use. I think it is a good tool, and we in the Left are at least doing well with a group that is fifty-fifty. We've placed ladies in many areas where the other parties have mostly placed men.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1567	It's going to be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1570	The representative Skei Grande said that the Children’s Ombudsman has an important role in society as a spokesman for children’s rights. The entire Committee agrees that the Children’s Ombudsman should be able to conduct a bramless and direct speech. Then it is a little strange that the opposition in the committee position presents the free role of the children’s ombudsman while pointing out the importance of the Ombudsman ‘not being perceived as a participant in ideological and party political debate’. In view of the fact that this issue arose from time to time in the Bondevik II government, the question goes to Left's Skei Grande: Where does the Children's Ombudsman's engagement go? What should happen if the child ombudsman makes a comment that can sort under the concept of political, and is incidentally in line with the position of one or more political parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1580	If an agent is unable to distinguish between what is a political reasoning and what is a party political reasoning, he should not be an agent. I want political representatives. I have worked in party-political neutral organizations that have pursued a lot of politics, but in their form of communication have striven not to be assigned one party vision or one political ideology. That's what I think any agent should do. That's what I think a lot of representatives have done in the past, and I think there's a lot of representatives in the other areas as well. But it's a warning that you should stay away from being viewed as a party political actor in a game. Here you have to take care of all children, no matter what background the children have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1587	The conflict around the child ombudsman started in the last period, when the ombudsmen were actually called up on the carpet because they were political. It's asking who's assessing what's partisan politics, and what's not. If the ombudsmen are not to have a political role, it will be quite difficult. I wonder if the Left's representative can say anything about it. So I'll take question number. two, which I put to the representative Olemic Thommess, and which he did not respond to. It is true that municipalities do not use the same in kindergartens in a nominal way as before. There are several studies showing that the kindergarten reform is overfunded. So the left in the setting says they want to increase entry 65 by 50 million. kr earmarked income graded parental allowance for families with low income. The municipalities have received money for this. In the previous period, the Left would place the entire nursery transfer in the frame. What is it that makes the left ear mark these means? This is the responsibility of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1596	In fact, I distinguish between being a party politician and being a politician. I believe it is important to be political – we are all political people – but that is not all the roles in which we should be party politicians. So now I get an opportunity, because I have 46 seconds, to present the following: In Oslo in ‘old days’ it was like having less than 150,000 kroner in income, then a 730 kroner paid for his child in kindergarten. Served over 655000 kroner, paid a NOK 3 700 for having a child in kindergarten. Introducing 1500 kroner for everyone means that single mother with 150 000 kroner of income actually doubles her child's garden expenses, while a family with 655000 kroner of income at the top of the Holmenkol lock gets to travel on two additional South trips. Introducing this kindergarten reform in Oslo costs almost $1 billion. The introduction of new income upgrading costs approx. 200 million. kr. The 200 million. The municipality must then take off its post, which they could have used for other things. That's what's distracting us, and that's what I think is fundamentally unfair in that way of thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1603	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1606	Equality is an important area for the new government. One of the major challenges facing us is that women still serve less than men. The government has therefore set aside 1 million. in 2006 for an equal pay commission. However, we do not want to achieve full equality until men take more responsibility at home, and until we have a babysitting system that allows both men and women to combine working life and care for their own children. The government is therefore considering presenting a separate report on gender mainstreaming and gender equality. I want to say that I fully agree with the representative Knudsen that the family is an essential pillar of our society. That's why it's important for this government that everyone, no matter what form of life, is included in the family concept. I also received a challenge from the representative of Trine Skei Grande about the work for solitude. It is quite obvious that when we think about family, we also think lonely, and I can assure the representative that this government will continue to work on the problems of the same. What form it will be presented to Stortinget, we have to come back to, but at least I can promise that the department is working on this question. For this government, homopolitics are important, and we are very pleased that we in this budget can finally follow up on the measures that include: was located in St.meld. No 25 for 2000–2001, the so-called gay message. We also increase support for LLH, for anti-discrimination work and for Blikk. The representative Thommess presented the challenge of modern anti-discrimination legislation that captures societal changes. I believe it goes without saying that every government in every area has to strive to have a modern law that captures the needs of society. Then, of course, we will be very responsive to the recordings that the Stortinge gives in relation to this, and hope that we can get a good process in the time that comes. Child protection has been through a major and important reform. The quality of institutional services has been increased and foster home services have been extended and partly decentralised. Work on community-based interventions has been prioritised. During the autumn of 2005 and next spring, five new behavioural institutions are opened for children aged 14 to 18 with serious behavioural problems. In view of the growth in the number of clients and the costs associated with the conversion and necessary quality of the service, it has been necessary to increase the appropriations for the protection of children by the State. The government wants to improve the conditions for single minor asylum seekers who come to our country and transfer responsibility to child protection. Lone minors are a vulnerable group of children and young people. They're alone, without parents, and they're asking for asylum. They need our protection, care, security and close follow-up. The Ministry has started an investigation into the issue of the transfer of care responsibilities from the non-resident authorities to the protection of children, and we will come back with a detailed statement on the matter in the revised national budget. The cohabitation measures we know there's an exposure to here in the hall. There is no doubt that they can contribute to the reduction of life conflicts. But we don't have to look at this blindly and think that only we're going to grant an x of millions of dollars for different types of measures, we've solved the problems. In this way, I would like to say to the Progress Party and to the Knudsen that what will be important for this government is to look critically at the use of the money in this field. We're continuing appropriations for next year. We believe that the problems of living are important, but our starting point is that we're willing to turn some rocks, maybe we have new research and new methods that make us do things a little bit differently in the future. But it's going to be presented in a proper way when we're done with that work. Finally, the time goes by quickly: I also received a challenge from the representative from the Right in relation to proposal No. 23, which is about quotas and penalties. I would like to say that what this government has done in a very short time is to take a little seriously the envelope that has been made, among other things. from the right in this case, considering that we are looking at the possibility of imposing fines on a specific basis. But what's important now, and for which I really expected an engagement from the Right, is that one stands upright on the importance that one has actually received a historic decision through in the Storting with the help of the Right in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1632	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1635	I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State does not get through all of its fields in a relatively short time, and that is why I want to ask questions about the reform of contributions. The previous government announced that there would be an evaluation in the harvest of the new contribution reform and of the various consequences, positive but also negative, it has received. I would therefore like to hear from the Council of State whether she has a time perspective when we receive an evaluation of the contribution reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1641	I would like to thank you for that very question, because it is a matter for which there is a very great commitment, and it has been since the Grand Duchy adopted the reform. I was the Council of State that put forward the rules on contributions, and I said at the time that it would be important that we evaluate and look closely at the experience. We have a lot of pressure on this matter in the department, but at the same time I have said that the government will give itself time to go into it carefully, so that we get to put forward a proposal that is well worked out. At this point we also hope to have a good dialogue, among other things. with the Progress Party, which has had a strong commitment for many years. I can at least promise that our starting point is for men and women to be treated equally in our contribution system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1646	I thank the Council of State for its positive feedback on issues of discrimination, and I interpret it to her that this also applies to the general approach in the legislation. But to equality and to the governments: Yes, we are upright, yes, we are upright in our desire to do so, but does the Council of State see the day when she or one of her colleagues is actually going to break up a big business? It's not really an alternative. Substantial societal considerations are going to appear every single time, if it ever happens. Then it is not worth it that you run a race so striped that you are perceived as being quite extreme. If there is some gender equality work that has suffered over the years, it is ridicule. What we're on our way into now is inviting ridicule. It invites ridicule in those rooms and in those forums where it's important that it's not just to be ridiculed, but really taken seriously. It doesn't serve this solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1651	I think we could have had our own debate today on this very topic. But I want to tell the representative that it is clear that there is criticism. That there are counterpowers, we have traditionally always seen when we talk about equality and women's place in society. What I have repeatedly praised for many years, and which has been quite invaluable in getting this matter through in the Storting, is that the Right agreed to present this law, also with sanctions provisions that dealt with forced resolution. That's why it's going to be directly alarming. I have studied the legal work, the assessments and the hearing opinions carefully, and I believe that the government of Bondevik and Ansgar Gabrielsen had a lot of reason to come along. But we're making some changes that make there might be some flexibility in the system. I hope that the proposal will be sent, because the Minister of Justice will start work on going through the instruments of sanctions in terms of the use of fines. I hope that the Government will be able to complete that work, and that we will present a matter for the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1658	The Minister for Children and Gender Equality has been seen to manage cash support, which has been debated today. I see that there are slightly different interests in the Government when this is the case. One argues that it is important to give priority to financial measures other than cash support. One has found a lot of financial supplements for different purposes, but has a lot of cuts of 273 million. NOK in cash support. It does little to help – as I have said before – that a good thing is to save a principle, if at the same time it is not a good thing to send some signals to young children's parents about how much they intend to reduce cash support. Will the Council of State guarantee that the cash support in the proposal for next year's budget will be kept at at least the same level until a full babysitting is provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1663	Actually, it would have been enough to refer to the representative from the Central Party's answer to that question today. It is clear that we are not going in and saying anything about the budget we have now started working on. But it has been important for the Government to make some changes in the course that the previous government had in this field. So we're talking about an amount of a little over $300 a month. That's why I'm a little surprised by the crazy commitment we're experiencing from the Christian People's Party now, when we know that they actually cut the baby supplement, when we know that the SFO price has increased, when we know that our municipalities have poor framework conditions for children, and when we also know that there are a lot of kids who don't get the help they should have at school because the school has been down-prioritized. Here it should be freedom of choice if the previous government had used the power it has had for many years, to raise these issues. We are therefore very upright in relation to the marginal cut we have made in the cash support. The scheme is attached to the construction of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1672	I have a question to the Council of State that I also asked in my post, and as I, as she had it a little busy, will give her the chance to respond to now in the line exchange. It goes on the investigation of the so-called gender-neutral marriage law. Can the Council of State say anything about progress? And have you decided on the model already now? Or in the investigation, can you be open to what models to go for?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1677	The government has started work, but I can't be clear from the time perspective. There are many ways to put up such a big and extensive work. We have to have it for treatment in a proper way first. But I want to say that we've noticed the recordings that the left has in this field. The Ministry has already started work on the evaluation of the proposals made by the Left, and they will be involved in a careful assessment of the conclusions reached by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1682	Both in the statements of the Council of State and in previous contributions from the Workers' Party today, we have heard that men should take more responsibility at home. I want to ask you why we, as politicians, are going to interfere in how men and women divide the problems between themselves within the four walls of the house. Besides, there are more and more men in our society washing clothes, washing houses, ironing, cooking, looking after children, etc. On the part of the Progress Party, we believe that it must be up to each couple to decide for themselves how to divide the tasks between them. One place must the limit of the private sphere go, and I will ask the Council of State question: Where does she think the limit of the private sphere should go? Does she imagine any concrete legislative proposals to regulate the work within the four walls of the house? Otherwise, I register that today it is impossible to get a clear answer to what you want to do with the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1691	I think everyone in this room many times thinks that as politicians we shouldn't care about many things that the individual should have handled himself, but that's not the way it is. Democracy needs frameworks, laws, rules and guidelines in relation to how to address difficult situations between people. I believe that of course there are things that it is absolutely impossible to go in and regulate by law, and we should not get there either. But I must say to the representative Knudsen that it is absolutely impossible for me to give a fascist response to where the limit goes for the private sphere. What's important is that we add up to a society where both men and women have equal opportunities. There were also many years ago who thought that establishing kindergartens was something that the individual, mother and father, should take care of themselves. Today, the Progress Party is an important adherent of kindergartens, and that means that society is moving forward, and that we are all changing gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1700	An important part of the work we do on Stortingen is to try to make children and young people's everyday lives and grow up a little bit easier. One way to do this is to always have the United Nations Children's Convention on the desk next to it, regardless of whether it's a budget, a legislative change or a message we're dealing with. Remember, as political representatives, the main content of the Children's Convention, I think we have already done a good job. The Progress Party has fought on many occasions for better child protection. Not least, John I. Alvheim was a champion of child protection children and their relatives. Many turn to us big-time representatives with their stories about child protection. We believe that the innumerable cases we hear testify that there is not enough child protection in Norway. First, too many children stay in homes where their parents rush. This should be a simple matter for the public to intervene in. No child, absolutely no child, should grow up in heavy drug users, which unfortunately happens today. Secondly, the protection of children should take into account the comments made by the previous committee in relation to the notification of child and young people's growth, namely that close family members should be assessed only when children are to be placed away from home. Too many times, however, I have received telephones from desperate grandparents, aunts and uncles saying that they have their applications to take over the care of children with whom they are related. Reasons are rare, but you can imagine that it has something to do with their having too good contact with their biological parents. Yes, and that is exactly why we wanted the children to come to their grandparents. It had not become such a traumatic experience as it is to move to total strangers, or possibly to institutions. Then we're at the next topic, the purchase of external institutional space. We see that in the ejaculation you have to increase this post once again, this time by 215 million. kr. For the next year, the Government proposes once again to increase this item, or the previous item 70 under the same chapter, despite the fact that extensive conversion work has been undertaken to reduce the cost growth of the sector. It is worrying when the state assumes responsibility in January 2004, and two years later it can still be written in St.prp. No 21 for 2005-2006: ‘However, it has been shown, after one has now been given more information on actual cost developments in 2005, that ensuring a good professional activity was more necessary than previously foreseen, while at the same time shifting has not had as much savings in 2005 as one assumed.’ What are you really trying to say here? The 2005 budget increased by 300 million. In the revised summer of 2005, an increase of approx. One hundred million. kr and thus in the new age 215 new millions. Then it's actually timely to ask, what's going on with public child protection? Are there no critical reviews of what these budgets are drawing up, when full awareness was given to the activities in 2004 to gain better control? I think it is relevant to ask, especially when you are contacted by foster children who are in foster homes with both four, five and six other foster children: do you have control of the business? Does it have official control over what happens to thousands of children who are being removed from their biological family every year? I don't think the government has control. And that bothers me. In fact, I do not demand that the child protection in each municipality should be able to have an overview and an insight into whether all the children you have placed around are doing well. They probably have more than enough to do with getting away from all the concerns they get and all the acute issues they get caught daily. Because I'm not saying I want to criticize the child protection workers as such. It's the existing system I want to live on. Child protection workers do a great job for very many children in this country, but that is not satisfactory. This is what the Progress Party wants to do. It is not to suspect the public Norwegian child protection, nor to throw down on the county councillors, but to take care of the children and to ensure that those children who have a slightly worse prerequisite than others are raised in a safe and healthy environment. That is why we are proposing free and independent child protection. We know that the supervision of child protection, the county councils, the child protection institutions, nursing homes, foster homes, etc. not being sufficiently implemented today. It may not be necessary to wait until the Riksrevision examines the supervision, or the media reveal a scandal, until we put in place a better supervision. Let's raise supervision and get free and independent child protection. Maybe the Council of State thinks this seems a little scary, but that's not it. There is a place where the children can contact, the relatives can contact them, and not least both professionals and caregivers can contact them when they feel that something is not right in the public child protection system, so that the guard can take care of the case in an unwarranted way and investigate it. This is how we would have thought, and everything just to ensure a good and safe growth for all children in Norway. Then it's that I take a look at my desk and see that I have both Articles 9, 18 and 20 of the United Nations Children's Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1722	This government has put the fight against poverty high on the priority list. It has often been said that poverty has many faces and that the problem of poverty is so complex that it does not benefit from simple explanations about causality or solutions. But we know that poverty often has bad companions, such as addiction, mental problems, unemployment and social isolation. And then we know that those children who don't get care and support from parents or other close adults are the ones who strongly advocate the most desperate face of poverty. It's these kids we now have to take a thank-you for. The government will address the fight against poverty by strengthening child protection. The need for child protection work and efforts has increased in recent years. The number of children under the care of child protection has increased significantly. It could either mean that there are more children in need of assistance and help, or that, in cooperation with other institutions, child protection has the power to reach several of the children in need of child protection. The figures for the government child protection in the third quarter of this year show the need for additional funds for the next year. It is important that the Government assess all aspects of this additional consumption by, among other things. to look at the significant number of commercial private institutions for the placement of children, which currently account for approximately 50 % of the total number of private institutions. 45 pst. of the total institutional positions on a national basis. The government has proposed an increase of 7.6 million. kr for the next year's budget to be directly committed to the fight against child poverty through the protection of children. In the last few years, there has been work on local and regional measures aimed at developing good models of child protection work on monitoring and coordination of services aimed at poor children and families. Several regional conferences have been held in cooperation with the regional offices of the Children’s, Youth and Family Budget, focusing in particular on regional challenges, prevention and cross-sectoral cooperation. More than 20 municipalities have participated in this work, with guidance and follow-up to key research environments. The experience with this work is good and the Government now wants to continue this effort on a larger scale. The municipalities that have participated will receive increased funding and several municipalities will now participate in the work. Local and regional measures need to be seen in the context of the work on poverty in metropolitan areas. The budget for urban action against poverty is 21.5 million. kr for 2006. It is important that this work is systematically followed up by raising the level of knowledge and competence of employees at all levels of child protection. It is also important that the authorisation and supervision responsibilities of the child protection measures, which are entrusted to the county office, are followed up in a qualitatively good manner. The work of child protection depends on an overall and systematic effort. During January/February 2006, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health and the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs will draw up a separate plan for the implementation of measures to enhance child protection competences at national level, in the form of knowledge dissemination and national and regional conferences. In particular, it will be important to increase knowledge of multicultural families and their situation at national, regional and local level. Both the Soria Moria Declaration and the Government's additional proposal now outline an important initiative. Responsibilities of lone minor asylum seekers shall be transferred from the foreign authorities to the protection of children. The stories of children who have disappeared without a trace from Norwegian asylum recipients and may have been kidnapped and trafficking in human beings have made a strong impression on most of us. Minors and single asylum seekers, many with traumatic experiences behind them, must have the same follow-up and protection as other ethnic Norwegian children. They need child protection more than anyone else. The protection of children in North Norway, like health companies, universities and cultural institutions, has for a long time been in broad contact with North-West Russia. The children’s, youth and family status of Region Nord can refer to a five-year very successful cooperation with public child protection authorities in Karelen. This is an important part of the inter-peopleal cooperation in the north to which the Government has committed. Karelia has major challenges in many areas of society, not least in health and well-being. It is therefore gratifying that the Government has aimed at strengthening and continuing this important interpersonal cooperation in the field of child protection. The fight against poverty has many facets. When children are involved, it touches many strings in most of us. It is a human right to have a safe and caring childhood. It's important for the individual human being and for society. Children who lack care and who are deprived often enter the vicious spiral of lack of schooling, intoxication and crime. Preventive measures are important, including: in the form of good welfare services that reach all: reasonable kindergartens, good schools and school leisure schemes, and sports and cultural services in which all children, regardless of background, can participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1742	The government's objectives in kindergarten policy are full child care coverage, high quality and low price. The budgetary proposal submitted by the Government to the kindergarten sector is a right and important priority in order to achieve the objectives set by the Government for this sector. As several speakers from the position have said, the nursery sector was one of the budget winners who received a significant increase in their budget in the proposal submitted by the Government. It was probably the individual sector that got the best out of it, with a very ambitious bet. The government's bet on kindergartens was raised in the Soria Moria statement, and in some areas, explicit targets were set. One was linked to reduced parental pay. Lower parental pay is essential for the family’s economy to determine whether or not children can go to kindergarten. In the 2006 draft budget, the Government therefore proposes to reduce the maximum price to NOK 2250 per year. months and 24 750 kroner per month year from 1 January 2006. The Bondevik II Government proposed in its budget to increase the maximum price to NOK 2830 per year. months. The proposal of the new government therefore reduces the parental payment by a total of NOK 6 380 per year. in relation to the draft budget submitted by the previous Government. The reduced parental benefit is financed by an increase in the State operating grant. This gives predictability to kindergarten owners, both in relation to the level of compensation and, for private owners, in relation to the timing of payment from the municipality. In addition, unlike the previous government, the government has invested funds at full price adjustment of the State operating grant rates from 2005 to 2006. Reduced price, of course, is not enough. We also have to make sure that anyone who wants it can fit in a kindergarten. The former government provided funds for the creation of 7,600 new full-time posts in 2006. The municipality's reporting on the number of waiting lists in the autumn of 2005 shows that the demand for kindergarten places is much higher than that foreseen by the previous government's draft budget. The government’s proposal for a reduced maximum price will also help to further increase demand. Therefore, a significantly higher number of kindergartens will be required in 2006 than previously foreseen. Therefore, on the basis of experience gained in 2004 and 2005, a capacity increase of 11 000 full-time seats was assumed in the 2006 budget. We have to assume that part of the capacity growth will continue to increase the residence time of those who are already in kindergarten. This is due to the fact that almost 70000 of a total of 215 000 kindergarten children do not have full-time space, many of whom are likely to wish to increase residence time by reducing the maximum price. About 73 pst. Today, children have a kindergarten offer. This implies that there is still room for significant growth in demand at a reduced price, and we have to assume that this will happen. ECON Analysis, commissioned by the Municipal Councils Central Association, has examined how the demand for nursery places will develop when the price is reduced to NOK 2 250 per year. month(s) If this survey gives a correct picture, it means that the demand for space in kindergarten in 2006 will be much higher than that so far foreseen. The government's goal is that all children who want to do so will be offered children's playgrounds. The 2006 budget includes funds based on one per cent. the realistic dimensioning of capacity growth today. I would like to stress that it is the responsibility of municipalities to facilitate full child care coverage. If private developers do not expand, it is the responsibility of the municipality itself to do so. When the price is now lowered, demand could increase in municipalities with full coverage at today's maximum price. I therefore believe that the reduced maximum price could give a positive pressure on the development of these municipalities. Nevertheless, full childcare by the end of 2007 is a formidable challenge, and the reduced maximum price does not reduce the challenge. We have high ambitions, but I believe that we're going to be able to do it. We would like, among other things: identify the factors that may hamper the development of municipalities, and if necessary I will come back with measures to stimulate further development. We have a formidable task in front of us in the next few years to make sure that all parents who want kindergarten space for their children get it. Our government has set this as one of its top priority tasks, and it will be a real pleasure in cooperation with the Storting to succeed with these ambitious goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1768	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1771	I wish the Council of State luck on the road to full child care coverage and full freedom of choice for all parents. But that's not what I took the floor for. Fortunately, we can read in the Evening Post today that the Council of State has not canceled Christmas in kindergarten as long as it does not have a religious averaging. But as the councils are also familiar with, we adopted in our new kindergarten law a Christian purpose paragraph. Then it becomes very close to us in the Progress Party to ask the Council of State: When has the Council of State planned to remove the Christian purpose paragraph in the kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1778	Of course, kindergartens and schools should learn about the cultural heritage we're part of. And Christmas is an infinitely important occasion for both kindergartens and schools to think through both our cultural heritage and not least the religious aspect of Christmas and Advent time as such. Of course, children should participate in and learn about this. It's an important part of the cultural heritage that we have as a nation. In the law that we are set to administer, it is very clear that you should not preach, in the sense that you should have the opportunity to exempt the children who do not share the dominant church. This is also how it is practised in most kindergartens and in most schools. This is handled wisely and sensibly locally. This is also how our government wants it to be handled – wisely and sensibly locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1785	I'll follow up the previous line a little bit. A true knowledge minister shows respect for those who are well-advised. Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal has been storming around a lot after he became the Council of State and made various plays. Some of it is attached to those who have chosen different from what the new government might have thought desirable. Infant parents who voluntarily choose care solutions other than kindergarten for one- and two-year-olds have felt less respectful. Elevar and parents who want the Christian cultural heritage to be seen in school and kindergarten have felt ignored in the debate that has ours. Today, a strong negative signal has been sent to all those who want an alternative school for their children. Does the Minister of Knowledge agree that care for own children is of great value, even if it does not indicate gross domestic product, and will the Government take seriously the signals sent by a consensual committee to the Government that it is important to pursue a family policy that is tailored to the wishes and needs of the family?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1792	Of course, I agree with the heart. One of the great joys of life – with responsibility and duty – is raising children. And being with children and family is one of the most important qualities in our society. But family is gradually a complex concept. Families are as diverse as the society we're part of, and that's also good. That means that our government, and not least I, underlines this responsibility very clearly, and of course I am very pleased that this responsibility is part of our society. It also means that we will, of course, respect it in the institutions for which the public is responsible, but at the same time the law is also such as to understand that it should not be preached. It is an important premise on the basis of which all governments have been governing the law since 1969, and so should this law continue to be governed. That means that knowledge is infinitely important also about different kinds of faith that might exist. That's how this is understood. And the family that the arena is the most important arena associated with many of these relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1799	In the extension of the question to the representative Woldseth: I do not think the representative Woldseth got any clear answer from the Council of State, whether it might be appropriate to remove the Christian purpose paragraph in kindergarten, perhaps when the Council of State plans to do so. We record that the Council of State believes that it is doing a lot of good and sensible locally, but then there are also questions about why – if it is done very wisely and sensibly locally – we still have these reports from the Council of State about dechristening Norway: no to prayer, Christmas can be marked as long as there is not too much religious content, etc. It seems that you don't quite know which profile to have on this, whether it's allowed at all to have a Christian content in our kindergartens and schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1806	The government will review the purpose paragraph in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools. We will come back to that after a comprehensive process. It should be an inclusive process, with everyone in Norwegian society. This will be a good debate on the value anchoring we are going to have. Such a debate will, of course, address the cultural heritage of which we are part, and the multicultural nature of Norwegian society. The starting point is that Norwegian society is changing. I welcome this debate with great interest. I believe that in Norwegian society, regardless of what position you might have on matters of faith, a debate on this is good and wise. It's a debate we'll come back to, and we invite the Norwegian community to join in. Of course, kindergartens, schools and other actors should be part of this debate. Finally, the Stortinge will get this back when one has concluded in one way during the debate. I imagine a broad, inclusive and consensus-oriented approach to this, so that everyone will see that it will be good for the school, for kindergartens and the Norwegian community to review such a debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1813	Now we're getting closer to an answer with some degree of content. I assume that the Department of Knowledge does not have unlimited resources, and that such an investigation and debate are not initiated without a plan and a thought. It is relatively obvious that one does not investigate such a question if one does not wish that the conclusion is to remove Christian purpose paragraphs. Can the Council of State confirm that it is his desire to conclude that the Christian purpose paragraphs should be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1820	As I said in my previous reply to the representative Knudsen, the school, kindergartens and our society have once and for all the good of having a debate on the anchoring of values in our society. This debate has been opened up by the Government. We want to invite many people with different positions, different beliefs and different approaches to a debate on value anchoring. For example, when it comes to many important value issues today, the UN has a role that is quite different from what it was just a few decades ago. The UN and the Council of Europe Conventions on Human Rights are increasingly part of this debate to which we wish to invite. The government will have a broad approach to this. I welcome the contribution of the representative Knudsen and others in a debate on the value anchoring we want for the school. It is initially a debate that should have an open, inclusive and consensus-oriented approach. I can assure the representative Knudsen that in such a selection there will be many prominent representatives from Norwegian church life, who will certainly care for what I perceive is the main issue of Knudsen in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1829	What I understand is that the minister of knowledge really has contributed to this debate, when he says that a debate on anchoring values is good, is creating security around a lot of what has to do with our Christian cultural heritage: are we allowed to sing before the food? How many times can we sing the Christmas seasons before they are seen as preaching? And so on. What I feel is that this government has contributed to so far is creating insecurity around what has to do with a Christian anchoring of values. That's what I thought was very unfortunate. So finally about this with kindergartens, which the Council of State was in on. There's a big job ahead of us. Many have been done in kindergarten. DKr 13.5 billion had the previous government set aside for kindergarten purposes. We know that there's one piece left before anyone who wants kindergarten gets it. But doesn't the Council of State think that lowering the maximum price now will take much longer – that more people who have short-term space will have full-time space because it costs less to have flexibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1837	Experience has shown that 1.4 places have to be built to get one new child into the nursery. The reason for this is that many people who have short-term or half-day space would like full-time space when they are made available. That means that, in order to achieve the ambitious goals we have set, we need to build more places all the time. Now when we lower the price, it makes what has been an invisible queue visible. There are a lot of parents who want space for their children when it's possible and the price is affordable. We have always assumed that when the price goes down, it will make a need that was previously not visible. It will put an extra and greater responsibility on government and magnification. We have great ambitions in this field. Over the next two years, we're going to build a lot of kindergartens in our society. In the Ministry of Knowledge, we do what we can to facilitate it. But it is the municipality that has the primary responsibility to facilitate the existence of kindergartens in the municipality. We will help the municipalities, together with private developers, to ensure that there is an offer for all those who would like a nursery place for their child. But again, it's a voluntary offer. However, municipalities must provide the opportunity for those wishing to do so to have a kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13.ana.ud1051e1846	The cord shift is over. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is also late. Evening meeting is set at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
