ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e26	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e29	I wish, on behalf of the big business representatives Øyvind Korsberg, Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien and myself, to propose a comprehensive plan for the construction of wind power plants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e49	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: – Councillor Kristin Halvorsen – State Council Odd Roger Enoksen – State Council Sylvia Brustad, The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. The President will draw attention to the fact that someone has aired the idea of state councils and the questioners should switch places. The President is prepared to discuss this further with the parliamentary leaders, especially the opposition parties, who are the main players in a Question Time, and come back to this for the next Question Time. That is why Stortinget continues with the last practice, with the questioners standing in front of the president's seat and the councils of state at the second pulpit. Then the Stortinget will come back later to see if an exchange is to be made, as someone has mentioned. Then we are ready to begin with the first main question, from the representative Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e66	I want to address a question to our Minister of Finance. There's a lot you could take up in these state budgets, but a lot of this we'll probably come back to when we're going to have the finance debate in this room on 24th this month. I would like to address questions related to the taxation of rental allowances for seafarers and the free-of-charge of employees on the base. This was a matter that brought much media attention to the period from the 2005 national budget to the revised budget in June last year. NOPEF, who organizes our pedestal workers, has had very clear speech all along. The same clear speech has also been given by the government parties today in relation to this tax consolidation. The party of progress is opposed to this tightening up, and we were pleased that we were able to reverse the previous government in the revised budget, so that this tightening did not come. The question to the Minister of Finance is as follows: What has changed so that the Government now thinks this is a sensible tax tightening? What is the government's reason that what was wrong six months ago is now a good policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e77	I would like to thank the representative of the Progress Party for this question. It is the overall proposal for additionalproposal, i.e. the changes made by the red-green government in relation to the 2006 government budget, that have not allowed the reintroduction of tax exemptions for the cost of employees on the base and the rent supplement. It is true, as the representative of the Progress Party says, that this was first removed in a budgetary settlement between the former government of Bondevik and the Progress Party, and which was then re-established in the revised national budget, which all the parties were behind, but for which we have not found room in this round. This means that employees on the base are now treated in the same way as others who are paid food by their employers. In isolation, it means a tax tightening of NOK 3500 for these. But because many of those working in the North Sea will also be relieved by marginal tax, it will still be on average for oil workers that they will benefit from the tax changes that this budget entails. As far as the rent supplement is concerned, there is an addition to the seafarer that you get tax-free because you eat at home. It is true that we have proposed that the tax consolidation initially provided by the Bondevik II Government for 2005 be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e88	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There are probably some people who can argue for these tax aggressors, but before that, the Progress Party and the representatives of SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have not been in favour of that kind of argument. NOPEF has called for a political strike tomorrow on what is now proposed by the Government. On the presentation of the State budget in this Chamber on the 10th of this month, the Council of State said: ‘This is a budget which is essentially going to go through as proposed.’ Does this mean that such markings will have no effect on the views of the Council of State and on the consideration of the proposal of the State budget by the current government parties, and that such markings are now just coming but not being listened to?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e102	As the representative of Leirstein is involved, this government will initially have a majority in Stortinget. This means that the budget – of course – has been discussed with our groups in the Great Britain before it is presented here. But now the government has submitted this budget to the Storting, and I'm going to be very careful to go into what kind of treatment the Storting should have of this. I understand the disappointment of the oil workers and the seafarers about this, but it is a whole budget that has made this not a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e107	There will be one follow-up question – Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e110	NOPEF and a number of other organisations that organise oil workers have called for a demonstration tomorrow, as we heard from the representative of Leirstein. I see this as a clear violation of the government's promises, precisely because one of the campaigners promised that no such tax atrocities would occur. In the spring, 17 000 signatures from oil workers and others were promoted against a similar sharpening, and then the government parties outside the Storting promised that if they only came to power, this sharpening would be reversed. We got it into a revised budget with the help of the Progress Party. Why can't the Council of States promise to keep their promises? Now, after all, there's a majority in Stortinget. The budget has not been completed. Do you want to put pressure, councillor, on your party traps here, so that we get to this change in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e117	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President and not to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e120	I think I just have to repeat the answer I gave last. After all, we have been in a situation where, in 24 days, we were going to come up with our proposals for changes to the budget presented by the government of Bondevik to the Stortinget. That's the time we had on us after the government change. That means we're not in goals in many areas mentioned in the Soria Moria statement where we have greater ambitions. So this is one of the proposals that we have not now made, on the basis of an overall priority in what we were going to put forward to the Stortinget for 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e125	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e129	My question also goes to the Minister of Finance. The government's tax regime has produced strong reactions, including among the government party's own people and in LO. The tax scheme shows that the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party sailed under a false flag in the election campaign. Again, over and over again, we heard that the Right and the other government parties gave the most to those who have the most from before. The current Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, thundered at Youngstorget on May 1st that one had to be Finance Minister from the Right to give a tax relief to the richest who were 20 times the tax relief that ordinary people received. To that end, one must say that one might have to be a finance minister from SV in order to propose that the so-called payroll should be taxed at 200, 300, 400, 500 times as much as the ordinary people get on their earnings. The right considers that it is right to lower the tax on wages and salaries so that the marginal tax on wages and salaries approaches the marginal tax on capital. What's interesting here is that the Workers' Party and SV have turned around. What was to be increased tax for the rich has become tax relief only for the rich. I suppose the Minister of Finance will answer that now there has been a tax on dividends, but it is a proposal that came from a Minister of Finance from the Right. So my question is related to the rhetoric that the Workers' Party and SV have led through an entire electoral campaign, which is in stark contrast to what is now proposed in their first state budget. My question is whether the Minister of Finance has grown up enough to take self-criticism as regards the rhetoric that has led through an entire electoral campaign, compared to the proposal that is actually being promoted in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e138	This proposal for the 2006 state budget that we have presented, and with the changes we have proposed regarding the tax regime, means more taxes for the richest. If we start with the 100 richest people in Norway, 2 pst is. of their income on compensation of employees. That's why it's completely wrong when the Right and others only look at the changes that have been made to pay taxes. But even there, this government has proposed a significant tightening in relation to the Bondevik II presented to the Stortinget, and when you look at it together with the changes in the property tax that both mean an increase in the net income tax and an increase in the wealth tax for those who have the most, and what we have done on the protection rate, which is important for the dividend tax, our tax profile is much more fair than the Bondevik II stated. The reason for this is, of course, if you look at revenues over 1 million. kr, it's just 14 pst. of those who make over 1 million. kr, which has only employee income. Everyone else has significant income from both wealth and dividends. That's why we're shifting the taxation of the rich from employee income to that of capital income. And because capital income is the most distorted distribution we have in Norway, this gives a very good distribution profile in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e143	That was an interesting answer. I believe that it is not particularly social to apply special taxes to Norwegian capital invested in Norway. Nor do I believe that it is particularly social to tax Norwegian jobs out of the country. It does not contribute to value creation and jobs in Norway. However, my question is related to pay taxes. That's what we also discussed in the election campaign, where Kristin Halvorsen referred to the payroll in Norway with Eivind Reiten and others, who got $100,000 in tax bills with the Right. They get even more of SV. But my criticism is primarily about the fact that SV has now removed the tax relief for them with low and ordinary revenues. They are now being eaten with a tax relief of a few hundred kroner. With the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, people with low and ordinary income, from NOK 190 000, would get NOK 1200 in the tax bill, and those with around NOK 450 000 would get NOK 4 400. So you have removed the tax relief for ordinary people, and then you have maintained the tax relief for the payroll.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e150	The President recalls that the speech is addressed to the President and not to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e153	This is completely wrong. For revenues below NOK 200000, this government provides a significantly greater relief than the government Bondevik provided. What we have done is to increase the tax on the high-income groups in relation to what Mr. Bondevik II said. I simply think that the representative from the Right should also be very honest. For now, the representative from the Right is filling in the tax relief proposed by Bondevik II in relation to those with large assets. That's why this is going to be a completely wrong image to give. If I stick to the hundreds richest in Norway, it's true that they have 2 pst. of its income as compensation of employees. They would receive a tax relief on their employee income. But because they have so much wealth, our proposal to tax them will increase the tax by more than 1 million. kr. These are people who would get tax relief if the right-wing dominant Bondevik II government proposal went through. So this has a very good distribution profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e162	The President will allow four additional questions – first Gjermund Hageseter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e165	I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister of Finance on the fact that she seems to be getting through the State budget unchanged in Stortinget and is therefore also able to secure herself a tax bill of about NOK 16 000. What's in this state budget is a tax relief for those with high incomes, which was also said by the previous speaker. It's high-wage civil servants, it's high-wage bureaucrats, it's high-wage politicians who get huge tax credits. This will be financed, inter alia: by people most, and also by those who create values in this country. Most people will be tax-enhanced and tax-enhanced by increasing food and transport VAT, which will be the most pronounced for those with the lowest income. That is why this is an unsocial budget. My question is: What does the Minister of Finance think about this social profile in the 2006 state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e172	This is not an unsocial budget. If we go to the employees, I think there's one thing that provokes ordinary employees more than anything else, and that's that until now they've been able to see that people who have had big incomes have been able to avoid paying taxes according to their ability. That's what's now changing. It'll be like a person with 2.4 million. kr in income, which was previously able to legislate and take part of its earnings as capital income and thus escape 28 p.m., is now subject to a tax tightening of NOK 700000 per year. This is one of the greatest injustices we have in the tax system in Norway, and that is what is now corrected. Unfortunately, it is that some high-wages do not have wealth, and do not have significant income from capital, and it is true, as the Progress Party then says, that in isolation they will have a tax haven that they do not need and that many of us could have been ahead of them. But overall, the changes in taxes on wealth and capital taxation are leading to a fairer tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e181	In the last answer, it almost seemed as if the Minister of Finance were tired of the fact that high pay did not have capital income. I don't know if that's an answer she's standing by. I do not think it seems that the Minister of Finance is quite comfortable to explain the profile that the Government's tax arrangements have been given. I also understand that the central government party is now a bit in doubt about the scheme that the government has put forward, really is so well distributed. And that's probably after others have signed up on the track to say the same thing. The Minister of Finance said that this is a very good distribution profile. In a letter to Stortinget, LO states that the tax regime of the Stoltenberg government provides huge tax relief for high wages. It's unacceptable to LO. How does the Minister of Finance view the criticism from the Landsorganisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e190	I'm surprised. Firstly, for all those who followed the negotiations of Soria Moria, it was quite clear that the tax reform which has been dealt with in the Grand Duchy by several crossroads was to be carried out. It was a result of the negotiations, and it was very well received in LO, and in many other groups. Then I'm also amazed that you don't look at what happens in total tax. Because if there's something wrong in Norway, it's the big wealth and the big income from capital. Therefore, it is very good distribution profile to ensure that large capital income and large assets are distributed better than today. But what I'm perhaps most surprised about is the Christian People's Party, which was behind the Bondevik II government's 2006 tax proposal, which would mean a much greater relief in the payroll tax for those who have the most – twice as much income of 800,000 kroner – than what we have now presented. So my opinion is that the Christian People's Party is much more served by the tax arrangement that we have presented. And I'm very excited about how the Christian People's Party is going to act in this room. Here we've got money for a lot of good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e199	The President reminds us that both questions and answers during the additional round are 1 minute. Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e205	The maturity of the Norwegian tax system has been the difference in the tax rate between labour and capital and not the millimetre measurement between different employee incomes. That is why it is good that SV within the Ministry of Finance's walls has learned this great difference, and will do something about it. Here I will defend the Minister of Finance in that she has left her previous SV position and is doing what is necessary. It is in the best left-wing tradition to be a businessman for some necessities, and not least in these start-ups it may be reasonable to take advantage of the opportunity. But the greatest danger of this is that increased taxes on dividends, which are necessary to get equal marginal rates, are combined with increased taxes on wealth, which means that small businesses, private ownership, are chased out of the country or perhaps out of businesses. I think Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen might be the one who's getting a lot of capital out of the country. Does she agree with what Lars Peder Breck, the Central Party spokesman in business policy, says today – that we lost that discussion, and we are also dissatisfied with what we have achieved in taxing family businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e212	No, I don't agree with that. It's just that if you're going to get a fair tax system, you have to have a fair tax on wealth. Today, very many pensioners pay much more in taxes on wealth than those who have large values placed in other ways. Now, what we're doing to change the taxes on wealth is to make sure that those who really have great values also have to be involved and pay taxes according to their ability. Now it's not unsocial to increase the tax on capital. We're now increasing the tax on capital income from 28 to 48 pst. Of course, those in business who make money and make dividends must also be willing to pay taxes on the values they take out. It's a very important part of the tax reform, it's sensible business taxation, and it's fair distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e219	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e222	What the Minister of Finance is now trying to do is talk away from the fact that those to whom tax relief is being reduced are low-paid full-time workers. The group from NOK 190 000 is largely the low-paid full-time workers. It's part of the profile you've put on from the government, and it surprises me in and out. But what I want to go back to is the main question from Jan Tore Sanner that the Minister of Finance did not answer, namely whether you take criticism of the rhetoric in the election campaign, or the rhetoric last autumn. The distribution profile that was debated when the budget was presented last autumn is exactly the same as the one that is now coming up, and I understand that the left-hand side, which has supported the Government, is actually disappointed. Then it was not the capital tax it was attacked on; no, it was Eivind Reiten, Helge Lund and other directors of large Norwegian companies – the same as Kristin Halvorsen has now given great tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e229	Firstly, it is wrong for the representative Erna Solberg here now says about the tax changes for employees. These groups are also taxed with the proposals of this government. It's clear, and it's clear from all of the tables. So it's a question of if you see the taxation of wages separately. And -- yes, there are people who are now getting tax relief, because they are making this approach in taxes on marginal taxes between work and capital, that don't need tax relief. We've been working for 24 days everything we can to reverse the worst losses of the tax havens that were already there. But then you have to see this in context with those who have incomes of over 1 million. kr, also has significant assets and significant income from capital. They wanted a relief with the previous government. They wanted the bag and bag with the previous government. Now they get a little bag of us and a heavy bag of us, and the sum of it is a sharpening of capital for those who have the most in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e236	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e239	My question also goes to the Minister of Finance. The Christian People's Party wants a tax policy that helps to secure and create jobs. That is why we are behind the tax reform, and we are pleased that SV has also come to that. But one of the reasons was that the Bondevik government posted increased depreciation rates for machines – from 20 to 25 pst. – in its 2006 state budget proposal. This measure traveled the country and the beach around and spoke warmly about in the campaign, with and without helmets. The surprise was therefore great when the Minister of Finance presented the additional proposal of the new government, for here the proposal that SV put so much emphasis on before the elections has been reversed. And it does not belong to the 'worst' tax proposals in the budget, as the Minister of Finance said. The government has now come to the conclusion that there are no economic conditions that might suggest that it should now give priority to stimulating high investment firms. So there won't be any increased depreciation rates anyway. The proposal lay there, promoted for the Storting, and could only have been maintained. This is disappointing, it is very unexpected, not least when we know what the Minister of Finance's own party wrote in his alternative state budget for the current year. It says: ‘An important step in modernising business is the faster depreciation of machinery and equipment [[...]] Yes, here, too, we see what has gone on in this entire questioning process so far, a huge difference in what you said before the election, and what you did right after the election. It is not only rhetoric that has changed, but also politics has changed. I would like to ask the Council of State: what is it that makes Minister of Finance Halvorsen consider the need for changes in the depreciation rates so completely different from what party leader Halvorsen did just before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e259	I had been looking forward to this line from the representative Høybråten. I thought we were going to have a little round in relation to what was in the evening post yesterday, but I now understand that the Højbräten and the Christian People's Party have found out that the proposal for the state budget we have submitted has a much better social profile than the one they themselves were forced to do with the Right – so it's okay. So at the depreciation rates. Yes, it is true that the previous government has put in a proposal to change the depreciation rates – which we have not insisted on. It is paragraph 1 that it is not of the priority issues of the Soria Moria negotiations, and paragraph 2 that for those parts of the industry for which this would mean significant relief, it is doing quite well now. That's why it's not part of the priorities we've been doing for 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e266	I understand that the Council of State would like to talk about something other than that question. That's understandable, because this is quite incomprehensible to ordinary people. Øystein Djupedal, Vice President of SV, now a member of the Government, stated on SV's own websites as late as 7 September: ‘The business community is asking for better depreciation rules and a country that cares. We have many tools in the toolbox, but we need a government that does not boast of its own inaction, but dares to be active." Yes, the new government has certainly been active, but above all, the activity has been removing tools from the toolbox. This proposal, which was discussed at the latest on 7 September, has been removed four days before the elections, has been abandoned in research, and has been eliminated in Innovation Norway. Is this what you want to fill in the toolbox? Or does the Minister of Finance agree with Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen, who has confirmed to TV 2 that, yes, some tools have actually been removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e276	No, I don't agree with that. Firstly, the representative Højbrätten is quite right that SV proposed to change the depreciation rates, with the exact reason that the Højbrätten now reads out in Stortinget. But it is also the case that the price tag for this is relatively small for 2006, but more than 1.5 billion in 2007. And in an overall assessment and after the negotiations on Soria Moria, this is a proposal that has not been reached. But it also coincides with the situation of those parts of Norwegian business that would have earned a change in depreciation rates. The situation is quite good when it comes to it – not just the one, but Norwegian business at all. And that's why it's not prioritised in this area. In fact, we have a lot of areas that should be given priority. We're going to have an active business policy. For example, the whole school and education system is the most important investment in forward-looking industrial policy that you can make in 2005 and 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e281	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e285	In addition to the write-offs that SV's next leader, Øystein Djupedal, went around in the election campaign and boasted should be improved after they got in position, there are also a number of other conditions that have now been exacerbated. One has increased the dividend tax. One also has a sharp tax on wealth, and of course it makes it less attractive to invest in Norway. Even before these changes have come into force, there is a tendency for many large Norwegian companies to expand more abroad than they are expanding in Norway. In other words, Norwegian enterprises create more jobs abroad than in Norway. These increases will, of course, accelerate developments and affect Norwegian workplaces. This is the Advance Party's concern, and my question to the Minister of Finance is: What kind of instrument does the Minister of Finance have to prevent Norwegian jobs from going abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e290	The concern that the representative of the Progress Party brings here is what we need. And it has to be behind measures taken in relation to business and in relation to the taxation of business. But this government has not put forward a proposal to tax business that would give an excuse to move its business out. We're going to come back to Stortinget with a lot of suggestions about how we can pursue a more active business policy, because it's one of the ambitions that is very clear in the Soria Moria statement. We're going to come back with how we're going to use state ownership to secure business in Norway. We're going to come back with how we can ensure that we stimulate and secure lending schemes for businesses around, not only in the central parts of the country, but throughout the country – the districts as well. So we're going to do a very offensive business policy in sum. In addition, I have to say that in many areas tax relief has been implemented, for example. the net pay scheme, which is continued and improved over the next year. It has a major impact on coastal workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e302	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e305	During the annual budgetary procedures, SV has always proposed improving depreciation rules, and the reference has been improved productivity, improved profitability and, in particular, improved working conditions for employees. Øystein Djupedal has often said that what we are going to do, we are going to do. Now, when we read the supplementary proposition, we say about depreciation: «In order for the tax bases to reflect real economic conditions, depreciation rates must reflect the actual economic impairment of the operating assets. Consideration of stable and predictable tax rules [[...]] In other words, it is believed that this good universal tool for Norwegian business has now lost the Socialist Left Party in government. But now I heard Kristin Halvorsen say to the previous asker that you will come back to Stortinget with new things for business. Does this mean that you want to re-open the universal tool, or have you thrown it for good?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e317	I am not now notifying that there are new proposals regarding depreciation rates for 2006. But I have no problem with what SV has said up until now about these depreciation rates. This has been an important proposal from SV, but it has not achieved the priorities we have set for 2006 and 2007. For the part of business that would benefit from this, in this cyclical situation, there is no need for that kind of instruments to be taken into account. But this is one of the proposals that we are going to consider further in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e322	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e325	It was obvious that a majority government would lead to changes in the Storting, but that the parties behind the majority government would take on the role of taking over the entire opposition as well, is well to take a little bit of Møller's tran. We see that in almost every newspaper we open. Now it's okay that SV's leader as Minister of Finance says she was unable to fulfill the promises, which were so strong, about depreciation rates. But it is significantly more than what affects the large value creation around the small enterprises, in the tax proposal that exists. The tax on shares, as regards changes in the protection rate, in the remuneration deduction for individual enterprises, changes in the tax FUNN scheme, etc. It's all for the worse. And that's the opposite of what the previous government did, which in four years helped make it 50,000 new businesses. And my simple question is this: what in the government's tax system is better for business and small businesses than what the Bondevik II government put forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e332	The representative Sponheim is right to say that if you look at only the changes that have occurred on the tax side of this budget, there will be traders and those who have large incomes from capital, who will have to pay more to the community. This applies to traders who make money, as is the case for others who make money. It's a change that Sponheim's own government started on, and it's quite right that Sponheim says that we have increased taxation, for example. in the case of dividends. But Norway is a good place to do business. Now there are not 50,000 net new businesses that have come into existence under the previous government. Of course, there's a change in companies. But in particular, the fact that we have committed ourselves to a budget that no one can use as an excuse to increase interest or strengthen the rate of interest is the most important framework condition for business in the future, and it is kept very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e339	Stortinget goes to the next main question – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e342	I want to ask the Minister of Oil and Energy a question. There is great confusion around the government’s view of petroleum-free zones in the northern regions and in the Lofoten. It's not the oil and energy minister's fault. In an interview with Dagens Näringsliv on 14 November, he is very clear. He is described as a freshman in oil activity in the north, and as a freshman, he is strong in faith and has clear testimony. His clear message is that he does not want petroleum - free zones in the north. Yes, he makes it very clear that it would be a mistake to establish these. I noticed when this was a theme at the Central Party National Meeting, that Enoxen was one of the architects behind the compromise that came into the program, where it is stated that there will be petroleum-free zones in the north. The same holds true for SV, who not only believes it in its party program, but believes that the Soria Moria declaration definitely states that it should be such zones. Therefore, Hallgeir Langeland in today’s industry on 14 November states that permanent petroleum-free areas should be defined at the time of submission of the management plan. What is the Government's view of this important point, which was so central in the negotiations on Soria Moria? Is the Government in line with the Government, with the Central Party program, or with the SV's expectations of the Government's policy, based on the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e353	The Soria Moria declaration is crystal clear at this point: in the context of the treatment of the Barents Sea Management Plan, it is explicitly stated that there will be areas in which petroleum activities are not to be carried out. This is the way we have always treated the opening of new areas on Norwegian pedestal. This government intends to proceed step by step and carefully, in the same way as the previous government, of which the party of the representative Kvassheim was part. We are talking here about a vulnerable area environmentally, we are talking about an important area in relation to fisheries policy, and we need to ensure that this is managed in a holistic way, where the interests of different industries and the environment can go hand in hand. This government has already stated that Northland VI should not be opened up to petroleum activity during this four-year period in which we are now in. It's obfuscated. Petroleum-free zones are an unpresist concept that this government has no choice to use. On the other hand, we have said that there will be areas that will not be opened to activity. In that is exactly what has been the tradition in relation to the way we have opened areas on a Norwegian base. Technology development and increased knowledge of the consequences of what we're doing, suggests that in maybe 15 years, 20 years, future growth will have the opportunity to open up these fields that we do not find sound or desirable at this stage. This possibility will be open to future accumulation and may be addressed in this context. To say that the undersigned is new-free in relation to oil activities in the north is enough to take something strongly into account – that is the term of the newspaper. I have been among those who have been skeptical about oil activities in the north – not only skeptical, I have been opposed to oil activities in the north. I now believe that increasing knowledge and technology development means that we can move forward carefully in these areas, in order to clarify what resources need to be available in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e365	I want to ask the additional question to the Minister of Finance. We now hear that the Minister of Oil and Energy is not only opposed to permanent petroleum-free areas in the north, he also argues strongly and clearly against it. On the day the Soria Moria statement was presented, Kristin Halvorsen said to TV 2 that she expected a broad consensus on the permanent protection of sensitive areas in the north. The same expectation has been expressed, to which I referred, by Hallgeir Langeland and other representatives from SV. My question to the Minister of Finance and the SV leader is therefore whether it is that she still wants areas in the north that are permanently protected from petroleum activity, and whether she expects it to be widely agreed, at least in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e374	Then state councillor Kristin Halvorsen can choose if she will answer. Although the question also went to the SV manager, she does meet here as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e377	That's right. This is not my constitutional responsibility to Stortinget. Let me just say what's in the Soria Moria statement. It says it. ‘that petroleum activities are not to be started during the period in Northernland VI. When the overall management plan is available for the other sea areas outside the Lofoten and northwards, including the Barents Sea, the areas to be opened and the areas in which no petroleum activity is to take place shall be determined». This shall be determined by Stortinget. That's what covers the government's vision, as far as we've come now. However, we know that we are facing a situation where the government's treatment of the management plan to be submitted is to determine which areas are to be opened and which areas are to be closed. The areas to be closed may only be reopened by a roll-over decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e389	The President will allow three follow-up questions to the main issue, which is initially to the Minister of Oil and Energy – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e392	Petroleum activities in North Norway are particularly important, both for the nation, for the county and for the Norwegian oil industry. But if we're going to have some business up there, we're going to have to look more. Today, 19th concession rounds are under way for the allocation of new exploration sites. The Soria Moria statement says that the first quarter should be maintained as an allocation deadline, but at a conference last week there were doubts about this. The Minister of Oil and Energy was quite positive, but the Minister of Environmental Protection raised more doubts by talking about a lot of protection. To journalists, she said that the allocation of new areas should wait until the Barents Sea Management Plan is dealt with at Stortinget. It means at least the second quarter of this allocation. For the industry and the national community, this must be a serious setback and not least a breach of the government's promises. Therefore, I want to ask the Council of State if the Council of State can assure the Storting that we can ignore the statements of the Minister of Environment, and that the entire 19th concession round will go as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e397	The government has provided this document – the call brochure – as a basis for its work on the 19th concession round. In the call, as the previous government was behind, it is said that 19th concession round, which had an application deadline yesterday, will be dealt with during the first quarter of next year. However, the Minister for the Environment is right in saying, as the Minister for the Environment said at that conference, that the Stortinget will be receiving the overall management plan for the first six months of next year. That's the Government's intention. This document — and it also follows this government — makes provision for five coastal areas in the Barents Sea to be dealt with after the management plan has been finalised in the Government, and is taken into account in the conclusions of the management plan. We've assumed that we're going to follow the same scheme. It is a responsible way of doing this, because then we will have to take into account the conclusions drawn in the management plan, especially in relation to the five coastal areas mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e404	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e407	I seriously wonder what has really happened to the oil and energy minister only in two days – not just the piece of art that the Council of State has turned 180 degrees, but actually 360 degrees, from having been resistors of oil and gas activity in the north to Monday through three helsides in today's business to appear as a freshly frozen adherent of increased pace in the north – actually increasing the pace of what the previous Bondevik government presented, a policy that would have Right Solar, Warm Support and given optimism, speed and activity in the north. That's what I'm really wondering, because the Council of State decided on Monday that petroleum-free zones would be a mistake. He also struck on Monday crystal clear that the permanent protection of northern search areas is not applicable. Then my question is, what in the name of heaven is what has happened from Monday to Wednesday?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e412	I say nothing else today than what I said on Monday. It is quite right, as the representative Kristiansen points out, that over time I have changed my view of oil activities in the north. As I also said in a previous answer today, it is related to the fact that over time we have also developed increased knowledge of the consequences of what we are doing, and we have developed technologies that enable us to operate today in areas where we could not do it for a few years. The Kristin field, which is just opened, the Worm Lange and the expansion of Snow White are all examples of this being possible. In fact, I think that more people would stand by not being fanatical trailers of drilling as much as possible for oil at any price, but take into account that we are going to have consistency between both the environment, the consideration of the fishing industry and the sensibleness of moving forward step by step in order to do so in an environmentally sound way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e419	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e422	Petroleum-free zones have been considered by many to be good environmental policies in the management of our seas. Now there was no room for these in the Soria Moria statement, where maybe these petroleum-free zones were lost in the fog home. But we have heard that the Council of State says that petroleum-free zones are an unclear concept. As a result, there is still uncertainty about the environmental profile of this government in the maritime areas. The representative Sørensen of SV claims that the Government aims to establish so-called environmental zones before the management plan is ready. On the other hand, state councils have stated that he is skeptical about the permanent protection of marine areas. The question then arises: Is it the case that the State Council pre-empts the management plan and has left the objective of petroleum-free zones before the management plan is available?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e430	Whether it has been an objective in the management plan to facilitate petroleum-free zones or not, neither I nor the representative know. My answer to this is exactly what I gave and that the Minister of Finance also gave. There will be areas which, in the course of the management plan, will not be opened up to petroleum activity. The areas that this government refuses to open, which, hopefully, also receive support from the Stortinget, can only be opened once or at any time in the future by decision of the Stortinget. So the Storting is given the full opportunity to address issues that are central to caring for areas for other activities, to meet them in relation to the need that one has within travel life to have areas that are cared for in that way, and environmental and fisheries considerations – what it might be. There are questions the Storting is invited to decide on in future decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e435	The size is going to be a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e438	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Health and Care. The government parties have, through the election campaign that we have behind us, traveled the country and the beach around and promised a number of different things. Among the things that are promised are free school books, water in the swimming pool, and the school needs to be strengthened considerably. In addition, it has been suggested that 10000 new annual nurseries should be set up by the end of 2009. Yes, it does not just say it – if we are to take the Soria Moria statement seriously. And that's what you're going to do in these days, obviously. Although one can get a certain impression that one is not always as agreed internally with regard to this declaration, it is nevertheless written under the heading ‘Parents’ of the Soria Moria Declaration, paragraph 2, as follows: ‘relationship with the level in 2004 shall increase the number of annual shifts in the care service by 10000 by the end of 2009.’» [[...]] Interestingly, when you ask government parties how to follow up all these promises, you get references to increases in the free income of municipalities. Yes, there is no way how much is going to be solved within these funds, in terms of the free income of municipalities. But what worries me about these new year works is what you see some municipalities do. I'm going to use a simple example from More and Romesdal, from the municipality of Volda. Tuesday this week, a recommendation had been made to the local government to conclude an agreement on the rental and construction of a new cultural house in Volda. Not only shall they enter into a lease but it shall last for more than 20 years. This will consume a lot of the money that comes into free income for the municipality. My question to the Minister of Health and Health is: How many new jobs in the care sector will these be for this municipality in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e450	This government wants more dignified care for the elderly. I have met many older people who think, and rightly so, that they don't get good enough care and care either at home or in institutions, because many of the employees have too little time. I have met many employees who feel very worn out because they do not have the time they feel they should have had for each one. That's why this government has so clearly said, and has as a clear goal, and we're going to do everything we can to satisfy it: 10,000 more employees during this period. We need that in order to get more dignity into the care of the elderly. How are we going to do that? Paragraph 1: Clearly, it is crucial that the municipalities – where this must be done first and foremost – have an economy that makes this possible. So for next year we have already proposed a massive escalation of billions of dollars in relation to that. We have a close dialogue with the Municipal Councils on how to get it done, by educating more, re-schooling, getting more people to go from part-time to full-time – which is actually what a lot of people want – and we are about to make a concrete plan for how to achieve the goal of 10,000 more employees. So this is very high priority, it's absolutely necessary, and the government is going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e457	Unfortunately, it helps so little with good intentions if you don't use the tools that need to be, just to get these yearbooks where they belong, into the care and care sector, and not spend the money on other things. The government has clearly stated that it does not want to be earmarked. We see exactly this kind of statement that here, then, municipalities choose to build cultural houses instead of increasing the effort in the care sector, where there is a real need for it. The only possible thing to do is to label the ear. The question of the Minister of Health and Welfare is this: Will it now be possible to take the sense and ensure that these funds are now earmarked for the care sector, so that the elderly at home who need these services are sure that the number of annual work is increasing and that it is not stopped by decisions in the municipalities to entirely different areas than they are intended to?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e466	In contrast to the Progress Party, this government believes that the wit is fairly equally distributed across the country, and that there are actually quite a number of sensible local politicians both in municipalities and in counties. It is clear that the main answer is that they need to get more money, as this government is now adding up. In fact, I have faith that local politicians are going to give a great deal of priority to care for the elderly and school. That's the main gravity of the money. So we have to trust that this will work out. Of course, we're going to follow up on education, re-schooling and making arrangements. We have a very close dialogue with the municipalities to achieve this goal. I think we should do this, but it's not like – in our opinion – that we are in big trouble or in government, managing the whole mind of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e471	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e474	I could say a little about what Stoltenberg said during the election campaign, that he would not give five cents in tax bills until it shines with the care of the elderly. But I will leave that debate now. The outgoing government started working on a major report on the quality of care services. It is well and good with several hands, but it also has to be quality to ensure the safety and dignity of all those who depend on care. What strategies does the red-green government have to improve the quality of care services? Can the Council of States confirm that it will follow up the work of the Cooperation Government? When can we possibly expect to get a case to the Storing regarding the quality – the content – of the services?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e483	As the representative Sjøli mentioned, it is absolutely essential that we have a good quality in our care for the elderly. It's a work we're going to continue, of course. In concrete terms, on behalf of the Government, I will come back to Stortinget with a communication on care policies to the next spring, so that one can then discuss both annual work and, of course, quality. I mean, among other things: increasing the number of employees in this sector will in itself be a major improvement in quality compared to the level of awareness per person. today. We are also going through e.g. how the fixed medical system works in relation to our sick. I think it's too bad in many places. I also believe that older people should have several places where they can talk about their case, i.e. a type of ombudsman arrangement, etc. We work across a broad sector and a broad field to ensure that quality is improved. But if we're going to do that, as I said, we also have to make sure that the municipalities have the money to do that job with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e490	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e493	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that the municipalities themselves will have to decide on the free resources. The Christian People's Party is concerned that care for the elderly and its quality need to be improved. The lots have agreed to raise the standard for nursing homes and housing. The national audit has concluded that the action plan on care for the elderly has been successful. Later, the Bondevik government started work to improve the quality of care services. However, in addition, it announced a big message about future care services based on the challenges of capacity and quality required by the growth of the number of older people. Will the Council of State follow up the work of inviting a cross-political lift also in the message that I have now understood comes to spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e503	I can confirm that of course I want the widest possible majority in order to give the elderly a more worthy old age, and enough care and care for those who need it. I can only confirm that the message is coming. We're working on it. And of course, I'm happy with all the support for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e510	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e513	It helps very little that the Council of State meets with many older people and many who work in the care sector, if she herself cannot do anything about quality improvement or the standard of care for the elderly. The government just denies the possibility of being able to influence this, by unilaterally entrusting it to 430 other producers. When will the Government begin to look at the individual elderly in terms of the rights and choices that older people in our society should also have? Children’s families have the right to make choices. School students have the right to make choices. But older sick people should not have the right to make any choices. They shall be offered the defined standard which the Working Party and the Government SV consider to be the right standard. So they don't have the right to make any choices. They shall not be entitled to opt out of poor solutions and to better solutions. I don't think the government is giving a good answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e520	I am a little surprised that the representative Siv Jensen is so scratched in his criticism. It is only now that there have been such large transfers, in our proposal for the government budget for next year. I have not just seen that the Progress Party in the past has fought most to make such large transfers to the municipalities. It is crucial to succeed in the care of the elderly. Of course, we are busy with every person who lives at home and needs help there. However, the fact is that many older people living at home have been cut off in the activity offer and received much less help at home than they should have had, because the transfers to the municipalities have been too small – with the government that has just left. The same is true of those who live in institutions. There's been too little help. There's too little help from doctors, etc. We now want to do something about this – in cooperation with the municipalities. It's the municipalities, where people live, which, in our opinion, have to design the offers so that each one is satisfied. Then, of course, we're going to do what we can - by making sure that there are enough employees to put in, that, among other things. are standards for medical services in hospitals, etc. – so that the quality is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e532	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e535	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. I'm afraid that the new government in just a few and twenty days has managed to create quite a bit of confusion and a lot of uncertainty about its future petroleum policy. We have already seen that quite clearly, during one of the questions today. There's no lack of ambition, but from ambition to action, it's miles away. A relationship with you, among others. it is programmed in the Soria Moria declaration to have full CO2 cleaning of gas power plants by 2009. And then you do the trick of adding 20 million. kr in the 2006 budget for such measures. Only Kårstø alone will charge an annual cost of SEK one and a half billion. I think those who have planned to develop new gas power plants in Norway really need to take a round in the closet and see if the new government is destroying these calculations. We got yesterday a presentation of the 19th concession round, with record interest in developing activity in the north. There is almost a doubling of the number of national and international companies that want to develop the northern part of the country. It was commendable that the Danish Council of State, Enoxen, opened Monday – through three weekends in Today’s Business – for new full activity in the north. After the rounds that have been from Monday to Wednesday – with the dementing of the Council of State today of its ambitions Monday in Today’s Business – my question is: With the uncertainty that the new government has managed to create in two days, what does the Minister of Oil and Energy really think that the companies that had a great interest in taking up the north are left with?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e551	There is no uncertainty as to activity in the north at all. It would be foolish in this room to try to hide that there are different parties in government – as well as between the three parties in the previous government – that there are different views of how much activity you should have in the northern regions. This was a question that was frequently discussed in the previous government and which led to a decision to draw up a comprehensive management plan. It was a reasonable grip, as this government follows up. This government also follows up the ambition of the previous government to grant in connection with the 19th concession round. So we've followed the exact same arrangement that the previous government followed. If there is uncertainty about future petroleum activity in the north, the previous government has laid a foundation for it, as we follow exactly the same arrangement and the same timetable as the previous government laid down. This government too will progress gradually in the development of the Barents Sea. The Barents Sea can become an important energy region in the future. It is gratifying that as many companies as we see in the 19th concession round are still interested in participating in the development of Norwegian base. This applies not only to the Barents Sea, but equally to the Norwegian Sea, which is a mature base. A few years ago, the companies said that there was interest in looking small. It was not expected to do great things, and the profitability was poor. Now we see that there's more interest. It is good to be able to manage the Norwegian Sea as well as the mature areas in a long-term perspective – a management that can provide employment and value creation for many years to come. This is a policy on which this government will base its work and which will take full account, both from an environmental point of view and in view of the fact that different industries will also be able to live side by side in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e564	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I'm afraid that today's Council of State instead of taking advantage of the opportunity to clarify actually, it's making a lot of the opposite -- he's confusing. In fact, we are talking about the national economic locomotive: the Norwegian oil and gas industry, which provides one third of the nation's income. It's record-breaking investment on Norwegian pedestal this year – DKK 100 billion. The perspective in the northern regions is very bright, and it is now possible to move in parallel and in line with Russian developments in the Barents Sea and to contribute to the setting of a Norwegian technology and environmental standard. Here the new government has been able to create uncertainty. My recommendation is that you take a walk back in the closet and clean it up. I do not doubt the ambitions of the new Council of State. But there is a lot of evidence to suggest that in this area, too, SV has left a hand on the steering wheel. Then it's not full gas. Then there are both brakes on in Norwegian oil and gas industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e571	It should only be lacking that SV should not have a hand on the steering wheel of this policy area, as well as in other policy areas, when there are three parties in government, in the same way that the Left and Christian People's Party had a hand on the steering wheel in relation to the Right Petroleum Policy, which was quite different from the policy of the previous government. That's the way it's going to be in multi-party governments. It is Ivar Kristiansen who is fully aware – at least he should be aware of it – of the four years in the government of Right, when exactly these kinds of compromises had to be made. So this government is really addressing the challenges facing the north. We are implementing the work on the management plan, which was started by the previous government. We're doing the work on the 19th concession round, which was started by the previous government. We're doing this this way just to create predictability. That is one of the reasons why the Soria Moria Declaration has said that 19th concession rounds are to be conducted as foreseen. It is in order to create predictability for an industry that is important to Norway and for an industry that is important to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e578	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e581	One of the issues raised by the representative Kristiansen was uncertainty about gas power. The discussion about using more Norwegian natural gas in Norway rather than just sending it out of the country has been going on for a long time. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government says that action should be taken with CO2 cleaning and that the State should contribute. But they don't say anything about how much the state will contribute. Statennet has said that if gas power stations are not built in Norway before 2010, there may be darkness in More and Romesdal. Both Statoil-Chief Helge Lund and Hydro-Chief Eivind Reiten have said that they prefer long-term research rather than urgent work with CO2 cleaning. We know that there is a great chance that no gas power plant will be built in Mongstad, as they want, if they are required to clean up CO2. Will the Council of State assure the builders, both those who have a concession and those who will apply for a concession, that they will not be subject to any cost of CO2 cleaning in addition to the cost of any allowance purchase?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e603	I'd like to remind you that it's actually approx. five years ago a concession was granted for the development of gas power plants. The debate on the construction of gas power plants has been going on in Stortinget for ten years. When gas power plants have not yet been built in Norway, it is not due to the requirement for CO2 cleaning. It's because the builders haven't seen it profitable to deploy gas power plants. It is the criterion that will primarily determine whether gas power plants will be built or not. The government has a clear ambition to contribute to the future CO2 treatment of gas power plants being built in Norway. We also have to implement that. I believe that the debate on climate issues will be one of the most important environmental policy debates we can take in the years to come. It is also high on the agenda in other countries. And with the increase you expect it to be in fossil fuel consumption, this is a debate that everyone should participate in and look at how we can solve. The government has taken an important step by starting work to carry out CO2 cleaning on Kårstø. We have proposed a total of 20 million. kr in the next year's budget. That's what we need to get this work started in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e621	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e624	Award shall be made in 19th concession round in the first quarter of 2006. The management plan shall be dealt with in the Stortinget after that. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the management plan shall determine the areas in which it is to be active and in which it is not to be active. Then it says explicitly in the Soria Moria statement: ‘This shall be determined by the Size.’ Many would think it would be illogical to do an allocation first and then await treatment in Stortinget. Governments have reserved five coastal blocks in Finnmark to which one will return. At the OLF conference, the Minister for Environment said that the Government will only grant the concession after the management plan has been finalised. What other reservations will one then take in addition to the five blocks already mentioned by the Council of State earlier in the Questionnaire?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e636	To the extent that there is no link between the 19th concession round and the management plan, the previous government has also contributed to it. Let me quote a few sentences from the invitation to the 19th concession round, which was sent out by the state councillor Thorhild Widvey. It says: ‘The call is in line with the strict environmental requirements imposed by the Government’s decision to reopen the Barents Sea.’ Furthermore, any allocation and conditions for the allocation of blocks 7123, 7124, 7124/6, 7125/4 and 7125/5 are assumed not to conflict with the Government’s conclusion in the management plan. In other words, the previous government offered to deal with – with the exception of the five blocks – the other blocks before the Government had dealt with the management plan. This means that one would have knowledge of the content of the management plan, but not necessarily that it should have been finalised. We have committed to keeping the same progress plan as the previous government. Then we assume that the other non-coastal areas will not necessarily conflict with the management plan. But we will take the necessary account when dealing with these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e650	I record that some people characterize the Government as a seminar. The fact that the Stoltenberg government appears at least as winged, has contradictions both internally and outwardly, and has disagreement that flourishes, there is little doubt about it. The oil industry is the country's most important industry. One now has 100 billion kroner in investments on the base alone, which makes the supplier industry go very well. Does not the Council of State Enoxen see that the unclear signals that his government and he is sending now actually damage Norway's reputation as a country in which it is attractive to invest, that Norwegian pedestal will now have less attraction on international companies, and that in the long term this will harm Norwegian suppliers and Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e657	The case is that the deadline for applying for the 19th round of the concession expired at 9 p.m. 12 yesterday. There is a very large number of applicants for the 19th concession round, both in the case of the blocks declared in the Barents Sea and in the case of parts of the 34 blocks declared in the North Sea. This, therefore, definitely does not indicate that this government has alarmed the companies from continuing high activity on Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e662	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-16.ana.ud1190e673	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
