ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e28	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e31	I am pleased to make a proposal that the State should take over all the funding of national roadways, so that these will be free for travellers, that all toll projects started be completed, and that no new toll projects will be started.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e36	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e60	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Per-Kristian Fossstaatsrådet Election City of Haugland State Council Ansgar Gabrielsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Torstein Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e79	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Otherwise, the Minister of Finance and the Government would not be pointing to some positive developments in society, which were inflationary, low interest rates, and that the competitiveness of industry has been strengthened through a lower dollar rate. Many people experience very good advice and strong purchasing power. In this situation, paradoxically, there are two frightening developments. First of all, we have municipalities that have to cut into old age care, cultural services, and schools and close symmetry halls. Last night there was an item on television about missing symmetry instruction. Leisure clubs are being laid down. The second area of development that is frightening is that more and more people are being knocked out of work. There are now many figures showing that 700,000 people in working life are out of work for various reasons, but they are receiving state benefits. There is now a press release from Aetat showing that there is increasing unemployment among health and care workers. These are people the municipalities need. Does the Minister of Finance not see the need to strengthen the local economy in order to benefit these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e90	It is normal for the issue of the local economy to be considered in Stortinget in the course of the examination of the budget in the autumn and in the examination of the revised budget in June. Of course, we will keep reviewing the situation in the municipal sector until revised. I just record that the municipalities together have had a growth in 2004 and 2005 that is actually among the strongest in this decade and in the 1990s. The municipalities have different priorities. Some have water in the swimming pools, but lack of guards, others have no water. But I record that it varies from municipality to municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e97	When I focus on the local economy, it's because this is also related to the unemployment that we're now seeing. After all, it's not going to happen that the unemployment rate under the Bondevik government has increased by 30,000 compared to what it was at the beginning of the period. When we find that there is a major shortage in municipalities, especially within health and care, but also in other areas, and this leads to unemployment among former municipal and public authorities, this has a context. Does the Minister of Finance not see a challenge when it comes to improving the local economy, just to increase employment and get them into useful production?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e104	I don't know anyone who doesn't do useful manufacturing, so I don't think I'm going to point out any special group right there. The government is committed to combating unemployment in general. Historically, unemployment increased in July 2000. We've been able to reverse this trend, so that unemployment is now on its way down. Not least employment keeps setting new records. There have never been as many employees as during this government, and we are also about to beat the record from the current period. I don't think it's appropriate to spend money on stimulating the growth of special industries or special areas in relation to the development of unemployment, but to combat unemployment in general for all groups. I also want to add that the figures for which the unemployment rate is highest vary greatly from six months to six months. The paradox has been that for a long time, the figures have shown that Oslo and Finnmark have been at the peak of unemployment, and, as is well known, the Stortinge have discussed some specific measures in relation to Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e113	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e116	It's a fact that there have been 30 000 more unemployed under this government, and the unemployed have got the harder economics, even though things are going very well in this country. That's the problem. When it comes to municipalities, it is not difficult to get a surplus in the municipal sector if only one drop in supply, so that there are fewer teachers in the school and fewer care workers. What we're now seeing is that it's in the area of health and care there's going to be more people out of work. Does the Minister of Finance not see that one could use these free hands to meet the needs of the care sector, rather than give them unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e123	I have not talked about profits in the local government sector, but I have talked about the strong growth in transfers from the state to the local government sector. It is the Stortinget that decides, and we have had a very strong growth in 2004 and 2005. Any vacancy is a challenge to combat unemployment, the care sector is not exempted, but there is no specific reason to designate some areas as particularly worrying. A free hand from the private sector is just as tragic as being available in the public sector. But I am absolutely convinced that with the investment tasks facing the local government sector now, and with the funds that have been allocated over the last year and in the current year, there will also be room for increased employment gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e131	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e134	It's a paradoxical situation, which I think a lot of people see: we have a rich state, many of us have better advice than in a long time, and then we have a municipal poverty, where we see that the decay and unemployment actually and paradoxically increase – in a situation where the Norwegian economy goes better than in many years. When you hear Per-Kristian Foss’ answers to the questions and challenges he gets about this, it can almost seem as if he is satisfied with the situation. So it's almost 90,000 people who don't have permanent work. Public sector unemployment does not decrease; it rises in some sectors. This is the big challenge: if we are not able to create full employment in a situation where the Norwegian economy is better than ever, when are we going to be able to create full employment? That's why I have to say, as a challenge to Per-Christian Foss, that he has to be something more offensive and say that we're actually going to do something about this, instead of the slightly backward style that this will do enough if we just let the market last long enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e143	I'm a little bit unknown about how the market is going on for a long time when we're talking about the local government sector, but it's possible it can be answered in other contexts. It is wrong that we are facing a public sector that is due. The public sector, including the municipal sector, has invested significantly in recent years. Only tabloid spectacles, selected examples, may characterise the public sector in general as under maturity. Second, the availability does not increase, the unemployment rate generally decreases. We fight unemployment all over the line – not especially in the municipal sector, not especially in the private sector, but across the whole line. I do not think it helps to reduce unemployment when the Workers' Party and SV now want to reintroduce some measures that can help keep people in the job queue, so that they will spend longer time getting a new job. I don't think there are any wise measures to reduce unemployment and increase employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e152	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e155	Increased unemployment in the labour force is likely to become a feature of this government in retrospect. The SSB and the Ministry of Finance have calculated that the labour force is 85 pst. of our total national wealth. A decrease of 7 pst. in the workforce corresponds to the full profit of our oil business. 30 000 more have become unemployed under this government, and 100 000 have been pushed over to disembarkation, to become anonymous unemployed, or to reinstatement. This constitutes 4-5 pst. by our workforce. It's a huge loss we're talking about, it's a huge waste we're talking about. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Does the Minister of Finance at all count on what 10,000 fewer in the workforce represent of the lost value of our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e162	Yes, the questioner is quite right that the value of the labour force is what counts in the national wealth. For this reason, all reforms that can help to transfer people from health care to work, from disability to work, return to work, and from retirement to work – or even longer in work – are important contributions to increasing national wealth, because of the use of labour. Reforms aimed at reducing working time in the short or longer term, for example: The 6-hour day, for which there has been a call for – greater or less political influence over this – will be reforms that are definitely going in the wrong direction. The countries that have tried it are now in full return, and the few attempts we have made in Norway have not produced good results, either in terms of the working environment, sick leave or other conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e167	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e170	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Welfare. A seriously ill cancer patient in Haukeland Hospital was recently refused most adequate cell toxicity treatment, on the grounds that the cost of NOK 120,000 was too high, and that the medical evaluation allegedly added that this cell toxicity treatment would probably only prolong the patient’s life by two months. I've met the patient and his spouse, who said that for them a two-month extension of life would be like an eternity of family, children and grandchildren. It is part of the story that only Haukeland hospitals have gone to the stage of refusing cancer patients this cell poisoning treatment. Is it really the case that now based on economic criteria, the hospital economies determine which life-saving and life-long treatment cancer patients should receive? It is unacceptable, immoral, yes unchristian for me and for the Advancement Party that this should happen in a country with such an economy. What kind of human vision, what human dignity is it that governs our health economy today? Will the Minister of Health immediately ensure that this cancer treatment is given to this patient and to the other four?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e181	I agree with much of the underlying in the question from the representative Alvheim, although I may not join all the characteristics of the treatment he received at the hospital in Bergen. But there are two things here that, at my discretion, are important. We cannot have a situation where there is a very different national practice from hospital to hospital in terms of vital forms of treatment, and where the medical assessment is so different in terms of a relatively well-known life-prolonging drug used for fatal cancer patients. We have implemented a national governance with which to base the use of new drugs. There comes a flood of new life-long drugs, drugs that can also be curative, but with relatively marginal potential. All these things will now be anchored in the Social and Health Directorate and in the leading oncology communities, which will draw up the premise for this, in order for us to have a national approach. We can't have a situation where there's one rule in Bergen and another in Stavanger, as was the case. The second point that is important in this case with Helge Audestad, which is revealed, is that the very funding system for high-cost medicine such as this is not adequately ensured after the hospital reform. There are also things we are looking at. We need to recognise that there is a lot of new and expensive medicine that definitely has life-prolonging properties and that needs to be used in Norway as well. Both of these things have already taken place. I share, as I said, the representative Alvheim's underlying question about the individual matter we saw here – this is not the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e192	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. Now it is that, in general, high-cost medicine has created major problems, especially for the larger hospitals. It applies not only to cell poisons but also to implantation operations. In our opinion, this can be corrected in different ways. We in our party have made a proposal for a foreign budget that will not disturb the Norwegian economy, as all these medicines and possibly the implants are purchased from abroad. Another way to do this is to put cell poisons and implants on the bladder prescription system. We have tried and done this before with relatively good results. What must at least be the main thing is to solve this, so that the individual patient's life and health should not be assessed on the basis of purely economic considerations, as has been done in Haukeland in this case. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he intends to come back to the Stortinget in the revised national budget with a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e201	I fully agree with the representative Alvheim that there are some imperfections that can be solved in different ways. So you might have a different view of how to do it. I don't think the solution would be to say that high-cost medicine in hospitals should automatically go into the blue prescription system. This will lead to a sharp turn towards drug treatment in relation to another type of treatment, with financial disincentives relative to what you do. But the main problem we have to solve, and there I will come back with some thoughts in connection with the revised national budget. Implants were also mentioned. I think it's a relatively unworthy situation when we have weekly look-ups from some of our leading medical environments where you point to marginal groups where you talk about costs on an annual basis of maybe 5-10 million. NOK, within the individual hospital budget, from NOK 5 to 6 billion. I think our professors should spend time on other things than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e209	There will be three follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e212	We have recently seen in this case of cell poisoning treatment for this patient – and not least for this patient group – that a clear majority of parties represented in this room have announced that this needs to be done, we must be able to get this in place. My question to the Minister of Health is: Will this now be put in place for this group, so that we do not go about insecurity pending a national council on this matter? Will this situation now be resolved, not just for this one patient, but for the group related to Haukeland Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e219	I've also met this single patient, and I've, of course, done much more analysis of the problem than that. What I'm now saying we're going to do is follow-up of the cancer plan that was being treated in Stortinget. The current Minister of Health, Højbråten, set up a group of oncologists. We got their report last summer. It's been at the hearing, and we've got 74 opinions. In the course of 14 days, I have the summation of it and I'm going to sign it out in the revised national budget. What I can say is that the situation that has been solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e224	The next follow-up question is from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e227	If you try to look at this issue a little more in principle, it is that it is revealed through the media that we spend significantly less money in Norway for the medical treatment of cancer than what you do in our neighbouring country. It is claimed that this is because hospitals in Norway are governed by an economic system that makes it difficult to use newly developed medicine. Therefore, it is said, Norwegian cancer patients do not receive the best possible treatment. Very often we hear statements that as the world's richest country, we have to afford both the one and the other, but in one area it must be that this must be an opinion that is true: we must take the advice that Norwegian cancer patients receive the best available, professionally recognised treatment. My question is: does the Council of State agree that Norwegian patients appear to have a worse cancer treatment than those patients receive in our neighbouring countries, and what will the Council of State do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e239	If the most important thing about cancer treatment is recovery and survival, it is not right that our patients get a worse offer. Norwegian cancer treatment is based to a lesser extent on medical treatment than on cancer treatment in other Nordic countries. We spend more on treatment per person. resident than the other Nordic countries. What is absolutely certain, and which is indisputable, is that we use less medication in cancer treatment, but the survival rate — that is, recovery, defined to be five years after surgery — is as high in Norway as in our neighbouring countries. Why drugs use more treatment and surgery than medication, I can't answer. But I have also registered that the pharmaceutical industry has been quite concerned about the fact that we use less drugs in cancer treatment than our neighbouring countries. The most important thing for me is that people survive, and I follow the advice given by our leading oncologists in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e244	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e247	The very central thing here is that cancer patients get the treatment that benefits and that helps them to get a good life and preferably of everything to healthy. But the situation we have today is completely unworthy, because here it is the case that cancer patients who can receive treatment outside the hospital, who can receive treatment in general practice, can have cancer medicine prescribed on blue prescription. At the moment you are hospitalized, getting worse and the hospital itself is going to cover it, the hospital won't do it, because of a difficult financial situation, and then you lose the treatment. So you lose treatment when you get worse, because there's not one instance responsible for taking care of the economy here. Had everything been in the Riksstrøgdeverket, so that the expenses were covered whether you were in a hospital or if you were in general practice, then, of course, the Council of State could have entry criteria for dietary use on it in order to prevent the fears of the Council of State. But the unworthy situation you have today is not getting rid of until the day you place responsibility on one hand, that is, at the Rikstrygdeverket, and that they cover the costs. Will the Council of State now make sure that it does?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e252	As the representative, Mr Ballo, said at the outset, it is very important that people become healthy. And then the question is, what changes can we make to increase survival rates? Then I am quite sure that this is at least not the most important measure. Now I have documented the survival rates in cancer care. For example: ovaries, have a 6 1/2-times chance of survival given that one is operated on a cancer gynecological ward, in relation to one of our smaller hospitals. When I look at the survival rate within the main and heaviest cancers, I'm pretty sure there are other measures that are more important to get started. Then there's also something going on with drugs and funding it, but you don't have to think unilaterally that drug treatment is what it takes to increase the survival rate. What Ballo is concerned about, a greater degree of equivalency between outpatient and hospital, is a good input, and I'm working on how we're going to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e259	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e262	My question goes to the Minister of Health. ‘Firepoint’ could tell you about a scandal yesterday. In Ulefoss in Telemark there is a slag heap of radioactive waste. It's got the State's radiation protection in over 40 years. In the Storting in winter we have discussed a matter of landfill for low-radioactive waste, to ensure the low-radioactive waste arising from the production in the North Sea. So it turns out that this one slag mound in Telemark contains maybe four times as much waste as everything we have from the North Sea, and in addition, this waste is six to eight times as radioactive. So this has the State's radiation protection for over 40 years, and the slag mound is right next to the drinking water source of Telemark. How is it possible that Norwegian health authorities have known about this for such a long time without doing anything to ensure radioactive waste?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e270	I have to apologize, I am not able to stand here and say that I know the matter. I don't see all the TV programs, even on the NRK, and I didn't see NRK's program "Fire Point" yesterday, but it sounds like there's a known case, if there's been a slag heap here for 40 years. But I cannot answer the matter except to say that of course I will take it with me, and I will make sure to see the program. It seems strange if it is such a serious matter as it is being made that Norwegian health authorities for 40 years, almost from the aftermath of the Kings Bay case to today, have done nothing about it. But, as I said, I'm going to take the matter with me, because I don't know the details in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e275	That's how you know about this waste, and that it's six to eight times as radioactive as the waste we're now trying to secure in the form of a landfill for low-radioactive waste. At the same time, it is also reported that there may be other deposits in Norway for industrial nuclear waste. Can the Council of State promise me that he will also investigate whether the State's radiation protection system has information about other landfills of the same nature, and that we will have to clean up and secure the hazardous waste?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e280	I can promise both the representative and the president that I will contact the State Radiation Protection Agency today to clarify the facts on which they had to sit related to the issue that has been raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e285	A few representatives have joined in on follow-up questions, but the President does not consider it appropriate for follow-up questions to be raised in relation to a matter where the Council of State has to investigate further. In the president's opinion, it's going to be pretty much just a word game. We therefore move on to the next main question, and the next main question is from the Council of State, excuse the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – wish it would, but... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e290	From many quarters, the health reform is criticised for a democratic deficit, as it is called. People say there's a lot of distance from those who decide in Health-Norway. Hospitals are important to people's sense of security. That is why I think we need to be willing to adjust the reform if we see that there is a need for it. Criticism must be taken seriously. Does the Council of State think that there can be a basis for looking at how most people, together with local and regional authorities, can have an increased influence on the decisions taken by local and regional health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e295	Like the assembly, I have a great deal of understanding that the day before the National Assembly of the Workers' Party, there are some delays – as the Prime Minister's candidate had it in the newspaper today – in relation to titulation. In terms of democratic deficits in health businesses, I don't know if I'm going to put the words 'democratic deficits' as a vignette, but I've probably recorded that some of the governments have taken little in on the fact that they're going to serve a population in terms of perhaps the most important public service. That's why I've stressed in those board seminars where I've been, and that's why I'm going to focus on a broad range of competences in the boards that also include what you might call political competence. I think it would be almost impossible to imagine a model in which the state would be responsible for the Norwegian hospital system, while at the same time putting away the governance responsibility of a representative system of e.g. State politicians. Either the state is responsible for it, and then I meet as responsible to Stortinget, or it is the county municipality or another level that is responsible. But within the model we have, I think it's quite possible to have a completely different dialogue with both local trustees, that is. rapporteurs and rapporteurs, and with the general population as a whole as there have been a number of places. I feel that this has been somewhat improved in recent times, and I have at least as much as I could, underlined that dialogue with the government. This dialogue is absolutely necessary, because the main ombudsmen in our counties are rapporteurs, rapporteurs and representatives of the state and the big business. That is why I also have a very open door for the rapporteurs, the rapporteurs and the representatives of the great public in the individual cases that appear. But having a representative system based on the state's ownership becomes a curl that I doubt any government council will handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e304	I fully agree with the Council of State that when the State is the owner, the State must also be responsible. But the Labour Party has, for example, proposed that local government and county councils should have the right of proposal in the case of board representatives. Then it is the Council of State who is to appoint the regional governments, but when the appointment is to be made, there are some suggestions for good candidates from the county councils. In order to appoint the local health authorities, there are some proposals from the local health authorities on good representatives. Then regional health companies will see if they want to use the proposals or not. I think it's very strange that the government parties disagree with that. When the Council of State now says that he is busy looking at good dialogue with local and regional authorities, why is it that the government parties then vote down a proposal that county councils and local councils should at least have the right to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e311	I don't know if I fully understand, because the local government has a right to it today if they want to. I have – I think almost without exception – said when I have met local politicians and regional politicians that if they have strong views on the government representatives we have, or they have others that they think should be in, then please look at it on a sheet and send it to me. If you want to treat it as chairmanship or local government, you have the full opportunity. But a system where you systematically had to have primary choices in all the municipalities and counties of the country, I don't feel like it would be close to the need that someone sees related to democratic deficits. But I want to say that it's quite natural if someone has views on the composition of the board, that I get it. And I get it, so that when I'm going to have a business meeting in June to review the boards of the five regional health companies, I have a perm, a book, where I have noted the views that have come from everyone, including rapporteurs and county rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e318	There will be four follow-up questions – first Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e321	First, as regards the reasoning about the state that owns and thus also the right to rule, as the minister now said, I fully agree with that. But I'm going to try to clarify and clarify a little bit of the answer that the minister now gave to the role of municipalities and county councils. It is therefore very important that the governments of both regional health businesses and the others have strong confidence in the population, in local politicians and in us at national level. We then believe – and we have proposed in Stortinget in connection with the 2005 budget – that municipalities and county councils should have the right to propose candidates to these boards at the different levels. I think it will be a major improvement in the legitimacy of the regimes if this can be put into the system. Is it not true that it would only be positive that the Council of State knows that he has a number of good names to choose from when he is going to put together the boards of regional health establishments, while at the same time the regional health establishments also have that possibility attached to the subsidiaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e330	At least it is absolutely certain that it is only positive to have many suggestions, because it is often that when you put together many of these boards, there is a lack of commitment to assess the board members that are and, if necessary, the alternatives. Let me use this opportunity, if allowed, to encourage all the municipalities and county councils of the country who have views on who should sit on the boards of the five regional health companies to send a letter to the undersigned about it. It is good time, it is not until June that this will happen. I am still getting views on the work done by the Board of Regional Enterprises, both from individuals, from trade unions, from local politicians and also from big business representatives, and I note this, of course. This is what I will bring out in June when we are to re-nominate the Boards. I would simply like to take the opportunity to challenge the municipalities of the country to take such a review and make their views known. They have that right. A local government can initiate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e338	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e341	Firstly, a comment on what has been said here. Interestingly, the Workers' Party is now beginning to talk about the democratic deficit in the governance of our healthcare system, and it is good that we have at least begun to have that dialogue. But what the Labour Party is proposing here, almost a popular user council, is going to be a hostage representation system that we don't want. We want to have a real popular governance of our healthcare system. As the Minister of Health also said, this is one of the most important areas of society we have. But then I think the Minister of Health came with a strong recognition. He said that the current governments of healthcare companies had taken little inward that they should rule one of the most important areas of society we have. Then I think that the Minister of Health, as the General Assembly of these health businesses, must also take it inward for his own part and better manage it. The good dialogue could have been established a long time ago by the Minister of Health and this government. The good dialogue is lacking, and instead of having a dialogue, the Minister of Health must, among other things, Join the Radium Hospital and the Rikshospitalet here in Oslo. What will the Minister of Health do to make users more effective about the health system here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e350	The President must ask the representatives to respect the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e353	Finally, the question from the representative, Luttvold, was addressed to the users, and that is not the policy-makers – that is, some politicians are also users of health services. But we have a lot of attention for the users. It is for them that the health service is for, it is not for the politicians, it is for the users. And we've started phenomenal projects now that give you a completely different grip both with related organisations and user organisations. When it comes to popular governance or not, it's a fundamental question. I respect the fact that the Central Party has a different position as to who should rule. But that also means taking over the financial responsibility and ownership, we cannot have a combination of state responsibility and governance of others. As far as the dialogue is concerned, I almost dare say that there are not many state agencies that have as much dialogue with the users and local democracy as healthcare companies – naturally. But it can get better. It is also the case that in all regional health companies there are former politicians who have good knowledge of that part of Norwegian social life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e362	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e365	SV fully agrees with the Workers' Party's Bjarne Håkon Hanssen that today's health company model is an undemocratic model. Therefore, SV took the initiative to get a completely different model, a management model, which would place responsibility in the Stortinget, and that there would be elected bodies that defined the model. We received support from both the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The model we have today is the Workers' Party model, it has been adopted as a Health Business Model by the Workers' Party, proposed by a Workers' Party government and implemented with the support of the Right and Advance Party. It is good if we can get a fight about that model and get a change after the fall. But what is obviously possible is that with the model we have today, people-elected governance is guaranteed to a far greater extent than what we've done. The Council of State has every opportunity to formalise the adoption of national health plans determined by the Grand Duchy on the basis of a proposal from the Council of State to provide a structure for health services determined by the public. Will the Council of State contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e376	First, I want to say that I understand the underlying frustration of the representative Ballo. It is the Workers' Party which, in agreement with the Advancement Party, has designed the model we have today, which is now described as having a democratic deficit. But it can be said that it is also in the Vegvessen, in every state institution, one can say that it is a democratic deficit, because it is usually a Council of State, a member of a government responsible for the Stortinget, which governs the state agencies. I can't imagine the possibility that we could have a shared ownership and an unclear responsibility for these things. Therefore, it is relatively inconceivable to me that we should have elected bodies to have the governing authority in something for which the Minister of Health should be responsible at all times. I regard that as completely unmistakable for my part. But if you can draw other models, like SV goes in for, that's an alternative. I think it's a bad alternative, but it's an alternative. As for the model itself, I believe that there are things that should be changed, and it is quite important that we make some changes, otherwise I think an end in the mountain wall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e385	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e388	What the public out there is looking for is to get a good health offer and a good hospital, so that you actually get the treatment you need, when you need it. It is then quite obvious that health care companies have done a good job of reducing waiting times and getting to a system that allows you to get faster treatment and avoid being in line for a long time. That's what must be our focus. I think it is the politicians themselves who are most interested in this matter linked to the names of those who are to sit on the individual board. I think the people are more concerned about the problem: do I get help or not when I need it? That's where the focus must be. My question to the Council of State in this specific matter is: if you go on the system proposed by the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, you would not risk a large bureaucratic mill, for example. in a situation where the Council of State must cast the board and establish a new board, if one is to go out to all municipalities and county councils in order to have candidates?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e399	First, I want to say that I fully agree with the representative Nesvik that what people are concerned about is getting a health offer on the day they need it. I get about. ten letters a day, and I've saved everyone in a ringbarrow -- there's starting to be a lot of ringbarrows in the closet now. I cannot say that I have received one enquiry from one citizen who is calling for more politicians in the management of the healthcare system we have. [[Laughter]] I consider that to be completely absent. What you have to be concerned about is what health services we can make to the Norwegian people within the budget framework we have. That's what I'm following 24 hours a day. In the case of an alternative to receiving proposals for the general meeting, no seminar will be held after that, given that one should cast a board. It will be the Council of State that is accountable to Stortinget, because he is finally inserted. But more heads think better than few, we know that. That is why I call on the municipalities today to make such proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e410	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e414	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. The pump price for petrol is now well above NOK 11. Yes, in Tromsø we now actually have pump prices of nearly 12 kroner. When we know that total taxes on petrol amount to about 65 pst. of the pump price, and we are in a situation where, as a consequence of the high oil price, we now make more money than we expected when the budget was created, couldn't it be an idea to reduce the tax on petrol, so that this formidable surplus not only benefited the state treasury, but actually also the drivers through lower taxes? I would like to remind the Minister of Finance that in the autumn of 2000, we adopted a tax reduction with effect from 1 January, simply because the pump price for petrol was then as high as back in the 1950s.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e423	The current fuel charges, petrol, have been adopted with the support of the Progress Party. I have to say almost with the exception of Tromsø, because there is a special charge at the top that Stortinget has decided to grant permission to Tromsø Municipality, and I do not think the Progress Party was involved. But with the exception of Tromsø, we are responsible for all the prices that exist. We have a regular revision of the budget, and it is being revised. That's where we'll get back to the question. If you want to use any new means to improve well-being or lower taxes in this area or in other areas, the Government has not taken a stand. We will come back to that, and the Progress Party will have a considerable hand on the steering wheel there. I understand that the Progress Party really believes that they want a different system. They will have charges that vary with the international oil price, i.e. if the international market price of oil is low, the charges in Norway will be high, and vice versa. It's a system that Stortinget has previously rejected. I understand from the TV broadcasts this morning that the representative Jensen believes that such a system exists in France. It is unknown to the Ministry of Finance, but I do not know if we can get more information from the representative Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e432	I guess I'm asking questions. However, I can inform the Minister of Finance that the system was operating in France for several years and was called ‘TAPP flotante’. Maybe you could have a little chat with the French Ministry of Finance and figure it out. I also want to remind the Minister of Finance that he has been elected to this room on the Right Programme. The right has opted for a reduction in fuel taxes, which the Minister of Finance, when he was a prime minister, thought was too high. I register that he now does not mean what he is chosen for, and we just have to take note of that. However, the situation is that the Storting made a tax reduction four to five years ago when petrol prices increased sharply. So now the pump prices are significantly higher than they were at the time, and then I will find it natural to consider this issue in the context of the revision. I am aware that the Progress Party subsidized the State budget, but it was under an oil price assumption of NOK 230. So now the oil price is 340 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e439	Yeah, 335 kroner anyway. Now there have been a lot of French finance ministers in my time. They're going to disappear down there. However, the fact is that France had this forward-looking party scheme with flexible fees for two years, and then they abolished it – with broad support – because it had created very unpredictable conditions. So the scheme worked in France for two years. I would also like to quote from a comitology comment which I myself took on as a representative of big business, on the system proposed by the Progress Party: ‘... a charging system to ensure that ‘the selling price will not be changed as a result of changes in oil price’ is a step in the undesirable direction and involves a system that is very far from market economy thinking’. I think that was still very well said. We therefore did not want such a system, and we also received broad support in Stortinget. Whether we can assess things in the revised? The answer is yes. I have already said that in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e455	There will be follow-up questions – Per Erik Monsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e458	Studies show that due to high tax and tax pressures, and not least because of the high level of costs, the steady Norwegian does not have a particularly high real income available in the European context. In the context of the Government's wish for scattered settlement in our long-term country, with greater distances than in most other European countries, would it not be reasonable to consider doing something about the petrol and diesel taxes that will bring them down to a more reasonable level, thereby reducing the distance disadvantages instead of increasing them?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e465	Part of the question I have answered in the past, namely that the Progress Party is a budgetary partner and therefore, of course, will also be with the government parties to assess this in the revised version. But two things: one is that it is not in the districts the car is used the most. It is actually in connection with commuting in Oslo and Akershus you have the largest car use. But that doesn't change the fact that most people would like to think of a lower price in this area as well. However, since the representative himself mentioned available real income, I must point out that, in relation to real disposable income, the petrol price in Norway is among the lowest in Europe. But I understand that's not what you first think about when you stand by the pump and see that the price goes up in both 10 and 11 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e472	Let's move on to the next main question. If we get time, the last main question will be Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e477	In June 2001, the Stortinget dealt with emergency medical preparedness in Norway, the so-called emergency message. The majority of the Stortinget then adopted the following proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the Storting with an economic and timetable for strengthening the ambulance service based on the Committee’s response time proposals.’ Not until Friday before Easter did the Ministry of Health come with regulations for the ambulance service in Norway — almost four years afterwards — starting on 1 April. That in itself is reason to charge. But in this regulation, there's nothing about response time. It says, however, that you can have an ambulance service that deviates from this with a presence where there are a low number of emergency peaks per person. years and where personnel may be at the ambulance within a reasonable time after the call. Response time means a lot. That's what all doctors say. It also says SINTEF in his report. I want to ask the Minister of Health: why have the Ministry of Health and the Government not taken this seriously? And does not the Minister of Health think that something should be done about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e489	In the case of emergency medical services outside hospitals, there has been a raging trend in recent years. It's just looking at some of today's new ambulances, not to mention ambulance helicopters, and what they contain. It's almost like a local hospital compared to the ambulance service you had a relatively short time ago. We have in the work we have done on this regulation, considered other things as more important than minute fixing the response time. We've assessed the dietary benefits of these things. The assessment has been that the medical gains in this respect are disproportionate to the hundreds of millions it will cost, and that there is a greater health benefit by using them as an alternative to healthcare. The most important part of this regulation may be coordination between all stages of the acute medical chain. It's been the most important thing. There has been coordination and interaction between fire services, police, main rescue centres and health services, and, of course, the ambulance service itself has been a weak link. It has not been sufficiently qualified. Too many of those who have been employed here have not had the necessary medical skills, and some of them have almost appeared as drivers in a van. That's the way it used to be. This has changed over the year. The emergency medical service has, as far as I know, never been close to being as good as it is today, although there are some fewer ambulances than before, but we've put other things into focus. With regard to this regulation which came into force on 1 April, it has come after long and nitite processes in the Social and Health Directorate where, as the representative mentioned, Sintef, and, of course, many others from outside have been involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e500	I think the Minister of Health was more concerned with describing past misery than giving a clear view on what should be done better in the future. When he says there are fewer ambulances, it is known to me that almost every four ambulances have disappeared after the health care companies came into operation. That response time means a lot, at least I'm sure. That view is shared among others. by professor of emergency medicine at Ullevål University Hospital, Steen, who says that 250 human lives could be saved if the ambulance had been three minutes faster out in the patient. Then it's just minutes! I believe that as set out here in the regulation, diet-benefit is in a cynical way. Food use has also been used differently from that of the population living in the centre of Norway, compared to those living on the outskirts. This is a district issue, like so many other issues, where the government prioritises quite cynically – one life is not as much worth the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e510	I take a completely fundamental distance from the word used by the representative of Lutvold, related to weighing the value of a life one geographic place up to a life somewhere else. That, I think, is such an unworthy way of attacking this issue that I almost cannot express it. Everyone knows that the distance to the site of acute treatment is important. We know that you live one kilometer from a hospital, the survival in an emergency is much greater than if you live five miles from the hospital. So despite that, someone chooses to live five miles away. It will always be that the response time will be different. Then it is quite right that the representative for Luttvold emphasises, that the response time has a great impact on the survival potential. But what I have considered to be the most important thing is the content of the ambulance that comes out, the competence of the people who are going to take care of it in a place of injury, and the coordination that they have. The 250 million. kr, which was the cost of the option, was considered not to give the health effect as the option chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e519	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e522	It has been seen that there are particularly three factors that are crucial for a good and well-functioning ambulance service. One is the qualifications of the ambulance staff and that there are actually two on each car, just to be able to assist each other with treatment in addition to one driving. The second is the equipment, both that the cars are suitable for their intended use and that they are equipped in a manner that is technically sound and in line with current medical requirements. The third is, of course, the response time, that is. the time it takes to reach the patient who is ill and the time it takes to get the patient back into the ambulance with proper personnel to the treatment unit. That's why it's not important to evaluate how long it takes, that is, how long it takes to respond. This, of course, does not mean that, everywhere in Norway, one can manage to achieve such a goal, but if one does, one will also see where more resources need to be deployed. Does the Council of State look like the description I'm giving here, that these are the factors that it's important to be clear and to monitor, so that you can target the measures where there's a greater need for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e535	The three premises underpinning such an assessment as the representative of Ballo refers to are essential for the patient’s actions. What we've tried in this approach here is to strike a balance between these three things, what we're going to set in terms of the competences of those who are coming, and the training they have to deal with it, also with others in the emergency situations, but the response time is obviously crucial in many cases. We definitely have to look at the effects of what we've done now, and what that relationship is, whether it needs to be adjusted to. Well, it turns out that we've put too little emphasis on one thing over the other. This may also prove to be a proper priority within the resource frameworks that are realistic in terms of prehospital services. I feel quite sure that this is based on a very good professional basis. But if the evaluation was to show something else, of course, I'm not just willing to, but I want to be very active in making the changes that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e544	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e547	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. ‘ – If you agree that there is a need to create a pension scheme that allows us to afford other welfare tasks in the future, some people will necessarily have to get worse’, said the Minister of Finance's political adviser in today's Business before the weekend. This'some' is not'some' - there are a lot. That's 70 pst. by the women of the country and 40 pst. of the country's men who come out worse with the government's model of a modernized popular peace that is being treated in the Storting. SV has received this evidence in response from the department, and it is the model itself that has such a sloppy distribution profile, as a sloppy woman profile as I say. So there are no proposals for sharing, indexing or the best-year rule that the media debate has gone on to create this. Reforms should do things better, but does the Minister of Finance think that the model he has presented improves future pensions for the country's women?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e563	Yes! Keeping up with today's popular fear is no alternative. In a few years’ time – and fortunately one can say about the representative, Grande Røys, that she has a better chance of being an active politician than me – Norway will not be able to pay for a social security system, and then the women will get out worse anyway. Or, in another way, if you don't do anything with today's popular security, it will mean a solid privatisation of social security liability, because many will then seek private schemes rather than public. It also weakens the situation of women. Experience has shown that men come out better, have more private arrangements and are usually higher in pay. The opinion of my adviser that someone has to get worse needs to be seen, of course, in the context of unaltered popular fear. But that's not an option. The SV's model of the Pension Commission has been assessed in the Government's communication, including: by Professor Rødseth, and it is very well documented that the SV model for modernised public health provides significantly lower labour incentives than Modernised public health. Three out of four workers will be given better work incentives under Modernised public health. What about the remaining 24 pst?? 19 pst. of these will have about the same work incentives in the two models, while only between 4 and 5 pst. will have some significant improvement through SV’s proposals. So overall: To join the ‘workline’ – to use it in quotation form – the SV model is a very bad contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e574	I hope that the Minister of Finance has not perceived today's popular security as an option for SV. On the contrary, what the Minister of Finance says is our universal popular security that is our proposal. The point is that she gives labour incentives to those who have free employment, women and low pay, those who work part-time, and those who are not in the labour market today. That's what we need in the future, and it's the workforce that comes out best with SV's model, not with the government's model. The government's model gives NOK 47,000 more in retirement annually for a man with very good income, probably in full employment and so on, while a low-paid woman will lose NOK 3000. It shows the tables that SV got from the Government. I can't believe the finance minister thinks it's inviting women to increase their job supply and invite women to continue working, using the model that the government has presented. Does the Minister of Finance really think that this is inviting women to contribute to the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e579	Yes. Because SV's model, when you analyze it more closely, has a very poor distribution profile. This can be illustrated by the following: In the evening post recently, SV’s manager was out and promised NOK 20 000 in increased minimum pension. With SV's model, such a promise would be far, far more expensive to fulfill for a government than for today's system. It will increase the cost of such a step-up of the minimum pension dramatically, compared to Modernised population protection, as it is impossible in SV’s model to increase the minimum pension for those with the lowest pension without also increasing the pension for those with high earnings – hence much less the distribution effect of increasing the minimum pension as recently addressed by SV’s leader, applied to SV’s own model.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e584	The time for the oral question procedure is short, and unfortunately we do not raise follow-up questions. So we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e593	The President may inform the representatives that there are currently no changes to the list of questions drawn up, so it would be relatively easy to follow in the order.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e600	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘According to Fredrikstad Blad on 2 March this year, the Council of State states that the inhabitants of Fredrikstad ‘must protest and lodge complaints. People have to know their right and not simply find themselves paying the increased property tax." Through the county council, the municipalities are asked to make use of their income opportunities when the municipalities are in financial imbalances. What does the Council of State mean by encouraging people through the newspapers not to respect legitimate decisions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e609	As the paper says, I got a question from the journalist on what advice I had to those who think they have got too high a price on their home. To that I replied that they must use the right of appeal provided by the law, and that is something other than to urge not to respect legal decisions. It is such that access to a complaint for a tax is governed by Section 33 of the Property Tax Act. Fredrikstade municipality is in the ROBEK register, i.e. that the municipality is in financial imbalance. I am concerned that municipalities in financial imbalances will take the necessary steps to get the local economy settled. The county shall ensure that the municipality complies with an obligatory plan in order to achieve an economic balance. The county shall not grant a discretionary grant to the municipality because of a poor economy without being linked to an obligatory migration plan. The content of the conversion is entirely the responsibility of the municipality, but the balance requirements are clear and, in fact, determined by the Stortinget Act in municipal law. Property tax is a voluntary municipal tax. The county may not require the municipality to impose property taxes. The guidelines for the award of discretionary grants have been clearly amended at this point. Thus, the county cannot require the use of income opportunities. There was a demand from previous governments – this government does not. Whether a municipality will introduce property taxes or make adjustments on the cost side of balancing is up to each municipality to decide. My concern is that the introduction of property taxes can easily become a sleeping cushion for the municipality to take the necessary action on the cost side. And Fredrikstad will receive a very high proportion of its income from property taxes, compared to other municipalities. An increase in revenue by 150 pst. from an already high level says clearly this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e625	I thank you for your answer. The municipal minister used the term ‘they have to protest’ and it has been perceived as a general protest against such an increase, not just a natural right to take advantage of the right to appeal. The municipal minister also said in the interview, which she partly repeated here, that it was necessary to take the necessary steps to settle the municipal economy of municipalities in an economic imbalance. Fredrikstad Municipality has been doing this ever since the municipal association, i.e. for over ten years now. The mayor should be aware of that. In the county's annual report for 2004, the county of Eastfold writes: ‘The municipalities find that there is an imbalance between the expectations of the inhabitants and the ability of the municipalities to meet them. This may go beyond the legitimate demands of citizens on services, and it is demanding for the county to provide guidance on the needs, needs and opportunities of municipalities.’ These are the real problems and the background that Fredrikstade has thus seen the need to increase the property tax considerably. There is an imbalance between the level and level of expenditure and the level of revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e641	I will be allowed to quote from the newspaper notice to which reference is made. Here I get the question: ‘What advice do you have for those who think they have been given too high a price on their homes?’ My answer to that is: ‘They must protest and lodge complaints. People have to know their right and not simply find themselves paying the increased property tax." So that's what it's referred to. It's in line with what the law actually says, that there's a right to apply for justice. I would like to remind you that the property tax income of Fredrikstad Municipality, which is increasing by 150 pst. through this taxing, is more than three times higher than the increase in the budget that Fredrikstad would have received with the Workers' Party's alternative budget. So it's like the challenges would be there with all of the other options. Not even the Central Party, which has the highest municipal structure here in Stortinget, would have had the money to prevent an increase in property tax, without having to be adjusted in the majority budget in Fredrikstad. I record that other parties in the municipality of Fredrikstad believe that they can balance with other measures, without increasing the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e658	Now the final property tax rate is reduced by 20 pst. Compared to the figures of the local government, the increase is still strong, but not so strong. I hope the Mayor is willing to acknowledge what the County Council says in its Annual Report, namely that for the municipalities of Eastfold, and also elsewhere in the country, there is an imbalance between the level of expenditure and the overall level of income. I hope the Mayor is willing to take this with him when we are now working on a revision of the income system. The two changes made under this government, changes in social criteria and the return of company taxes to the municipalities, have reduced the income of the municipality of Fredrikstad in the order of approximately Twenty million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e665	We have made changes to the income system, such as: help to improve the ability of the larger municipalities to deal with major mental and social problems in their municipalities. We have made changes in relation to making a healthier basis for the municipality to be left with revenues to facilitate business activities. At the same time, there has been a slowdown in the so-called special discretionary grant that has been left after the Rattsø conversion, which has meant that Fredrikstade Municipality has actually received some escalation of the transfers during that period. I agree that there is a need to do more things in the income system. That is why I have suggested that we have a revision of the income system as such. But the big fundamental issue, which is going to be crucial for all parties, is whether to make the changes that require the removal of the regional policy elements of the income system. I have not experienced that the Workers' Party has been on the track for, on the contrary. In the past, they have fought against the kind of changes that would have given Fredrikstad a more equitable income system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e676	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘The member of the Board of Directors of the FrP of the Vinmonopole Business Assembly required transparency in the minutes of the Board in order to be able to carry out its supervisory duties under the Wine Monopoly Act. The claim was not met. According to a letter from the Council of State to Carl I. Hagen, the individual members of the company meeting are not entitled to information other than answers to questions asked at the meeting. How does the Council of State feel that members should be able to carry out their supervisory duties without knowing what matters the Board of Directors is dealing with, and consequently what questions need to be asked?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e685	The members of the Business Assembly of the Vinmonopolet Group are briefed on the matters dealt with by the Board of Directors of the Vinmonopolet, by the Management Committee of the Company. This consists of members elected by and among the members of the business meeting. The Committee shall routinely review the minutes of the Management Board. The business meeting is then briefed on the governance issues through a report from the control committee. The reports are discussed at the meetings of the business meeting. In this way, the works council of the wine monopoly will at all times be aware of the matters dealt with by the Management Board and may use this as a basis for exercising its supervisory functions. With regard to the right of access to administrative protocols, it is necessary to distinguish, on the one hand, between the types of information that members of the business meeting may require and, on the other hand, the rules governing the procedure of supervision. The law gives each member of the business meeting the right to require all types of information from the board of directors involved in the operation of the company. The only premise laid down by law is that the information in question is provided at a meeting of the business meeting, so that all members of the business meeting have access to the same information. Whereas, on the other hand, provision should be made for the procedure for the operation of the Management Board, including the decision on the manner in which information is to be provided by the Management Board; Therefore, if the business meeting as a body decides to do so, the Governing Board is obliged to deliver governance protocols to the members of the business meeting. In the specific cases that prompted the letter from the Progress Party’s big group, and the letter of response from me to which the representative Nesvik referred in his question, the member of the works council from the Progress Party was not denied access to any information he has requested under the law, but he has had to bow to the decision taken by the business meeting as regards the procedure for supplying the information. The Chairman and Head of the Business Meeting have informed the following about the proceedings in relation to the specific matters: After the Management Board had informed the meeting of the business meeting, the minutes were made available to the members of the Business Meeting at the meeting, and the minutes were subsequently made available at the premises of the Vinmonopolet. It is the company meeting itself that has decided that the relevant protocols should not be distributed to the individual members of the company meeting, and after I have been informed, the reason for this is that the protocols contained very sensitive information. Finally, I would like to stress that the system of supervisory activities of the works council established by the decision of the Stortingen of the Wine Monopoly Act and the practice of the works council provide the works council and its individual members with all the means necessary to carry out their supervisory task in an appropriate and reassuring manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e700	According to Section 9 of the Wine Monopoly Act, what the Council of State here pointed out is that it is the individual member of the works council who has this right. Then it's strange that you can go to the stage where the company meeting, that is to say, as a meeting, cares about whether or not each member should have access to the things they ask for. In that case, it is with respect that it is not properly notified that each member is given access to the information he wishes to exercise his control task. This is quite daunting, because what is the purpose of us having this type of control body, when it actually functions cleanly as an election committee to appoint a control committee against the board? I hope, and I want to ask, that the Council of State carry out a review of whether the members of the business meeting actually feel that they have the control function that they are supposed to have under the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e707	There is reason to recall that the Wine Monopoly Act has been adopted by the Stortinget and that the text of the Act states: «Each member may, at the meeting of the company meeting, require information on the operation of the company in so far as they deem it necessary.» And that's, as I can judge, followed in the specific case that was mentioned here. I would also like to say that it is important to have control bodies in a state enterprise, and not least in a state monopoly company, which works satisfactorily. For this reason, it is important that the business meeting also has a control committee that goes through all governance protocols and reports to the business meeting on its review and thus gives the other members of the business meeting the full opportunity to enter into the work of the board. So I think these are arrangements that should be able to function satisfactorily, but of course they must be followed up in practice in the organs of the monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e719	As long as a member of the company meeting has actually expressed the feeling that this is not working satisfactorily in relation to being able to carry out their control task, the signal is already given that you feel that there is something to look at here. It is interesting to read in this regard what the director of the board writes in his assessment to the ministry: ‘It is true that, as Chairman of the Board of Directors of this meeting, I stated that it was not desirable for the Board of Directors to send personal data protocols out of the company’s premises. However, as mentioned at the outset, I am aware that the business meeting as a body may impose this on the board of directors.» What's interesting is that the supervisory board has been added to each member of the business meeting and not to the assembly as a body, and that's the part I've asked the council to take a closer look at, so that all members of the business meeting feel that they have access to the information they're going to, and not just after a meeting, but actually along the way, in order to do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e731	It is a fact that, in this specific case, the minutes were made available to the members of the business meeting at the meeting and have been available afterwards. But what the representative Nesvik is now saying is precisely the point of the rules that you have, that it should be possible for each member to request in the meeting the information that you want about the company's operation. However, it shall also be available to all members of the business meeting. That's why you have the code you have, and I think that's right. Each member has a responsibility, but it is also important that the body be able to exercise its responsibilities on the same basis, factually, to which individual members are given access.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e742	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘In the Ski World Cup in Oberstdorf, the Norwegian team made great success with a total of 19 medals, of which seven gold. Many of the practitioners have a background from the country lines of secondary schools. The Government proposed to remove the subsidy for these lines in the 2005 budget. The majority of the Stortinget, however, ensured the operation of the lines for the first half of this year, but the offer is still in danger of being closed to the harvest. Will the Council of State change its view and go in order for the shorelines to receive subsidies for the harvest as well?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e751	In the revised national budget, the Government will make proposals for an increase in appropriations so that the system of landlines can be continued with the extent it currently has. This is a follow-up, among other things. by the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party. At the same time, we are working on sustainable solutions that can better respond to the current needs of landlines and which can create greater predictability. I remember in this connection that it is not the first time it has been proposed cut on the landlines. In the government’s proposal for the 2002 state budget, Stoltenberg was granted a grant of around 140 million. kr, proposed liquidation in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e758	I thank you for your answer. Now it was said by the Council of State that she would look at lasting solutions, i.e. changes in the potential also in the future. The problem with these lines is that you live almost six months to six months. Now it's the first time we in Stortinget hear from the Government that they want to reconsider their view of cutting off the grant from the harvest. We know it from the media, too, after this question was raised. But the deadline for applying for these schools expired on 1 March for a very large number of students, and when the deadline for applying expired, the counties were unsure whether this offer was at all possible. And that kind of uncertainty creates problems and difficulties not only for those who are planning what school services you are going to have, but not least for students who are planning on which study services they are going to apply for. So my question is, how will the Council of State ensure that you get the necessary security so that you can have long-term planning within this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e765	I agree that it is unfortunate that there is unforeseeable, and that is where we have a common responsibility, because former Minister of Education Giske himself has contributed to it before he left, by proposing a total cut on the landlines. I believe that we must now create this predictability by maintaining this system, but at the same time we are working towards better arrangements, and I think there is a broad consensus that there are better arrangements. I would like to point out some possibilities – for the first system of nationwide lines, which is an excellent system, where the states cooperate on small and rare offers that you cannot have in each state. You can imagine obliging guest student settlement. You can also imagine freer school choices across the county boundaries, where there are agreements between the counties. In this connection, I allow myself to refer to an odelstningsproposition that the Government has recently promoted for Stortinget, which deals with a home, among other things. for freer school choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e772	Then I thank you for the answer, but I was almost less calm now than I was after the first answer, so I really regret myself a little because I asked follow-up questions. Because now you're talking again about nationwide lines, you're talking about county settlements, etc. In other words, the idea is that the earmarked state subsidy for the landlines should be phased out and entered into a county council. I should like it confirmed by the Council of State, if that's correctly understood. These are pretty narrow lines, there's not so many top athletes we have in Norway. It is not possible for each state to make this offer, and it is a very practical arrangement. It is also linked to the county economy, which in many places is perceived as being very intrusive. We know, for example. the private upper secondary schools have a solid and secure source of income directly from the State. And I want to ask the State Council if she thinks it's reasonable that the public offer, which is to be free and accessible to everyone, should be so much less funded than the private high-school sports gym.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e779	The Government has not proposed to liquidate this grant to landlines. It is the former Minister of Education Trond Giske and the Stoltenberg government that have done. We proposed a reduction, but this was partially reversed by Stortinget, while the Progress Party and the government parties agreed that we should come back to the matter, and we do so now. I confirm that we will reverse the rest of this cut in revision to create predictability. So I say that we aim to maintain this arrangement. But I believe that the system as a system is not so good for the purpose, namely small and rare offers that not every state can cover up. There I believe there are other arrangements that work better, and we can also work towards arrangements that have not seen the light of day until now. I have a good dialogue with the county councils, among others. represented by County Councillor Roger Ingebrichsen, on how the counties can discuss themselves between themselves until permanent arrangements which, on a lasting basis, create greater predictability. But until we get there, I say that we want to reverse the remaining cut, which is considerably less than the former Minister of Education Giske himself suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e790	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘In response to the opinion of the United Nations Committee on Human Rights on the CRL subject, the Government has proposed a number of changes to the subject. The Government’s decision has indicated that the changes need to strengthen teachers’ skills and that they will start developing their skills immediately when a new curriculum is available. The amendments will be implemented in the autumn of 2005. What will the Ministry do specifically to ensure that teachers have greater competence in the field?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e799	In order to follow up the opinion of the UN Committee on Human Rights, the Government has decided to propose amendments to the provisions of the Training Act on the CRL subject and on exemptions from part of the training. It is also decided to develop a new curriculum in the field as part of the work on new curricula in the context of the Knowledge Lift. Both processes are in progress. The CRL subject shall be disseminated through varied and engaging working methods, in the same way as all other subjects in initial training. Working methods that some may consider to be close to religious practice require special caution on the part of teachers. It is important to meet individual students through appropriate training. Many suggest that there are practices in schools that determine whether education in the CRL field fulfils human rights. Developing skills for teachers is an important tool for improving school practice. The government will therefore invest in specific empowerment measures to improve the capacity of schools to teach in accordance with the CRL subject’s intentions. In this work, there are two aspects that need to be taken care of. Universities and colleges must have the opportunity to make offers, and the school owners must have the opportunity to allow teachers to make use of the offers. The size has adhered to the Government’s proposal to invest in a significant leverage to achieve the key objectives announced in St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning. Both better adapted training and new curricula are among the priority areas. As the CRL plan is implemented before the other curricula, the Government will consider accelerating the use of state resources in the CRL field. I would like to see this done, among other things. return to the ordinary budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e812	I thank you for the answer, and it is very encouraging that you want to speed up this process, because you can see that this should start already this fall. KRL is a relatively new subject, and I agree that developing the skills of teachers is important to strengthen school practice in the CRL. The fact that the Government will now focus on empowerment measures, especially for the CRL, is positive. But e.g. The revision will not come until May and will be adopted in June, and we know that summer holidays will come. And then the teachers are going to be ready in August for a new curriculum that has been adopted to be used already then, one year before the others. Teachers need to know what they're going to, they rely on security to be good teachers and to have knowledge of their profession. What's in the curriculum is a lot to take into account -- be a meeting place, etc. When can the KRL teachers become familiar with the provision of continuing training? How will the Department make known to the schools and also to the school owners that it will be invested in the CRL teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e819	We must be quite open here to the fact that we have a little bad time – a little innocent time as a result of this UN Committee opinion. Because we wanted to meet it as soon as possible, i.e. that we will implement a new curriculum from the autumn of 2005. This curriculum has come no further than the fact that it is now being consulted. So we can't hide this. But I want to add that this is now open out and can be judged by anyone. In addition, substantial funds have already been allocated to this leverage, 500 million. kr has already been granted for 2005. We have a well-established network in which 18 universities and colleges participate and provide continuing education in the CRL field, and these naturally closely follow up on what is happening in the wake of the UN Committee's opinion. We have a good competence development strategy, which is a kind of contract between department, KS and teacher and school leader organisations on how to now implement this level of competence. So I see it so that it will be possible to come back to this not only in relation to ordinary budgets, but among other things. in the ordinary budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e828	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that it is outside the colleges now and also through this network that it is going to be invested in the KRL subject. But it is also up to the municipalities to assess what teachers need for competence. The government says that a wanting a merging CRL subject, and that today's distribution of central learning material is maintained. And then there's to be liberalism in relation to parents' desire for adapted training. So school-home cooperation is very important here – knowing homes also makes teachers safer in their role. It is said that parental and minority rights are respected in accordance with Norway’s international obligations, in order to simplify the right of exemption. How, then, will the Ministry ensure that school-home cooperation is also part of the teacher's level of competence and that it comes out directly to the school owners, possibly in circular form or by other means, that it is now important to focus on a new plan in the CRL field?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e835	It is clear that information measures of a different nature to both school owners and homes, etc., need to be implemented. in the context of the new situation with the CRL subject. I also think in terms of skills development for the CRL, that practice is very important, and included in practice, I would say that the dialogue with the home is very important. Now, it has traditionally been that much of the development of competence that has taken place in schools has been offered, in the sense that it has taken the continuing training that has been offered. Now we have agreed with the organisations that there should be more demand-driven, i.e. according to the needs of the school in question. But in this case, I'm going to assume that this network is so competent to manage a lot of this development of competence that the dialogue will probably be good between schools and teachers who need it, and this network.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e846	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research, which reads as follows: ‘Children and young people are under undue pressure to use drugs. It is important, therefore, that the school takes a clear responsibility in its drug - prevention work. It is also important that schools, together with parents and professionals, address children and young people at risk of drug abuse. Will the Council of State agree that drug abuse should be given its own chapter in the new curriculum, so that the theme comes more concretely on the agenda and becomes more committed to the schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e855	I agree with the Bastesen representative that attitudes towards drugs and drugs are an important area to work with for all schools and students. This includes, inter alia: incorporated in the consultation drafts on curricula for natural and social sciences. The proposals were drawn up by the Directorate-General for Education and sent to the hearing on 10 May. How drugs and drugs are going to be discussed in the curriculum, I cannot therefore say anything at all until the consultation is completed. What is certain is that drug abuse and drug-prevention work should be carried out in a way that makes this a commitment to the schools. In addition, I would also like to refer to the educational poster, which contains basic obligations that apply to all schools and training places. It says, among other things. the school should help teachers to become role models for children and young people and it should be ensured that training promotes health, well-being and learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e860	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's just been a police raid at Sogn High School. It is a pleasure for the police to take the trouble seriously in the schools. It is serious that the school authorities have not taken this problem seriously much earlier. Shouldn't the political authorities have alerted and taken action much earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e867	I don't want to say that the action referred to here is a sign that the school hasn't taken this seriously. It might as well be a sign of a lot of other conditions in society. But it is clear that schools may also need increased skills in this area. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Government has its own action plan on drug problems, and there is a separate action plan on prevention at school. In addition, the Education Directorate and the Social and Health Directorate are now working together to develop a knowledge platform for drug education in schools. It could help and also help to prevent drug problems within and outside school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e872	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Today, students are under considerable pressure to use drugs, especially just outside school. What does the Council of State intend to do to ensure that parents can feel confident that students who go from home to school are not under pressure to use drugs?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e879	There may be a pressure in society on the use of drugs and drug abuse, but I don't want to give the school special responsibility for it or say that there's a lot going on in schools. We don't have any evidence to say that, so it has to be in society in general. Nor can it be said that the school has sole responsibility to prevent these kinds of problems. Here parents also have a responsibility, and society for the rest, i.e. other public bodies. A number of actions are likely to be referred to here, including: In the government action plan on drug problems outside the school area, and here I do not have detailed knowledge, because it is up to other government councils to have. However, with regard to schools, they should also have knowledge, they should also contribute, and of course not only to avoid the presence of drugs and drug abuse in schools, but also to prevent the dissemination of competences to students. Here I believe we contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e888	The question is as follows: ‘Main training in Norway is now characterised by many and major changes. In such a process, good information to, and communication with, the central actors in basic education is important: students, teachers, school owners and parents. Parents are the weakest organised and cared for group. But parents have primary responsibility for the education of their children, including education. How will the Council of State strengthen parental influence in basic education in order to ensure good parental participation in school change processes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e897	It is true that the promise of knowledge involves many changes in school, and it is particularly important that parents get good information about what the reform involves so that they can follow their children in school everyday. As regards information on the reform, the Knowledgelift has its own website. In addition, the Ministry’s, Education’s and Parent’s websites provide information on the reform. I have also attended large information meetings around the country. In October, I informed about the reform at a large meeting of municipal parents, and during the January–March period, I have held six large information meetings in the evenings around the country for students, parents, teachers and other interested people. There has been a good deal of excitement about these meetings, and there has been an opportunity for questions and answers at each meeting. Written questions have also come to the ministry from engaged parents after the meetings, and of course we have answered them. All the new curricula have been sent to an open hearing, and there is full opportunity for parents to deliver hearing opinions by the deadline of 10 May. On the first Monday, a separate information brochure is sent to all parents on the consultation process. Both the Education Directorate and the Parental Committee for Primary School have published their curriculum drafts and information on the consultation process on their websites. Parents wishing to give a hearing opinion may either do so as an individual or use the existing bodies, such as the parents' job selection at each school or municipal parental committee, if it is established in the municipality. In recent years, all first-rate parents have received a brochure at the start of school informing them about the rights and duties of schools, parents and students. This leaflet is also to be issued in the autumn of 2005. In addition, the Ministry, in consultation with the Parental Committee for Primary Schools, shall send information to all parents with primary school children on the extent to which the reform has come in the autumn of 2005 and on its impact on pupils. Of course, we will also consider the kind of needs in the coming years after the reform takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e908	I thank the Council of State for the answer, pointing out that many important and correct things have been done and will be done. I would like to stress that the process of change also goes beyond the very introduction of new curricula. Not least, there is an important part that comes when new curricula are in place. So for follow-up: that's how many changes happen especially in high school. In connection with St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004 it was correct that the majority of the majority of the population stopped the Government’s proposal to remove the parental council, but there was no stop order for the Government not to further develop and strengthen cooperation between home, school and pupils at individual and school levels for secondary education. Has the Government forgotten or abandoned the work of developing and strengthening cooperation in home-schooling for parents with high school students? The question of follow-up is, therefore, particularly given that there are major changes specifically in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e917	I think that is a correct and important point of view – of course, students and parents related to secondary school also need to be informed about the reform. Now, as the reform is gradually being implemented, the needs will be slightly different. But it's an important reminder in and on its own, because I have the impression that there's quite variable cooperation with parents in high school. At the same time, I have the impression that it works very positively for the school where it is good. I also remind you that the Stortinget has decided, on a proposal from the Government, that the so-called educational plaque, which is a basic quality obligation for schools and training places – as binding as the curricula for subjects – is now to apply both to primary and secondary education, while the old so-called Bridge, which was, as it were, the same place in the curricula, was only to primary school. The cooperation at home-school is also mentioned. This means that it is the responsibility of the school in this respect. So I'm taking this with me as a useful and important reminder.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e924	I thank you for your attendance at that point. My second follow-up is directed towards the Parental Committee for Primary School, i.e. the national body which is responsible for the interests of individual parents on a national basis. In the context of the 2005 budget, the Government’s proposal to amend the location and mandate of the Parental Committee for Primary Schools was suspended by a majority. While it is enjoyable, it is equally full that the Parental Committee for Primary School has a central role to play in the process of change that is now to be carried out, and it is a major task for an existing national body. It does not have the resource allocation reflected in any way. My follow-up question to the Council of State is how she will ensure that a continued parental selection for primary school, with the same mandate and the same location as before, will also be able to fulfil its important role in the process of change currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e933	Let me just make it clear that although there was a slightly divergent view of the organisation of parental cooperation and the freedom of the municipalities in this regard, there is no disagreement about the goal, that we want parents who are engaged and have influence in the school. I also want to add that I experience it so that we have a very good cooperation with the Parental Committee for Primary School, which is relatively recently established by this government. I note that the representative, Mr Sortevik, is concerned with the allocation of resources to the Parental Committee for Primary Schools in connection with the great promise of knowledge, that it will also be given increased and important tasks, and that I take with me as a view that I will seriously consider in the ordinary budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e940	Question 7 also goes to the Minister of Education and Research, who has received a lot of questions today — but this is the last in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e943	It's all right, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e952	This shows that the Council of State manages an important department! I have the following questions: ‘According to a study carried out by the Council of Culture Schools, 25 000 children are in line for a cultural school place. At the same time, the differences in parental payment are increasing. 60 of the registered municipalities charge more than NOK 2000 per person. student space. Some municipalities charge more than NOK 3 500 per person. Possible values are: space, space, space. Does the Council share the concern that increasing disparities may threaten the objective of making room for everyone who wants to participate in the cultural schools and that there will be increasing differences in the ability to achieve cultural competence, and what will she do to meet these developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e963	Designation of the music and cultural schools grant was removed from 1 January 2004. At the same time, these funds were put into the framework of the municipalities. According to the information system of the Primary School, which is a statistical database to which the municipalities themselves report, the number of children participating in the offer of music and culture schools has increased from 103 000 in the 2003–2004 school year to 107 000 in the 2004–2005 school year. It is therefore important to point out that while waiting lists are available to enter the music and cultural schools, the capacity of schools has increased. The maximum parental payment rate was unchanged at NOK 1 600 from 1993 to 2004. If this rate had followed the general price increase, it would have been NOK 2 161 in 2005. According to the Norwegian Council of Culture Schools, the survey is not completed and the figures in it are also not quality assured. However, GSI statistics show that in the 2004–2005 school year there is only one municipality that costs more than DKK 3 500 per year. student place, and 21 municipalities that charge more than NOK 2000. The GSI also shows that the average payment rate for the 2004–2005 school year is DKK 1500 per year. student placement, an increase of NOK 234 from the previous year. I do not think this shows a trend towards increasing differences in the cultural skills of Norwegian children, but I will of course follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e972	The study of the Council of Culture Schools is based on a study of 71 pst. by the municipalities of the country, so we are wise to take this seriously. It shows a trend towards increasing differences in parental pay and that too many are in line. This means two things: first, that one is far away from the goal of being a cultural school space of 30 pst. by primary school students, a goal also to the Right joined in the processing of the message «Not Just to Light» and, secondly, that there will be more people who cannot afford a cultural school place. It means less access to cultural competence. It will be important and dramatic for the future. Because in the future there will be an increasing demand for cultural competence. Do the Councils agree with the importance of cultural competence? And if she is: To achieve the goals set by the Storting, action is needed. Can the Council of State assess the lawfulness of the right to cultural education with the roof of the parental payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e979	I believe that there is no basis for drawing the conclusions that are drawn here. So the grant and ear tagging were removed from 1 January 2004. That's about. one and a half years ago. We have official Norwegian statistics from the primary school information system. I think I have. The Ministry has been in contact with the Norwegian School of Culture Council and has been confirmed that this study has not been completed. We then note that there are more children in the cultural school now than it was last year and that the average price of the student places is still below the maximum rate until 2004. So I don't think that's the basis for drawing these conclusions. When it comes to the kind of action proposed by the representative here, my answer is that it is not relevant for this government. We appreciate local democracy. I believe that if we don't allow anything to be left to the local politicians, there is really no local democracy. I trust that the sense is roughly the same, and that there is a lot of sense in the individual local government to take care of the cultural school. This also indicates developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e986	I agree that the municipalities have taken their responsibility. It is the state that did not take its responsibility until the earmarked grants were put into the framework. I am aware that it was something like believing in Christmas Eve to wait for a positive answer to my question about action. It shows that there is a need for a change of government. A red-green government has committed itself to providing cultural schools for those who wish to do so – what the government parties have also participated in. I think the Council of State debats the study that the Council of Culture Schools has done. I was at a conference a little while ago where there were several representatives of the Councils of Cultural Schools who could report that there were parents who had now pulled their kids out of the cultural schools because they couldn't afford to let them go there. But now let it go. The Council of Culture Schools is, of course, a centre of competence, and the Council of Culture Schools has developed regulations that can remedy the situation now. Is the Council of State at all willing to consider the regulations developed by the Council of Culture Schools, i.e. the Centre of Competence of the Council of Culture Schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e997	I am in principle willing to assess everything, but then there must be a basis for it to be necessary. As far as I can see, the municipalities have taken their responsibility. They've gained greater freedom to give priority, because we're no longer earmarking this and detailing the price. As a result, more children now receive the offer and the average price remains below the maximum price. It is the priority of the municipalities when they have been given freedom. I find that a red-green government intends to do something else. For me, it's the same thing as weakening local democracy. Then there is an alternative to choices to weaken local democracy. I do not believe that is necessary in Norway. I believe there is already too little room for action for local politicians to allow us to maintain respect for local democracy in the long term and make it meaningful to be local politicians. As far as the attitude to studies, etc. is concerned, I take it seriously. But it will be exciting to see, if SV ever enters government offices, how SV will then deal with official Norwegian statistics, whether it means something, or whether there will still be half-complete surveys, media essays and random statements that will govern policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1010	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘A regular in Oslo has called one of its list patients into an ‘annual health check’. The letter of formal notice states: ‘We remind you that this is outside the fixed medical scheme and costs 950 kroner.’ In the case of questions to the doctor’s office, the patient’s record is checked, and the sister answering the enquiry claims that the patient has entered into such an agreement with the doctor. She claims that the health check is outside the fixed medical system, and that the doctor has a number of hours he can dispose of freely. How does the Council of State view such an action by a permanent resident?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1019	The fixed doctor-municipal agreement covers curative activities, i.e.: diagnosis and treatment in case of disease or suspicion of disease. In its activities as a medical practitioner, the doctor is bound by the fees agreed between the State, the Municipal Council of Local Councils and the Medical Association, as shown in the standard tariff. Both the standard rate and the reimbursement rates of the public interest are confined to curative activities and do not include purely preventive services. The doctor is bound by these tariffs in all his curative practices, regardless of whether it is within or outside the opening time agreed with the municipality. Every permanent medical practitioner performs in addition medical work which is not covered by the standard tariff but is paid by the contracting entity. Some of these are required by law, such as medical statements for social security, courts and child protection. Within defined limits, the municipality may impose on the local authority the official medical work of nursing homes, health centres, etc. Health certificate for driving licences or vaccinations when travelling abroad must be paid by the client at the expense of the doctor. In this category, any routine health checks of a purely preventive nature will also fall. The fixed medical system shall cover the needs of citizens for health care at general medical level. A person who is in the fixed medical system has the right to come to the permanent medical practitioner under normal conditions when he/she considers that he/she has a health need for it. If a permanent resident makes a general offer of annual health checks to the population on its list on the side of the fixed medical scheme, it may give the impression that the fixed medical system itself is not sufficient to meet the health needs of its inhabitants. It could be an unfortunate signal to send out to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1028	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, as I see it so that the Minister of Health agrees with me that the decision-makers cannot summon their list patients to their private practice in order to achieve greater financial gain. My concern, however, is that this may be the top of an iceberg, and that more decision-makers than the one involved in this case operate in the same way. I am therefore asking the Minister of Health if the Department is aware of the fact that several doctors have this kind of double practice that affects the list patients, but patients are not really aware of it. In this case, there was an up-and-coming patient who reviewed the attempted fraud, but I'm afraid that quite a few patients at all would not have responded, but would have been happy to have an hour with his doctor. In view of this specific matter, will the Minister of Health ensure that the decision-makers are given the necessary clarifications of their responsibilities for their list patients and that this type of private practice cannot be accepted?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1037	I cannot answer Mr Alvheim's question on an assumed scale, but we should not ignore the fact that there is more than this simple case where this can be a reality. It will be a practice on the side of what has been the intention of the entire fixed medical system. On the basis of this question, I can and will take this up with the Medical Association. And in the light of such a meeting, we'll see if there's a need to clarify the provisions that apply to what activities a doctor may have in addition to what has been agreed between the State, the Medical Association and the municipality in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1044	Thank you. I'm pleased with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1053	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘The State Agreement between the Swedish and Norwegian Governments gave the premise for a common toll scheme at Svinesund for the financing of new bridges. The agreement is broken by the Swedish Constitution, because it is added to the toll collection on the old bridge to finance the development costs of the new one. Does the Council of State think this will mean that the drivers will release extra toll loads over a long period of time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1062	The plan has been to start the payment of tolls on both new and old bridges at Svinesund, as the new bridge is open for traffic. New bridge will be opened to traffic on 10 June this year. As the representative Hedstrøm points out, some problems have arisen on the Swedish side related to toll collection there. The solution chosen there is an internal Swedish issue. Discussions are ongoing between the authorities of the two countries in order to ensure that a system is found as soon as possible to implement the toll collection agreement. The Ministry of Transport aims to return to Stortinget with a briefing on this in an overall proposal at the end of April 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1074	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This with toll collection on the Swedish side is, of course, an internal Swedish matter. But I have gained experience that the Swedish Ministry of Finance has produced a memo on the movement of the two bridges, the new and the old Svinesund Bridge, that toll collection is considered a tax rather than a tax. So even if a constitutional amendment is not necessary, there must be a new law, possibly a regulation, and this law must be consulted. You also need to know about discounts, fares, and the things you hear in good time before you start toll collection. This will take time. Does the Council have any opinion as to how long can the drivers pass over the Svinesund Bridge free of charge? I expect you to work to get common solutions, first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1081	It's absolutely right that we work to find common solutions. We have an agreement that's at the bottom, and that's what we're working from. But if it were to be that way over time you are in a situation where tolls are not paid, it would mean that it would have to be paid longer. So we want us to get started as soon as possible with the toll collection, and then preferably when the traffic opens, so that we can end the toll collection at the time of the intention. In addition to that, I find it difficult to make assessments of how to attack this in Sweden, and what assessments are made in relation to Swedish legislation. We'll get back to Stortinget with a briefing on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1088	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. With regard to toll payment of road systems, including bridges, this is something new and untapped in Sweden. And based on the information I've collected, it seems that the Swedes will agree to different rules for this from what we have in Norway, and that there will be problems with a coordinated collection at Svinesund. I expect that the Road Directorate and the Department have looked at these things in terms of the time aspect of putting in place proper arrangements. Is the Council of State now facing a problem that the collection costs may be higher because it is becoming more difficult to coordinate the collection?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1095	It is a goal for us that the collection costs should be as low as possible, so that people who travel on the road and pay their tolls will experience that they will get the most possible road solution and infrastructure solution for the money spent. We have the agreement that lies at the bottom, and that's what we're working from the point of view of the solutions that need to be put in place. In addition, it is difficult for me to comment on this further before we can get back to Stortinget with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1104	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The defence may save millions of people liable for protection from civil servants. As an example, 38 sheltered auxiliary chefs in Troms could be replaced with a few civilians and thus saved the defense for 3 million. kr annually. Does the Council of State agree that it is necessary to consider what our soldiers should be used for, that the defence is more likely to allow soldiers to be soldiers, and that more ‘sivile’ services are handled by civilians?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1113	For a long time, there has been a aim to reduce the use of guardians in support services, simply because the guardians have to have an interesting and relevant service and because it will help to raise the status of the first-time service. Therefore, it could have been tempting to answer very briefly and well and only answered yes to this question. In fact, the question mainly reflects the government's policy on key issues in the modernisation of defence: We need to turn the operation from support activities to operational services.We need to raise the status of those under protection.We need to use civil resources in areas that do not require specific professional military competence. However, it is important that one measure does not slow down the implementation of the other. During the current planning period, the Stortinget has given a very high priority to a reduction of 5000 annual works, because it provides the largest operating savings and at the same time is a prerequisite for carrying out structural rationalisations. The defence now assesses different models of regional support activities, including: based on the minimum use of protective agents in such functions. At the same time, we need to ensure that the current solutions meet the need to continue and further develop the apprenticeship system in Defence, and this includes the cooking profession. We must not forget that for some guardians, service in support functions can be meritorious in relation to future civil careers. Nor should we forget that the defense needs to cook both for exercises and for international operations, and that this is part of an overall competence that the Defense needs. The defence should be able to continue to offer e.g.: cooking services for those who wish to do so and for those who, for various reasons, are unable to provide the initial operational service. I would also like to add that according to a study carried out by the MMI in November 2004 among those who have completed the initial service, 81 states pst. that they enjoy much or quite well in the initial service, and 75 pst. states that they were very or quite satisfied with their duties. That means there's a lot of good in today's protective duty. However, the objective is clear: the number of soldiers in support functions shall be reduced to a minimum and the human resources shall be adapted to maximise cost-saving effect. The reduction of annual works is planned, so that it is possible to adjust the layout of the individual departments as well. It can open up arrangements such as those outlined at Setermoen, as the representative Bredvold uses as an example in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1144	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was an answer that I am very pleased with. It is clear that the defence budgets are to defend as much as possible – and, as far as possible, to the pointless end. So as much defense as possible for every penny, that's good. When you see that by reducing the number of soldiers in certain services, which in certain situations can be carried out by civilians, thus saving money, you have to be right. In this way, I interpret the Council's response as positive. At the same time, it is true that the Storting decided that we should reduce the number of employees by 5,000 men, which is not easy, but I understand and agree that we are on the right track. I believe that the Council of State and other defence friends should come to a good solution to this. Because it is clear that in certain positions a number of civil service soldiers can be replaced with permanent civil servants. So I thank the Council of State for the answer and do not have any follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1156	I am pleased that the answer is considered satisfactory. It's starting to become a weekly tradition that we two have our passions here, and that's actually a nice part of the job. I am pleased that we have a common objective, both that protective workers should have a meaningful service, and that within the reduction target we should manage this in a flexible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1168	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Modernization: «In the treatment of St.meld. No 17 On State supervision, the government parties, the Workers' Party and SV entered into an agreement in 6 points. [[2002-2003]] Paragraph 5 deals with the conditions and rights of employees. This was clarified in the year's budgetary procedure and supported by the same batches. The government's objective was that the maximum number of employees should choose to move with, and the agreement specifies that additional incentives should be provided to achieve this. This is not done well enough and employees are treated differently. What is done to follow up the contract?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1177	The government wants the removal of supervision to be such that most of the employees move with it. A wide range of economic instruments have therefore been put in place for employees to achieve this objective. The allocation of the State budget for each supervisory move is based on a cost model designed to address the challenges and specificities of the various supervision activities, such as: in relation to the age and education profile and relative to the distance from the new geographical location, adapted to the different assumptions of the supervision in the process before them. My department has concluded a central special agreement with the main associations of the state that regulate the use of instruments in the geographical movement of enterprises. There are, among other things: different solutions for commuting schemes, wage subsidies for standing in position, cover for removal costs, cover for tour expenses and extra mortgages in the State Pension Fund. It is also possible for employees who are unable to move, to receive termination benefits and study benefits. In the case of workers exempted from the mobility obligation, it is possible to apply for a waiting wage. This applies mainly to older workers, who are assessed as local jobseekers in accordance with Aetat’s legislation. The Ministry of Modernisation, in consultation with the main associations of the State, has made it possible for the employer to determine how the various financial instruments can best be used within the centrally provided framework. In addition, the Ministry of Modernisation has set up its own programme of career development, which is an offer to all staff in the supervision during relocating. The measure is partly financed from the budget of the Ministry of Modernisation. The heads of staff of the supervisors have received their own network offer and follow-up. The use of career development as a tool to improve the basis for decisions on further job choices for individual employees. The action has been very well received. The Ministry of Modernisation has confirmed from the various supervisory bodies that the processes are in line with planned progress plans and that there are no serious difficulties in maintaining and recruiting employees for supervisory purposes. In cases where specific challenges arise, such as: have been made in relation to the Air Safety Authority, the circumstances will be submitted to the Stortinget as its own case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1190	I would like to thank you for your answer. We get various enquiries from employees in the various supervision units that say that one is divided into key personnel, not key personnel, and not wanted to be part of a transfer staff. Of course, it is cheaper for these inspections to employ, for example. office staff in the various locations. It's not hard to recruit, and it gets cheaper when you move out. We're quite concerned about this, and we've clarified this twice by a majority, and we re-examined this in the committee when examining the budget for the year. We've clearly said that here you need to stimulate everyone to move, regardless of whether you're a key employee or not. I want to challenge the Council of State: can the Council of State say quite explicitly that this is an offer for all employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1199	I stress that when transferring supervision, it is a clear objective that the maximum number of employees should move with. There is a significant instrument that has been made available for supervision to achieve this. There will always be some major challenges in such a process for single employees, but I have every reason to trust the leaders who are responsible for the relocation of these supervision. I have every confidence that the employees' interests are well taken care of, and that the instruments are used as Stortinget has foreseen. This does not mean that every employee can expect – let's say – equal treatment. After all, it is absolutely necessary to adapt the instruments to the individual worker in question, and that room of action has, of course, the Heads of State or Government. As I said, I have confidence that the manager uses that tool well and with the employee's interests in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1204	Thanks for the answer. However, we have clearly said in a majority, in an agreement, that employees should have the opportunity to move out, have equal opportunities, and that they should be stimulated, and that is the responsibility of the Council of State. We also said that the right of preference must be made real, as Stortinget promised in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 17 for 2002-2003. The case was raised by LO State at the time the Ministry of Labour and Administration, now the Ministry of Modernisation, in June 2004. A group of parties assessed whether the State’s preference could be improved. No matter what this main association proposed, the proposals were totally rejected by the ministry. I could imagine to hear why it worked this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1213	My impression is that along the way in this process there has developed a very good cooperation between the main associations and my department as head of the Ministry of Employers, and that the processes associated with the relocation of supervisors are now in a good position with relatively small problems, problems that are manageable in each case. I stress that where challenges might arise that have a greater scale, of course, the Storting will be briefed on that. I think we are now at a crossroads where we can enjoy the follow-up to an important decision, where we spread important skills jobs across Norway. I think we're doing a job now that means that this shift of supervision will be characterised as successful and hopefully will be a further lead to continuing this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1222	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘New figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that construction in the coastal zone continues to the same extent as before. In 2004, 72 p.m. of the exemption applications from the construction ban granted. This leads to an increasing proportion of the beach zone becoming for the few who are being built, while the public is getting poorer access. What will the Council of State do to reduce the construction of the coastal zone?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1231	I'm particularly busy avoiding bad construction in the beach zone and ensuring traffic for the public. I am therefore pleased that the representative Klungland should focus on this. The numbers that are referred to here are not finite. Final figures for exemptions for new buildings in the 100 meter belt along the lake for 2004 are not available until mid-June. However, I would like to highlight the need for an offensive and forward-looking coastal zone management. Strandsona is mentioned in St.meld. No 21 for 2004-2005 on the government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, which was submitted just before Easter. The message suggests a number of actions and tools to improve the coastal zone management. The government will challenge municipalities, county councils and county councillors to a strict practice in dealing with planks and exemptions in the 100 meter belt. The government will set up your local government to clean up coastal zones. The government will secure and fix the most attractive areas in the beach zone. The government will establish a nationwide coastal zone management network. The Government will give priority to coastal zones in the follow-up to the Planlov selection process. The practice I want for the beach sonals comes, among other things. as expressed in the decision of 22 March of this year on the Post and Telecommunications Authority’s office building in Lillesand. I chose to take countermeasures from the state to the order and did not confirm the regulation plan. I mean, the location of the building in the 100-meter belt is in conflict with national coastal zone policy. I believe that the measures I have taken will provide a better development for the coastal zone in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1254	I notice what the Council of State says, and thank you for that. This is a matter that we in the Workers' Party have raised repeatedly, and we have basically received the same answers, regardless of government councils. I do not think it is good enough to show an example in Lillesand in relation to the Post and Telecommunications Authority, when one is now facing a situation in the neighbouring municipality where there is talk of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party granting a derogation for 853 sea arcs to be built into cabins. I have asked the Council of State earlier about this, and he said that it is the municipality that is responsible for land management, and that they will have a cooperation with the county council and the county council. Today there is a look-up in the Fädreland friend where they from the county municipality say that the municipality has not made contact, and that the county municipality or county has not been involved in the picture in relation to the situation that has now arisen in Kristiansand. What will the Council of State now do to ensure that there will be proper proceedings in that municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1265	I do not want to go into the specific matter that is being dealt with in Kristiansand tied to the sea arcs on Flekker Island. It comes about that there is a case that can well end up in the department, and if she does, I will of course decide on the matter. In my dialogue with the statesmen, I have stressed and asked that an add up to a very strict practice associated with the handling of matters in the coastal zone, and that is because the developments we see today cannot continue. That's why I have taken the initiative to meet with the statesmen and asked for a firm practice. Yesterday I had the joy of being with all the country's country spokesmen. I also asked the county councils in their planning cases to take care of the beach area issue in order to get to a strict practice. I mean, I have the tools today to keep it up. In all the cases that come to me, it is important for me to put up a strict practice just to take care of the beach sun.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1274	With the evolution we see in relation to the beach zone, it should soon be up to the Council of State that it might have to do more than just talk and recommend. So now it turns out that the municipality after the municipality does not follow up what the council says. We in the Workers' Party want stronger regulation in order to have more stringent practices in this area. Former Minister of Environmental Protection Børge Brende refers to the possibilities of municipalities if these sea arcs are used illegally. For example, he shows that they can be imposed, that they are liable under criminal law when using a sea bow, and that they can use the law on planning and building and, where appropriate, provide for periodic penalty payments to implement the law. Are there any things that the current Minister for the Environment will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1283	As I said in my first supplementary answer, I don't want to comment on the things that are currently going on in Kristiansand, and that's because we don't know about the developments further, and about the things that might come to the department. That's why I don't want to say anything about it right now. But I want to refute that this is just talk. So we're giving instructions to our statesmen about a strict administration. As a result, all plans that conflict with the national targets will object and thus end up in the ministry. We also know that when it comes to the specific issues, the statesmen can react to them, and they will then come to the treatment of a member of the prison. So the policy that's being pursued, with the strict practice, becomes important when it concerns both the specific issues and the planning issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-06.ana.ud1176e1288	So the ordinary questioning strategy is over.
