ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e43	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies from the Minister of Finance and three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e54	In tax policy, it is important for the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre to ensure income to solve Community tasks and to promote fair distribution and a better environment. In addition, it is very central that the employment and value creation of society are being taken seriously. The tax system must be the sign that it reflects the actual economic conditions. Therefore, a broad tax base must be used in combination with low rates. This is an important condition both for the equal taxation of persons with the same income and for the deliberate distribution of income. The taxation of enterprises and capital must be designed in such a way as to inspire the greatest possible value creation. Different industries and investments must be taxed to a large extent equally. Therefore, all real surpluses must be taxed. The three government parties will continue to bring the overall level of taxation from 2004. This will allow you to increase the level by $4.9 billion from 2005. Most of this increase, approx. Three billion kroner, will be completed next year. In 2006, the increase in taxes and charges will be 6.4 billion kr compared to the proposal of the Bondevik II government. There are important changes in the tax system next year. The tax on dividends from axes and gains is greatly increased, from 28 pst. to 48 pst. It's a completely necessary change. The current system has made it possible for some taxpayers to adapt and pay little tax. The difference in tax from salary and tax from dividends on axes and gains has been up to 34 pst. Ours is both unfortunate and untimely. The increase in the tax on dividends introduced from the new year will result in a clearly tightened tax rate for the richest. The distribution will be greatly improved in the currently introduced configuration. We have to remember that the hundreds of the richest people in this country have only 2 pst. of its income as a salary. It fully points to the need to adopt a broad approach when assessing this policy area. All aspects of fiscal policy must be taken into consideration. Government parties are willing to do that. At the time, it has been possible to save large amounts by adapting to the tax system. Many taxpayers have received low taxes by adapting to the sharing model. After the new system that is being introduced, these people have to pay taxes in line with other wage earners. This will strengthen the redistribution of the tax system. The innovation, which in the technical language is called the screening method, will increase the tax revenue next year by just over $4 billion. The amount will increase further by approx. One billion dollars later. An important measure of the reconversion of the tax system is that people at the same level of income pay about the same amount of tax. This means that tax rates on high labour income are adjusted slightly downwards. For this reason, the Government proposes that the highest level of tax be set to 12 pst. The lights in the top tax will collect 2.3 billion kroner less than the Bondevik II government proposed. The wealth tax has been a major political issue. The old government proposed to reduce taxes on wealth. The party of progress will liquidate it from next year. The current government party disagrees with such a policy. We believe that this tax should be increased for groups with large assets but who pay little taxes on wealth. Bottom subtraction will be significantly increased from next year. The distribution will be clearly improved by screening those with the lowest assets. On the right-hand side of the policy, it is claimed that it is necessary to introduce substantial relief into the wealth tax in order to achieve the objectives of the tax reform. That opinion does not share the party of government. Therefore, this tax will increase from next year in relation to the Bondevik scheme. It is a fact that there is a close connection between wealth and income of a taxpayer. The context is particularly strong if one compares real wealth and income. There are therefore good reasons why taxes on wealth are still to play a central role in achieving a fairer distribution. The reduction or liquidation of the property tax, as proposed by the Progress Party, is for this reason to take steps in the wrong direction. The tax system must be improved. The distribution needs to be more equitable. Those with large assets must contribute more to the community. It's the government party's policy. The so-called payroll tax is being removed. In reality, there is an employer’s tax on high wage incomes. So it's not a tax that wealthy wage earners have to pay. This tax represents a substantial part of the difference in taxes on labour and taxes on capital. So when you remove the tax, you take away one of the benefits of adapting to the tax system as it works today. The tax arrangement for the government of Stoltenberg is more social and fair than what Bondevik handed down. The richest in society get substantial tax increases. Persons with income above NOK 750000 represent 3,4 pst. of the population. They're going to get a total tax increase of $2.1 billion. Persons with an income of less than SEK 750000 receive a collection of tax credits of about EUR 750000. One billion kroner. There has been a great deal of reduction in the maximum tax on labour income from next year. The agitation has assumed that the government will bring tax relief to the rich. The material submitted shows that this claim is incorrect. The decrease in the maximum tax on labour income is only a small part of a total scheme that does not provide tax relief to the rich. On the contrary, the government's tax regime leads to a substantial increase in the tax for the most prosperous in society. One person who is one of the hundreds richest in Norway, on average, will get $30,000 in reduced top taxes. The same person, on the other hand, will get 1.1 million. kr i extra taxes on wealth. In addition, he or she will have a substantial increase in the tax on dividends. The government proposes that the minimum deduction of wages and salaries be increased from the next year. The deduction rate is set at 34 pst, and the upper limit of the deduction is set at 61 100 kroner. The Bondevik government had other proposals on both of these areas, proposals that were less favourable to the taxpayers than the current government parties are. It has been a central requirement of trade unions to increase the deduction of the trade union quota. The same applies to the deduction of the quota for certain professional or trade organisations. The deduction of these quotas will be increased to NOK 2 250. This is the first step in doubling the subtraction from the current level. Right, Christian People's Party and Left are going against the increase. The progress party thinks the subtraction should be removed. The government is proposing to change the rules for the inheritance tax on buddies. Under the current rules, spouses and roommates who have common children are exempt from inheritance fees. The government suggests that co-workers who have bid together for two years or more should also be exempt from inheritance fees and gifts to each other. In this way, there is actually a similar practice in lawmaking between spouses and partners. It's positive. Next year, the real wealth here in the country will get significantly higher taxes. It's a consequence of the arrangement for which the government party secures multiples in Odelstinget today. Quite rightly, a group of wage earners who do not have a share or wealth will be taxed. But this is a small group. The vast majority of those who are greatly relieved of the tax on wages also receive substantial increased taxes on wealth and dividends. The Government Party will secure the multiplicity of a 2006 tax settlement that is more social and fairer than the opposition party enters. At the same time, we get more income for the important tasks that the community is going to take care of. It is a policy that we are proud of, we who place great emphasis on solidarity and justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e103	On pages 18 and 19 of the statement, we can read about the proposal to abolish the special tax exemption for the free-of-charge of barges and seafarers. In the Committee's observations it is very clear that the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party, subscribes to the Government's proposal for this suspension. Then the majority of the committee, with the government parties, has a comment asking the Government to come back to revision and review this question. My question to the representative Sandal is then: if it is the case that the government parties do not want this suspension, why do you vote to cancel this tax exemption today, and then to come back to it in six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e110	It is true, as the representative of Leirstein points out, that during previous treatment in the Stortinget, the Labour Party has opposed the taxation of the cost of adding to the continental shelf. The same applies to the rent supplement for seafarers. We have pointed this out in the setting we are now debating, and in the light of what we have said and said before, it would be natural for the Government to assess this and come back to the Storting with a new assessment when we deal with the revised national budget. The government has had a very short time to prepare this budget. I trust that the government will take the reassessment that the majority in Stortinget wants, and I look forward to the treatment that we will receive in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e117	In the election campaign, it became a kind of mantra for the head of the Workers' Party Jens Stoltenberg that there should not be a single crown in tax relief until the care of the elderly shined. Some tax reliefs are now granted. It is they with the highest income that receive tax relief. It is clear that the centre party has benefited from an increase in the agricultural deduction, and the main sponsor of the Workers' Party has received a strong increase in the trade union deduction. One cannot help but note that this is, unfortunately, a broken electoral promise and that it is very poor in line with what the representative Sandal addresses, namely the good point that the tax system should be as broad as possible and at the lowest possible level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e122	It is not right, as the representative Skovholt Gitmark pointed out, that the Labour Party has broken the call. We've said that we've meant and we're going to keep those who have the big incomes contributing more to the community. The tax arrangements made by the Government meet this requirement. I point out that in our arrangement, those who have an income of 1 million will. NOK or more, get an average tax tightening of NOK 43 600. I also show that the increased wealth tax we're adding, and the increase in the dividend tax that the Government has proposed and the majority in the Storing is in favour of, is precisely aimed at taxing the stronger those who have the highest income. So I just want to point out in the end that when it comes to the union quota, we're fulfilling our promise, we're not going to go away from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e129	In the submission of changes to the State budget, the Government writes: ‘The Government proposes, inter alia, that the valuation of wealth should reflect, to a greater extent than at present, real values.’ Then I want to ask the representative Sandal: Is the proposal to increase the equation value of dwellings by 25 pst. a first paragraph of the tax return of the dwelling to real values in relation to today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e139	The three government parties have strongly and clearly pointed out that there is a clear link between the wealth of a person and the income of the person concerned. Statistical material fully underpins this. And that's also the case when we're going to increase the taxation of wealth because we think it's factually correct, and because wealth is an important part of the distribution policy, that it would be natural for the valuation of wealth to follow in the economic development that happens. That's why we've suggested increasing the value of wealth and the value of housing. But I just want to stress that we haven't proposed to reintroduce housing taxes, as part of the previous government party owes us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e146	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e150	Taxes and taxes are a very important area for the Progress Party that we focus a lot on. We want a simpler tax system, so that you don't have to use so many resources to adapt to the tax system and to understand the tax system. We want a lower tax level, so that we can generate more value, and so that investments that are profitable before tax, also become profitable after tax. Norway is a small country, at least in terms of having few inhabitants. We have large distances in the country, and we also have a high pay level. Well, the fact that we have a high pay level, we're obviously going to be very proud of it. But at the same time, we cannot have the highest taxes and taxes across Europe and far higher taxes and taxes than our most important competitors. Therefore, the Progress Party is busy getting tax relief. We want business tax bills, which we think will help create more jobs and start more businesses in the country, which will also lead to greater demand for labour. We also want personal tax billing and billing. Personal taxes on employee income are very important, because then it becomes more profitable to work. Calculations that have been made show that by providing payroll tax for particularly lower incomes, higher labour input becomes more profitable, and more people want to work more. So this will lead to more people getting along on their own and without the addition of the public in any way. Creating more jobs on the one hand and doing more work on the other will, of course, lead to an increase in value added, and gross domestic product will also rise from today's level. It also means, in the next round, that the loss of public tax revenue will be reduced as the years go by, and one will increase the increase in value added and the increase in gross domestic product. In other words, the best way to distribute cookies is to increase. There will be a broader tax base, there will be more companies taxing, and there will be more wage earners taxing. It shows that tax incentives increase well-being. There is therefore no contradiction between well-being and tax havens, as government representatives try to make it. We believe that tax relief is a prerequisite for good welfare. That's why we're in favour of a range of tax breaks in our alternative budget and in the setting. That's what we think is necessary and an important step in the right direction. Unfortunately, many of the tax laws that will be made today are going in the wrong direction. It shall apply, inter alia: taxes on wealth. It is proposed to tighten up the wealth tax, which Sandal's representative was in, and we believe and fear that more people are doing like the richest Northman, John Fredriksen, and moving the fortunes abroad. No one will be interested, because if the richest move abroad to save taxes, this will result in jobs being moved abroad in the next round. So it's not like the representative Sandal's trying to make it, that there are roughly solid shots around Norway's borders when capital flows are involved. The capital flows in and out, and it's easy to move out of the country if you see that the tax pressure is getting too burdensome in Norway. Another proposal that is unfortunate is the proposal to reduce the pay off from 20 to 15 pst. It will make it more difficult to run small businesses in Norway, and this will result in fewer jobs being created. The rate of depreciation for machines is also not increased as initially proposed by the outgoing government, and it is true that SV – and Øystein Djupedal in particular – have our spokesman for this. R & D is important for creating jobs. Center Party Produces a Document No. 8 proposals earlier this year that R & D costs should be incurred as they were incurred. There's now a suggestion that one should not go in for. These shall be activated and shall be incurred over several years. We think it's a very important signal to ask if we want to bet on R & D, if we want to facilitate research and development. The transitional rules for the courts are also an issue that has been raised in the past. The majority asked for good transitional arrangements and that one should take care that annual tax burden and equity were not unduly affected. Internationally competitive framework conditions, especially in this industry, are important and, of course, if one does not facilitate this, the number of jobs will also be affected. So we're going to go against these proposed legislative changes. Then there is a proposal for the abolition of the tax exemption for base workers and for seafarers' renting allowances. We thought it was petty to remove this scheme. Of course, we are aware of this comment, but we believe that until the revised national budget, there will still be uncertainty as to what will actually be done in that matter. We have a proposal that this tax exemption should continue from 1 January 2006, and it is then natural that those who are in that proposal vote for it. Another proposal is to abolish the tax exemption for the benefit of employers’ coverage of treatment insurance and sickness costs. It is also a proposal that is incomprehensible from the point of view of the Progress Party. This is a system that has worked very well. The system has helped to speed up treatment, and it has reduced public spending. It is also proposed to tighten up the domestic PC scheme with gross features. There is a maximum of NOK 10000. We have been given clear and concrete impressions that this will drastically reduce and weaken the system. We're proposing a ceiling of NOK 30,000. As a result, the system will be much more useful, and in the longer term, on our proposal, it will, of course, also mean that there will be a higher general data competence in the population than it will be after the proposal which unfortunately seems to be agreed. When it applies to donations to voluntary organizations, we suggest increasing the limit to NOK 18 000, which is NOK 3000 more than the government has proposed. The BSU is an important system, which has led many young people to get the necessary capital to get their first dwelling. It is proposed to maintain the level of NOK 15 000. We think this should be set at NOK 20 000. We also ask that the ceiling be raised to NOK 150 000. When it comes to inheritance taxes, something has been done well. The deduction scheme for the inheritance tax on generation change in family holdings is positive. It's also the ease of action that's being proposed for the conjugation. When it comes to the general ease, we found it a pity that they weren't followed up. We are also going to go in order to increase the special deduction for age and disability by NOK 1000. We feel it's right that pensioners and social security get something of the lost, because this rate has been unregulated for many years. When it comes to value added tax, we go against the tightening up, and we go in order that the restaurant tax, which is today at 25 pst, is reduced to 11 pst. This doesn't give you the boundary problem between food that gets eaten in the place and food that one takes with you. Well, there were some of the changes the Progress Party will vote for. Finally, I would like to take up those proposals in the vote by the Financial Committee where the Progress Party is either alone or in conjunction with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e188	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has promoted the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e193	The party of progress is reversing with huge reductions in taxes and charges next year. Their profile is definitely both unsocial and unfair. The hundredth richest gets a $5 million tax bill. kr on average after the arrangement of the Progress Party. The state will miss out on big revenues next year after the Progress Party's proposal. The loss of revenue will amount to approx. $29 billion. The overhang in the tax and tax package is stipulated at NOK 7–8 billion in 2007. The progress point doesn't say anything about how it should be covered in. All of this has to go far beyond the provision of well-being. Normal people will be the big loser. Nevertheless, the Progress Party boldly asserts that they are pursuing a policy that suits people the most. I would like to ask the representative Hageseter if he does not at least feel a certain discomfort by presenting a penance where there is no similarity between life and learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e200	: I can confirm to the representative Sandal that I do not feel the slightest discomfort at the budget we have submitted. On the contrary, I am very proud that the Progress Party has presented a budget that provides tax relief for ordinary people, and that also takes seriously what we need to facilitate growth and value creation in the economy. It's true that there's a certain amount of proceeds in the first year with our tax and tax credits. But our tax havens and our scheme will lead to a much better growth in the economy, more businesses and more jobs, so that the loss one has in the first year will gradually decrease as growth and the tax base increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e207	The three previous government parties and the Progress Party had excellent cooperation during the previous enlargement period, such as: the Progress Party made a significant impact on fiscal policy. However, it was an area where we disagreed, and it was part of the tax reform, the introduction of the so-called shareholder model and the dividend tax. Both during the debate and in particular in the election campaign, there were strong accusations from the Progress Party, targeting perhaps especially the Right, in relation to the introduction of the shareholder model without the adoption of reductions in the wealth tax. Now I register that the Progress Party has obviously turned around. According to an interview with the Evening Post, Gjermund Hagesetter has accepted the introduction of the dividend tax without the adoption of the removal of the property tax. Can gardeners confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e214	I can confirm that the Progress Party voted against the dividend tax. We were against the dividend tax because he has a lot of weaknesses that we wanted to fix, but that we didn't get. Another reason why we went against it was, of course, that one did not take hold at the same time, which led to the removal of the property tax. Then we couldn't go into it until we had assured ourselves that the property tax was also removed. In our alternative state budget and in our arrangement, we have gone into the process of removing the property tax altogether. It is up to the representative, Mr Sanner, to support the proposal during the vote. There won't be any multiples anyway. But we have now accepted that the dividend tax has come to be, and therefore we want to put in our shots to remove the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e221	It's not right, as Gjermund Hagesetter says, that in Norway we have the highest level of taxes and charges in the world. I think that's right to point out. In addition, I think it is important to have one more thing said, and it is that the Progress Party would like to have a social view and a social model that is much more like the American one, where people are more and more funding a good part of the well-being, such as. health care and the kind of things, through insurance and other schemes. It's clear that this is a much less effective way of driving society. We pay over the tax bill and ensure social justice and access to good welfare services for everyone. I'm going to hack into the claim that the Progress Party is for the most people. They have a tax bill of over 30 billion dollars in their alternative state budget. Why, then, is it that those with the greatest wealth and the highest income receive the most sovereign tax credits with the arrangement of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e228	I would first say that these interpretations from the representative Holmås that we want a system like the American one, are not correct. It is also not correct, as the representative Holmås tries to make it, that we want the individual to pay for his own health. We have never suggested that, and the representative also knows Holmås well. In fact, when it comes to the profile of our tax dollars, when you're going to give tax dollars, you're not going to hit those who pay taxes. And those who pay a lot of taxes will often get the biggest tax credits. I believe that SV has also found out after they entered the government room. When it comes to the social profile, we think he's good. The most important thing for us is that ordinary people get tax breaks, and that one also facilitates a scheme where one gets created values and jobs in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e237	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e240	The rapporteur has done well for the position in a very proper way, but he also spent a lot of time and a lot of numbers explaining – or let me explain – that the majority parties are not in favour of tax relief to the rich. That is precisely what they do by providing tax relief to those who earn the most by implementing the tax reform, at least in part. I understand that this hurts intimately, not least perhaps in the two smaller parties. There are tensions in the government parties, and it makes this difference between life and learning from the election campaign have to spend a lot of time explaining. Now we don't have anything to do with giving tax relief. For the outgoing government, tax relief was a very important economic instrument. Let's see. Yesterday, surveys were carried out by the Central Statistical Office, which shows that enterprises in Norway are doing very well. The profits are big, the taxes are going to increase. That means that the policy we have pursued has been right. In this position, the majority of the parties show that in many areas, economic policy, and in particular fiscal policy, led by the outgoing government, is taking a step backwards. This is particularly true of the whole of the tax reform. Changes are highly detrimental to businesses and businesses. For example, the pay deduction for self-employed workers is reduced. It was an important part of the corporate model of the tax reform. This pay cut was one of the really important tools for creating more jobs. Small owners of enterprises are now subject to increased taxation. The only tax reliefs to be provided after this appointment are employees with membership of trade unions. You don't think so much about establishing jobs. The rapporteur has also spent a lot of time talking about the wealth tax. The extraordinary property tax is a clear obstacle to Norwegian private ownership. That is why it has been an important part of the whole tax reform. Now, the majority parties make it a symbol to take the rich – and most of the time, you have to get to the hundreds richest to manage to prove that that's what you're doing. I think it's very little interesting for Samfunns-Norway what to do with the hundred richest. It is the small farms, the undergrowth, around the country that are important. Then the wealth tax is very, very important to create new jobs. I think if you want to do something for those who have little, if you want to do something for those who are poor, you have to create new jobs. Then the taxes on wealth are absolutely crucial, it needs to be reduced. What you are doing now is sending the bill – not to implement the tax reform – to all businesses. I see that you want to go in that direction. Increasing the wealth tax that you're doing now, you reverse what we've proposed, is the first step to do something about ownership, as SV's new Vice President says in the paper today. You're doing it to the greatest degree by sharpening it. Reduction in depreciation rates has been almost the only instrument the Socialist Left Party has had in its toolbox, although it actually also contributes to increasing the profits of businesses and making owners richer sometimes. Depreciation rates for machinery are lower in Norway than in other countries. It may mean the relocation and reduction of the level of investment. But, as SV correctly pointed out, it is very important for a good working environment to be able to modernise the engine fleet continuously. Finally, a few words about the proposal to deduct gifts from political parties. The deductibility of such a contribution will be an important incentive for citizens to participate in the financing of our democracy, so that the parties become less dependent on government grants and unilateral grants from large organisations. This can give rise to addiction. There was also a clear majority in the Democratic Finance Committee in favour of this. When the government parties now oppose this, I think it is becoming troubling, perhaps at the limit of the embarrassing, to increase tax deductions and promise more deductions from contributions from trade unions, which actually both support and pilotly direct the government's policy, while the free citizen who wants to give the same support is cut off such an opportunity. Finally, I address the suggestions that we along with other parties promote in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e259	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e265	The discussion of changes in the tax system in the autumn has given the impression of a Right who does not know the exact feet on which to stand. On the one hand, there is talk of the new government giving huge tax relief to those who have high incomes, but at the same time, one would like to criticise the fact that tax incentives have been given to the same groups. Is it not precisely what is part of the essence of the tax regime that, as a result of the tax reform, there will be tax relief on wages? In the last year's budget, the government limited itself to providing a tax relief on wages and salaries. But in the tax system of the year, there is a combination of a tax on dividends, where the new government combined it with a tightening of the property tax. So while last year's government gave you 2 million. DKK in income and the usual distribution of wealth and dividends, a tax relief of NOK 50000 is granted this year for a tax increase of NOK 35000. Does the fleet have trouble seeing that there's any other distribution profile than the one we criticized last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e272	We know very well what our fiscal policy will be. We have had a scheme since the tax reform was treated as a notification, where we have had a whole in our system – an approximation of the tax on employee income and share income through the shareholder model. Furthermore, we have had a scheme to reduce — and later a liquidation — property taxes, because what counts for us as a whole is to increase the value creation of Norwegian enterprises as well as to stimulate people to work more. In fact, it is only the general model of the previous government parties that can meet these requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e277	The representative Fleet is very concerned about the business situation and therefore also the corporate tax. In the increasingly tougher international competition, not least from low-cost countries, there are a number of industries that are having difficulty ensuring the profitability of long-term investments. What is necessary, in the view of the Centre Party, is to look at the situation of the various industries and to meet them with tax rules. The proposal from us in its time on the shipwreck, which fundamentally broke with the industry neutrality, is a very good example of that. The centre party is very happy that there is a tax model that has increased ups and downs in the hall after it has been shown to work. It is important to be aware that it was the shipping companies and not the shipowners who did not tax. My question is: Former Minister of Finance Foss was a strong ideological supporter of business neutrality in corporate taxation. Will the representative Fleet on behalf of the Right now re-orient the Right's policy in this area in the future, so that we get a more practical policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e286	In fact, industry neutrality is not a concept that the Right has introduced, but it has been used against our former government because we were more reluctant to support the situation of different industries, as Lundtigen describes. But now it turns out that the general instruments we have used help. I think it's funny that Per Olaf Lundtigen addresses a question like this while he opposes increasing the depreciation rates for machines, which are at best for almost all industries in industry, in forestry and in agriculture. It becomes striking when he calls for in-principal settlement of business neutrality instead of operating practical policies in Stortinget to improve the conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e291	I'm very pleased with the contribution from the Right Tax Policy Spokesman. It implies a new course from the lot Right. This means being willing to also use the tax system as part of what you have in the toolbox to ensure an increase in future profitability in a number of vulnerable industries. It allows us to tailor the tax system to the challenges we face. It's very gratifying that we now seem to be able to get a larger majority in this room to have tools that are appropriate. It is a good citizen in relation to the next year's budget presented by the Government, which I hope will better safeguard the situation of the various competitive industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e296	I understand that the representative Lundtigen sees my defence for increased depreciation rates as being in favour of selective support for businesses. It's not at all. However, increased depreciation rates are a very important tool. What I can promise the representative of Lundtigen's party and also the other government parties is that we will continue to work to ensure that kind of tax relief can be implemented. But for that we actually need help as long as we don't have a majority, and I hope that the representative Lundtigen, who is sometimes more free-going than the others in the government parties, can help us with that in the public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e301	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e304	After all, the tax framework next year has already been decided in the financial debate. I want to use this opportunity to clarify what it was that was our point when we took over the government power, and our point of reviewing the tax system briefly in the time we had for us. There were three points that it was important for us to do something about the tax system for next year. The first point was to increase the share of the economy that the community would have in relation to the Bondevik government. That's because we think it's betting on the community. It is to ensure that the growth in the community determines above must be greater than that in the right-hand side up to the last few years. The second point was that we wanted a fairer tax system. There were three points that were important to us: one was to get larger tax havens at the bottom. The second was to seal the tax haven that has been there for a long time, with an uneven tax on labour income and capital income through dividends, which has thus made it possible to trick and fix and move money from labour income to capital income, fully legitimate, thus avoiding the same kind of tax that would otherwise have been applied if you were a worker. The third point was to make sure that taxes are zeroed from the right and increase the tax on the people who are best able to pay taxes, namely the people who have the most income and the greatest wealth. Our third point was to cancel the latent, in our opinion, changes in fees and alert an overall review of the charging system, in particular environmental taxes, but also other charges, to target the charging in Norway in relation to what we want to achieve, for example, better environment, and to ensure that the charges we use actually work as intended. I want to spend the most time talking about what's going on creating a fairer tax system. Because since 1992, the Right, with its various speakers, has stood on the pulpit here in Stortinget and almost complained to us in SV, who have proposed this every year, and argued against what they have called double taxation on dividends. Then I have respectfully always claimed that it is not the number of times a tax on income that is decisive, but what marginal tax actually applies. I am sure that the vast majority of employees in this country would say yes to having their income taxed seven times, if that was the case, that labour income was taxed by 1 pst. every time, because it would give a fairly low marginal tax, instead of being taxed once 28 pst. But it's like, in the case of share income, they've always had a tax of 28 pst. the tax on the holding and the zero tax on the holding of the owner. We have said that there has been too low a marginal tax because it has given room for the tax haven that we now close, with the support of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the other parties. After all this time they've come to meet us at that point, and we got that hole sealed up. We have had an injustice in that while ordinary workers have paid the highest tax, the people who have had the largest income, income from dividends, have paid the lowest tax. It's the fundamental injustice of the tax system that we're now doing something about. And so it's about to venture that it's been so that the Right and the others, by notifying this change in the tax reform, have given those people with the greatest wealth the opportunity to adapt in the last two years, which is thus a huge tax loss for the state and for the community. In addition, they have given the people who have the most money the opportunity to avoid taxes that should have been legally paid in the next few years. But we get to be happy that what has been a struggle case for SV for 13 years is finally adopted today, namely to ensure that those with the highest income pay taxes that are proportionate to the income they have. So there's a couple of other things I want to record cards. I am pleased that we are now implementing the change that means that cohabitants who have lived together for two years are dropping taxes on inheritance. Because it is clear that, as society has become so that people are more and more cohabitants, it has been perceived as grossly unfair that when you lose your life with whom you have been cohabiting for more than two years, you have to pay the inheritance tax. There's been a special relationship around this with cohabitation that we think is important to do something about. We've suggested it before without getting through to it. But it was updated after a television broadcast on TV2, where a woman who lost her partner in tsunami came home and had to pay to inherit the house she and the roommate had lived in. We have done something about this unfairness now. And even if it doesn't help the woman who first got up this case and created this majority on the Stortinget for it, it's at least something we can get fixed on in relation to people who in the future will be able to suffer the same unfortunate. I just want to focus on one thing in the end. So we're making a scheme where getting tax deductions is going to be more tied up to expenses for the acquisition of income. It has been a guiding principle for all parties. That is why I think the attack directed at the government parties because we increase the deduction from the union quota is extremely unreasonable. Because there is no doubt that paying money to trade unions is paying for someone to negotiate our wages. The representative of the Progress Party is well-known as a party who believes and has in its programmes, and has had quite a long time to have a more and more local wage formation and, to a lesser extent, through trade unionisation. I therefore understand that it is logical for the Progress Party to be against deduction of the trade union quota. But that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left also oppose this, I think is more strange. A former minister from the Right, Victor D. Norman, has, among other things, stressed the importance and need for good organisation and orderly working conditions, that they have an impact on the development of a stable economy in Norway. On the other hand, instead of wanting to increase the deductions for the payment to be made to the lots, it seems a little strange in relation to the principle that there should be expenditure on the acquisition of income which could be deducted from the tax return. There is no doubt that the people who have the largest properties in Oslo would pay 55 pst. of the property tax if it had been introduced in Oslo and that they would agree to see it so that supporting lots could be a cost to the acquisition of income. But I think, in the name of propriety, that's not what was either the thoughts of the Right Party, of the Christian People's Party or of the Left when they went in to increase this very thing. With that I say that I hope that this will be adopted – and I know it will be adopted – and that is basically quite good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e330	In recent years we have experienced greater growth in the private sector than in the public sector. This has led to greater private wealth and greater and wider participation in the labour market. The representative of Holmås, today and on previous occasions from this pulpit, has argued that growth in the private sector and growth in the public sector should be balanced. Speakers of the Government have pointed out that priority is now to be given to the public sector. This should include, inter alia: are made by increasing the taxation of labour and capital. My questions are as follows: Does the representative Holmås realise that there is a link between increasing private growth and increasing consumption and reducing the need for growth in the public sector, or does he believe that the public sector is equally in need of growth, despite the high level of private sector growth? In this case: Is the representative Holmås in favour of growth in the private economy, or does he believe that growth in the public sector can replace growth in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e339	I do not realize that it is so that growth in the private sector can replace growth in the public sector. On the contrary, I believe that over the last few years, we have learned that the gap that has evolved – and that has become very clear – between private wealth, which has evolved crooked and been distributed especially to a few, and what has been found in public, has been very damaging to society. There are several points you could've come up with. One of the important points here is the social distribution. The second is that you get a very big gap between what you kind of expect from the public when you experience a wealth growth yourself. It's a problem when, for example, There is a huge difference between what you can expect from your home computer and what you can expect from the computer that you actually need to be trained in when you are at school. So in addition, this has to do with social distribution. It is important to ensure that everyone gets involved in development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e349	SV had before the option three profiled cases when it applied tax. There was a lower depreciation rate, exemption from the document fee for newly established and lower taxes for those with low income. The swindling operation is therefore quite obvious when you read the setting of the day. None of these promises are fulfilled. On the other hand, high-wage workers receive the removal of payroll taxes and lower top taxes. It could be recorded that employees in the brokerage houses in Oslo were almost infidel when they saw this in the draft government budget. Of course, the cuts in top taxes are a consequence of the tax reform. It has been well known since Skauge presented its report in 2003. Nevertheless, SV and the Workers' Party denied that the reform had to result in a cut in the tax rates. They denied it all the way to election day. Then the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party came in position, and then they did the opposite. There is no doubt that the red-greens have sailed under false flags in terms of taxes on labour. Does the representative Holmås think that the criticism from the LO, from leading central party politicians and from the states of the Socialist Left Party is unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e360	I believe that there can be no doubt that the tax regime that we have presented is a fair tax system. It gives a completely different and fairer distribution than the tax system that the representative Torbjørn Hansen puts up. I would have liked him to show me one single stockbroker who does not own shares, who does not have much wealth, and who would not have jumped the champagne cork on the roof if it had been the Right who had won the election instead of SV. Right-hand tax relief would have been remarkably much greater than our tax relief on employee income is. There is no doubt that we were aware that we had to make changes to the tax system to ensure that the distinction between marginal taxes on labour and capital was changed. We will continue to try to create a fairer tax system in the years that come, because we are not satisfied that we have had to give tax relief to all those who have received it, but who did not need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e367	The representative Holmås was in on this with the union deduction. He wondered if we weren't concerned that more people were getting an incentive – that's how I understood it – to organize themselves. On the other hand, he did not mention anything like the Government, together with the majority today, kutter in the Bondevik Government's proposals for the State budget, namely the deduction of gifts given to non-governmental organisations. Should I understand the representative Holmås so that since the deduction of the quota is increased, does it seem to be a better contribution to society than gifts given to non-governmental organisations? I think it was interesting that the representative Holmås was involved in this by reviewing environmental taxes. That's something we in the Christian People's Party also look forward to. Can he give an indication of what fees he thinks should be increased and which could improve the situation for our environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e376	There's a lot we've looked at about environmental taxes, to take it first. One of the most important environmental taxes we have to make sure to get a review of is the car charges. We need to ensure that they contribute to lower emissions, since the transport sector is the sector after the oil sector that accounts for the largest share of CO2 emissions. After all, it's time to deal with a day like this, when the climate negotiations are about to start. My point was just to point out that expenditure on the acquisition of income is well anchored in being covered by the tax system we have. That is why we think it makes sense to deduct the union quota. That is at least one of the important reasons, while it is much more unclear to me what is the reason for giving money to other organisations and especially to parties. It is clear that we are in favour of giving money to non-governmental organisations, but I do not regard it as an important task for the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e388	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e391	To end the line exchange: I think it might be a little surprising what Holmås now says, that the value of voluntary civil society and non-governmental organisations is unclear for SV. It's a surprising closing replica from SV's side. I then turn to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration on Voluntary Policy, one of the headlines being ‘A New and Comprehensive Voluntary Policy’. Here it will be, among other things. point out that voluntary activities are changing and under pressure at a time when more and more professionals are becoming professionalised. There are several good measures in this chapter, but most of them are about what the state should do for volunteering. It's also a cross of thought. The only economic mechanism that particularly stimulates the voluntary nature of most people, tax exemptions for gifts to non-governmental organisations, is not mentioned in the chapter but refers to the chapter on taxes and taxes. Fortunately, the scheme is retained, with a deduction of NOK 12 000, but not extended to NOK 15 000, as proposed in the proposal of the Bondevik II Government. From our point of view, we're not sure what this means. Rightly, the Government says that one will retain the deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations, but there is reason to ask whether this good arrangement should suffer the same fate as the cash support. According to the Government, only the scheme is going to exist, while the amounts are totally unpredictable. If representatives of the Government Parties or the Government Councils can today guarantee that the tax exemption scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations will not be further reduced, this is an important clarification, not least for voluntary Norway. Following the new government’s presentation of draft budget for 2006, there has been some discussion of the distribution effects of tax changes. In this respect, it has been shown that a person tightens up the tax on wealth as an allowance for a reduction in the tax on capital goods. However, one of the measures you are taking, namely to increase the value of housing by 25 p.m., is in reality nothing but an indirect reintroduction of housing taxes, such as housing taxes. The Labour Party said in the election campaign that they should not reintroduce. At least a lot of people out in the country will experience it this way. This will not least affect many pensioners — yes, indeed many minimum pensioners — as this is not linked to wages but to wealth. In addition, these often have paid-down houses and do not benefit from the interest deduction. One might wonder how social this is! The third area I want to highlight is the changes in taxes and taxes on business. The main changes made by the Bondevik II government were a follow-up to the tax reform. This reform is an important element, not least in creating new jobs. It is good that there is now agreement on a deduction scheme for inheritance fees for generation change in family businesses. Most small and medium-sized enterprises in this country are so-called family businesses, where inheritance naturally becomes an important theme of generation change. I think therefore this will prove to be an important scheme for many companies that are going to undergo such a shift. What's not as good is the scarfs that happen in the payroll, the protection rate and the property tax. The fact that the new government reduces the screening rate should not be unexpected, but that one reduces the pay cut, which is an incentive to hire new people, I cannot understand is entirely in line with the new government's ambitions to reduce unemployment. Another change in relation to the Bondevik II government, which has been mentioned before today, is that it is not proposed to increase the depreciation rate on machines to 25 pst. Not least with a Minister of Finance from SV, it is strange that the very crown jewel of their industrial policy is now at best iced up. Another surprise is that agriculture and forestry will also receive a net tax boost from this government. In fact, the agricultural deduction is increased, but this is more than fed up by the scarfs in the wealth tax, the payroll deduction and the protection rate. The farming team calls this a ‘significant increase in taxes and taxes on agriculture’ and dictates a sharp increase of between 50 and 100 million. kr, based only on an increase in the Equation Tariff by 25 pst. Otherwise – and it will be my end – it is a pleasure for all of us that we can now ‘slip the ceiling’ in the years to come in a completely different way when we now grant exemptions from the VAT on living dance music. I am sure it will delight more than the representative Eirin Fallet!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e417	The representative of the Seven concluded his article by talking about the value added tax. I want to continue with the same theme, but for another sector. The government proposes to introduce VAT at the lowest rate on the rental of hotel rooms. This is the subject of a broad debate in the Financial Committee. The industry has stressed the need for some time before the introduction of the new scheme. This wish has been stressed by the majority in the Committee. The system is to be set in motion first from the autumn next year, but the Christian People's Party has opposed this and is strongly opposed to the requirement to start from the coming New Year. What is the reason why the Christian People’s Party will not listen to the desire of the industry and to which the majority of the committee has listened?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e424	First of all, it is the way in which the representative Sandal was concerned that we agree on this. I am also aware that parts of the industry have asked for the reform to be postponed to something later this year. So I'm going to answer the Sandal challenge of saying something I've learned from the current government parties: that's not all you want to do in a mature budget. Then there is also an answer I can give back here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e431	There are many things I could have grasped in the post of Hans Olav Syversen, but I thought I should limit myself to two things. One is the question of the increase of 25 pst, to which we have added, in the equation value of dwellings. It is now also true that in Oslo, among other things, there have been several difficult headlines in the newspapers that show how the equation value of the various dwellings varies enormously. So we're going to add up to keep the 30 pst roof. of the equation value, but we think it's right to equalise the difference and the injustice that has been there between large dwellings, which have been especially underpriced, i.e. undervalued in relation to the value of the equation, and other dwellings that have gone wrong. We believe that this will contribute to increased cohesion. And when we at the same time increase the tax base on wealth, it contributes overall to pensioners paying a smaller proportion of the property tax next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e438	It's like a minimum pensioner can sit in an old house in this town -- if we take it as an example -- and get some kind of upgrade and thus change in the equation tariffs, and get a completely different equation rate. I don't think the representative Holmås gets away from the fact that it can mean a significant tax tightening for them. Then there is something the representative Holmås has not included, which will also be an alert for the landlords, both in this city and elsewhere in the country. That is what the Government proposes, namely that, among other things, The valuation of wealth to a greater extent than at present shall reflect real values. I take it as a clear warning that this government will also look at lifting the restriction to which the representative Holmås referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e446	The Christian People's Party has very many voters with low incomes, very many followers of the principle of ability in tax policy and very many followers of a fair tax. What's unclear to me is what's now the Christian People's Party's way forward in the tax question. For example, the Christian People's Party of the former Bondevik II government went into order for one to take away the property tax. Then the first question might be: does it have to take away the wealth tax priority for the Christian People's Party rather than to facilitate the taxation of the low incomes? If one wants to take away the wealth tax, in that case, does the Christian People's Party have an alternative to the property tax, i.e. a tax on accumulated values that we have had in Norway's tax history from day 1 until today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e455	The priority of the Christian People's Party in fiscal policy is that we have a predictable tax system, a system that works and that also has a good distribution effect. But for us, it's probably so important to make sure that we actually get tax dollars, like what rates we have on the paper, and I understand that there's quite a consensus about that in this room. But with regard to the distribution, it might be good to remember that for each of the heads in increased deductions, the sitting government has provided 2.65 kroner in relief to those who have a top tax. There is no government that has managed such a weak distribution profile as the Stoltenberg government has in its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e460	Nature is your teacher, says Edvin Thorson, the creator of the success of Langedrag Nature Park in Buskerud. Certain tasks are best solved jointly. Regardless of majority and minority views, nature, based on years of experience, shows an amazing ability to find the wisest organization. The grey-grass herds meet the main challenges in common. Then they fly 73 pst. longer with the same efforts, means one to know. For us with a long professional experience, it is important knowledge to take with us to our own social organization. The centre party wants a large Community sector in order to achieve our objectives. Progressive taxes on income and wealth are important to mitigate the use of equity and taxes and to avoid property taxes, which are an unsocial form of taxation irrespective of the level of income. The centre party has tax in accordance with the carrying principle. This requires an active and progressive model of taxation of income, labour income and capital income. I am therefore pleased that one of the key steps taken by the new government in fiscal policy is to keep more of the progressiveness of the tax system compared to the previous government. In recent years, significant tax relief and system changes have been implemented while tax reform has been prepared. This has mainly ended up in the pockets of the most prosperous in society. It is worth noting that the Central Bureau of Statistics has calculated that 47 000 people would be at work if the government’s tax reliefs had been granted instead of the state budget for several jobs in health, school and care, for road construction and more job creation in business – and this without increased prices, interest rates or crown prices, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. It is an important central principle that taxes are, in their capacity, preserved and not significantly eroded. A progressive tax system is central to ensuring equalisation, equality, District Norway and full employment. The centre party is pleased that the sharing model and the RISK system are now being removed and that income taxes are being imposed on the income of persons. The centre party has long considered that tax-free dividends and the possibility of converting labour income into capital income have been the greatest injustice in our tax system. It is a pity that the interim dividend tax from the Plaza settlement in 2000 was lifted after one year and was not retained until a new system was in place, as the agreement was then. The abolition has given huge tax reliefs in contravention of the view of the Central Party on what is a fair tax system. Very much of the company's equity has been paid out, beyond what would otherwise have happened. We now see a massive tax adjustment through high yields and reports of extraordinary dividends from very many companies. These are the system effects that we would like to be in addition to, and that could have been avoided if it hadn't been for the taxpayers of the previous government. The centre party is pleased that one is now making changes to the property tax that protects the smallest wealth for increased taxation. Through increased deductions and the removal of the classification, this is an important step both for small savers and owners of industrial activities. This is a price change that needs to be continued. In this work it is important to go to the sources. In establishing the principle of an additional tax on labour-free income, property tax, as we received it more than 100 years ago, it was an objective that the individual taxpayer could have a wealth equal to three to four times gross annual income before the property was taxed in the form of special taxes. For the Centre Party, it is important to ensure a tax regime for business taxation that is predictable and long-term and thereby contributes to increased value creation. In particular, we need to focus on those parts of the business that are struggling with the worst income margins. Through a notified industry review of the business environment, tax policy will be a key element to be used. Furthermore, cooperatives and savings banks must have framework conditions for share capital and certificates of basic funds, respectively, which make this appear to be realistic alternatives to shares. It is important to adopt a new cooperative law, and this law must give the cooperative model greater opportunities for development. So the centre party wants to use the tax regulations tool, so that we can strengthen corporate forms that take more responsibility for society than the form of a corporation. Furthermore, personal ownership needs to be strengthened in order to be better aligned with the responsibilities of the many self-employed. It is important to continue what is now the Government's budget and tax decisions in such a way that we constantly perceive what is happening in our society, and that we are willing to develop the types and industries that especially need it. That's to show a premise so that we can ensure universality and justice in the tax system in the country ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e484	As we know, the progress party is aware of the framework conditions, and that is why we have entered into our alternative state budget to eliminate the chocolate and sugar products charge. This is a strange fee, a fee that you don't have in our neighboring country. Sweden, for example, does not have that charge, and this is therefore a threat to the jobs of the chocolate industry. There is not only a threat directly to these workplaces, but also to the subcontractors. Among other things, very many Norwegian dairy farmers depend on this industry for the delivery of milk. My question is: is the representative Lundtägen concerned about the chocolate industry, and that any deflagration of that industry would affect Norwegian dairy farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e491	The answer is simple, and that's yes. The part of the food industry that the representative Hageseter has now taken up is not large in the number of farms in Norway, but it is important. We know that several of the companies are in a situation where they are now facing key decisions about whether to have the business located in Norway or abroad. That's a good example of what I said in my main post that one must have a focus on what the situation is. The centre party wants to look further at the sugar and chocolate fee. Although neutral in relation to whether sugar and chocolate products are produced in Norway or abroad, it is important, as it contributes to a price level of goods in Norway that can facilitate border trade beyond what is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e496	The representative, Lundtigen, is concerned with business and business taxation, and he says in his statement that the tax rules must be used. In a reply earlier here today, he has also stated that we need to look at the situation of the different industries. In relation to tax rules, the former government’s proposals in terms of top taxes, wealth taxes, a better shielding deduction in the shareholder model and the profit reduction in the business model would give the industries often occupied by Lundtigen, namely forestry and agriculture, a better situation than is currently being achieved. Does the representative Lundtägen agree that the tax proposals of the outgoing government were better for these industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e503	For agricultural and forestry businessmen who earn a lot, it is obvious that the tax regime of the former government was better than the tax regime of the government that is now leading the country. On that point, I fully agree with Mr Fleet's representative. However, the situation is that few industries in Norway have lower average incomes than in primary industries. In view of this, the overall impact of taxation on the current government will be more favourable. However, it is central to take care of what I said about the specific nature and the situation of the individual industries in the future. Having a lot of wealth that is part of the activity does not help if it does not generate income. It has to take account of the tax, and at that point the new government has a great job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e508	In his last period here at Stortinget, at least for us who were not here, it seemed that Lundtägen in particular had a great commitment to housing taxes. We know that there is a proposal here today for an increase in the equation rates of 25 pst. It is also said in the Government's proposal that we will look at how we can actually get taxed property. My question to Lundtigen is whether he and the Zenterpartie believe that the dwelling is part of such a property that should be taxed more on the basis of its real value.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e515	The centre party is pleased that we are getting a stronger focus on housing, the taxation of housing and at all as we know it in Norway. The centre party is firmly attached to the tradition that it is a goal that everyone should be able to obtain their own home. The activity that takes place within the framework of housing is something great in the Norwegian tradition that we have to observe. If one then adds up to a tax based on the market value of the dwelling, we fundamentally break that tradition, because the dwelling has for most people – too much over 90 pst. – its value in the form that a person lives there, not to be a capital object or to make money on purchase and sale. Here we have an important tradition to maintain, while at the same time something central is that we also look at it when we are in a situation where we get a deduction from interest on debt for housing. This may lead to bias in other areas, which may be useful to adjust.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e522	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e526	For the Left, the tax system has some important main tasks: to provide public revenue to finance well-being, to stimulate right and environmentally friendly behaviour, and to contribute to increased value creation and the most efficient use of society's goods. In addition, it is crucial for the emergence and legitimacy of the tax system that it is perceived as fair and reasonably easy to understand for most people. For the Left, there has always been a goal of getting a fair tax system with a flat tax, so that equal income is taxed equally, regardless of how revenue is earned. The tax reform adopted by the Bondevik II government leads to significant improvements in this area. The tax reform was a central element of the economic policy pursued by the Cooperation Government and which the Left will continue in the coming years. The tax reform is, as we have repeatedly pointed out, almost a copy of the programme of the Left. In the past, the tax reform has been strongly criticised by both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV and has been described as unsocial and right-wing. Now the same batches end up cheaply on the main lines of the reform. It is clear that government participation opens the eyes to some harsh realities, but it becomes almost an X-Files experience to hear the head of SV as Minister of Finance talk about the need for equal taxation of wages and capital and thus provide significant tax relief to them with the highest wage incomes. For the Left, it is important that fiscal policy is based on a broad tax base and relatively low tax rates, and that the introduction of the shareholder model and a safeguard method should be seen in the context of a dwindling and long-term liquidation of the property tax. Indeed, the wealth tax has several serious weaknesses. It contributes, inter alia, to: for pensioners to pay close to 40 pst. of the taxes on wealth, although this group has a very close share of the country's values. The tax on wealth also works negatively by reducing the incentive for entrepreneurial activity and value creation. Combined with the other tax scarves, which are mainly targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises, the decisions that the majority are pushing through today are, unfortunately, very bad news for self-employed people, for small businesses and for Norwegian businesses in general. Had there been something in the government's promises to listen to the Storting, for example. to the Center Party Lars Peder Breck, much of this had been undone. This applies, inter alia, to: changes in the share tax, in the protection rate, in the remuneration deduction for individual enterprises, in the TaxFUNN scheme for unpaid labour for active owners, entrepreneurs and self-employed persons. All of this changes to the worse. During the lifetime of the Cooperative Government, a number of tax reliefs were implemented to small businesses and entrepreneurs. This also produced good results. More than 50,000 new businesses were launched. Now it seems that the goal is to get people out of private business and into the public sector. That's the wrong way to go. Not surprisingly, the Left Cooperation Government supports the proposals for the tax and tax profile. I would like to point out in particular that our approach involves an important and necessary follow-up to the principles of tax reform through equal taxation of labour and capital income and a tax shift from tax on income to tax on consumption. Follow-up to the tax reform, including: increased minimum deductions, maximum tax relief and reduced taxes on wealth and the simultaneous introduction of a shareholder model and a protection method ensure that all income groups receive lower taxes on labour. On the other hand, the government's arrangements provide tax incentives for many with normal employee income, while those with high employee incomes receive significant tax relief. Much of the total tax relief implemented by the Swedish Cooperative Government has benefited Norwegian businesses and thus Norwegian jobs. This has produced significant results, with record Nordics working and a record high number of business start-ups. The proposals to increase depreciation rates for machinery and to introduce reliefs for inheritance tax in family businesses are a continuation of this policy, which has produced documented results. It is regrettable that the Government does not see this, but pursues a policy that is consistently bad news for those who want to ensure the welfare of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e550	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e553	I was a little surprised by the rumors from the representative Kvassheim that the new government is now proposing that we take people out of the private sector and instead hire them in the public sector. Then I would like to ask the question: is it that the representative of Kvassheim has not come to realize that unemployment is going to go further down with this government than with what the previous government put up for, and that people are not going from private business, but are going to go from the unemployment queues to do work? Is the representative of Kvassheim aware that we are going to employ public employees to obtain, for example: the great effort we're going to have on the railways in particular? Doesn't he see that there will also lead more people into parts of that industry, where there are still free hands that can go in?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e560	At the time of the government change, there were more employed in Norway than ever before. One main explanation that more people are at work than ever before is that there is a basis for the start-up of new businesses and that there may be growth in existing establishments. This policy wanted the Co-operation Board to continue. The new government has changed the course in an area that has functioned and given lower leave. What is lacking in the Government, and in particular in the Swedish Government, is the understanding of the relationship between the creation of value added in business and the community tasks that can be carried out as a result of the tax revenue and the development it receives in the light of what is happening in business. What is now described by the Enterprise Association as a battle against small and medium-sized enterprises is also an estimate of the welfare society and its financing in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e572	Firstly, the representative Kvassheim blames himself for two rather significant misunderstandings. One is that if employment increases, it does not mean that the employment rate increases. So when the population grows, the same proportion of employment has to be kept if it's to stay up. I don't think the previous government has as good results as the number you're talking about. The other misunderstanding is that the vacancy was significantly higher when the previous government went off, than when it joined. Then I record that the representative Kvassheim is satisfied that there was a broad consensus on the tax reform. Yes, the Workers' Party has always agreed with the basic principles of tax reform, but we have disagreed on two essential points in the proposals of the previous government. One was to combine tax reform with a significant tax burden. We disagree with that, we've been, and we'll disagree with that. The second is the distribution profile of the tax reform, which we thought was wrong, among other things. as a result of the proposal for the relief and elimination of taxes on wealth, for which Kvassheim argues, but against which there was a substantial objection on the part of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e581	When the Bondevik II government took over, developments were negative when it came to employment. There was an increase in the number of unemployed, and that advised pessimism. This changed to an optimistic trend of record employment, and there is a link between the change and the policy pursued during the period set by the Bondevik II government. It was the policy that the Cooperation Government wanted to continue. As far as the taxes on wealth are concerned, one of the weaknesses of it is that it discriminates against active ownership, Norwegian ownership, and thus contributes to the development of the labour market in terms of ownership, which I thought was the opposite of the Workers' Party's wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e588	The Party Left is in opposition to the current rise, and the Government and Government parties want a good dialogue with the opposition parties. What is one of the unclear questions for us in the Central Party now, is what is the priority of the Left Party in the policy ahead? In the Bondevik II government they went in to take away the property tax. And I want to repeat the question to the Left, which I asked to the Christian People's Party: is there a position that will have priority in the future, also a priority rather than looking at the relief of income tax for low incomes? And in case one takes away the wealth tax: does the Left Party have any alternative, or does one want to go into the new epoch – which we have never been in the country before – with not having any kind of tax on accumulated capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e595	The current government parties are trying to produce a presentation of the cooperation government policy such as strengthening the business environment and building up welfare. That's not right! There has never been any more use of welfare tasks in Norway, the municipal sector, etc. than that carried out in the year of the Cooperative Government. It shows that it is possible to combine a good industrial policy with a good welfare policy. It is the priority of the Left in the future, to facilitate an active business that creates values, creates jobs, and provides the basis for ensuring well-being. In this picture, the wealth tax also comes into play, and I am amazed at how the Center Party approaches this when one knows how clearly they have broken their promise to do something about the wealth tax, not least the one that is linked to working capital, which was a fantasizing for the party in the election campaign, and which is no longer being discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e604	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e608	Initially, only a few brief comments on the discussion that was now taking place in the line change after Gunnar Kvassheim. In the government’s view, there is a significant imbalance between private and public consumption that needs to be corrected. The paradox that very many voters have seen every day is that their own ability to participate in a more or less buying party – not everyone, but many – has been in quite a contrast to the low standard one has perceived that there have been many public welfare services. It's an imbalance that our government wants to correct. I have some brief comments on the tax regime. The most important points of view I made in my main contribution to the financial debate, but this gives the opportunity to take some of the slightly smaller changes also a little bit more thoroughly. What is being treated today are many things that we have inherited from the Bondevik government and some things that we ourselves have promoted. The majority of the issues that are being dealt with here today are those in which our government has joined the arrangement of the former government. This applies, for example: Svalbard tax, and the Home PC scheme, and of course there are also changes in some rates. When, for example: on the minimum deduction, we have proposed to adjust the minimum deduction proposal to target the reliefs so that they benefit the low income groups. We have proposed to remove the increase in the gift deduction and the proposal to include political parties as recipients of gifts with income deductions. The government does not see it as a matter of priority to increase an already favourable deduction scheme in this round. We have proposed to remove the proposed increase in the annual savings amount of BSU – housing saving for young people. The government believes that the previous government's proposal for an increase would only affect the composition of savings and not the size of the total savings for young people. The government has followed up the tax reform in line with the Stortinget decision and the Soria Moria declaration. To present it as if it were the ‘ownership’ of the previous government to believe that taxes on labour and taxes on capital should be balanced is probably an inventory of the debate. This has been the big challenge in our tax system for decades, and there has been SV's main criticism of the tax system we have had, that the difference between taxes on labour and taxes on capital was so great, and that so many had a lot to gain from adapting. This adjustment has to be marginal, and we get a tax system that is fair not only on paper, but also in reality. We have increased the tax on wealth, and in particular we have arranged it so that those with large assets in shares have to pay more taxes on wealth. So there are fewer pensioners next year who have to pay taxes on wealth. It's so that while over 40 pst. pensioners receive lower taxes on wealth, receiving 19 pst. Increased taxes on wealth – because, of course, there is also a difference between pensioners. One element of the follow-up to the tax reform has been to extend the tax base by removing low or non-taxed benefits. Therefore, the Government has maintained the proposals to tax more on the employer’s coverage of telecommunications costs and to reduce the tax advantage of the Home PC scheme. We have also proposed removing the tax exemption for the benefit of the employer’s coverage of treatment insurance and sickness costs. The government believes that all benefits received from the employer should be taxed as much as possible equally. The current government has also continued the Bondevik II Government's proposal to revise the rules on tax on share gains realised after relocation. We have also continued the proposals on the adjustment of the tax reform to the tax system on Svalbard from the previous government. Under the law in force, spouses and cohabitants who have children in common are exempt from inheritance fees. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government is now proposing to extend the inheritance fee exemption to two persons who live together and have lived together for at least two years in a marriage-like relationship. This has no great proceeds from the state budget, but that means that some quite unreasonable cases in the extreme crisis situation of individuals are now corrected for later. We also have a number of other proposals, let me mention one that is important for parts of business, and this is about the introduction of VAT on travel. There we have met the industry's desire not to implement this until after the summer season, but there is an important change that leads to a greater level of non-discrimination in the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e634	In the government’s 2006 government budget, there is an increased tax on industrial capital in particular. It's a stronger dividend tax, and it's also a stronger wealth tax. This will lead to capital and jobs being moved out of the country, which unfortunately will affect all normal workers, LO members and others. Retractive nestle in SV, Audun Light Bin, also wants to go a step further. In today's VG, he is taking the order to remove Oslo Stock Exchange and to remove private property rights. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Does the Minister of Finance take a distance from the ideas/proposals for successive Vice-Presidents in SV, or is this something that the Minister of Finance and SV wants to work with in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e643	I can assure the Storting that neither the SV's programme nor the Soria Moria statement states that private ownership should be abolished, nor that the stock exchange should be closed. This government is not working on any secret plans about this. However, it is very important to be aware of how distorted the large assets in Norway are. That is the background to the Government's proposal for tax arrangements. Both in the case of capital income and in the case of wealth, it is the 10 pst. The richest in Norway that have really accumulated large values, and these values are now taxed in a more equitable way than before. It's a crazy and wanted policy, and it's a fair distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e648	In his review of the position, the Minister of Finance was in most cases, but I heard nothing about SV's big flag case on the business tax side, namely increased depreciation rates. I will not ask the Minister of Finance when she comes back with this, because she was asked about it in the financial debate – and answered something of course about ‘in connection with the budget’ etc. I would rather ask a question about the following: it has been the Socialist Left Party's justification that this has been of environmental importance to the employees of the companies. During the financial debate, however, the Minister of Finance stressed that this has now become a cyclical policy instrument and that the state of the economy is such that it is not necessary. Is it the case that the workers' environment no longer plays such an important role in the Socialist Left Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e653	The fact that SV has made proposals to change depreciation rates for machinery and equipment in industry in many contexts in the EEA has been a desire to stimulate modern and environmentally friendly production, and there is one argument for implementing such a tax change. But it is also important to see it in the context of the economic situation, because it is clear that today's situation is such that most of these businesses are doing well, with significant profits, and basically have the power to invest themselves in the equipment needed to have modern production. This is a proposal that we come back to, because it is a significant expenditure item related to it, and that is why it has not been promoted in this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e660	After so many debates and spontaneous questioning hours, it is almost tempting to say that we must stop meeting in this way – but it is difficult not to do so. I have had a few rounds of representatives from both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Senterpartie on the housing tax, and I have quoted the following, which is in St. prp. [[Laughter]] No 1 Appendix No 1:@item: inlistbox Adjective, language ‘The Government proposes, inter alia, that the valuation of wealth should reflect, to a greater extent than at present, real values.’ That's why I'm asking the Minister of Finance now, since it's been a little difficult to get answers in the past: does this mean that the housing is included in what's written here in the Ministry of Finance? And then I would like to ask about gift deductions: can the Minister of Finance guarantee that the amount of NOK 12 000 adopted today will not be reduced in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e674	To the end, I can say that the government has no plans to change the current amount limit, and we have continued the rate from 2005 in 2006. It is also the case that all budgets are treated as the budgets they are when they are presented, but we have no plans to change the amount of the grant deduction. So the property tax and the housing part of the property tax. It must be clearly noted that the changes made to the valuation of dwellings and shares have a very clear and clear distribution profile. There are several people who now do not pay taxes on wealth, and there is a clearer increase in relation to the largest wealth, whether in housing or in shares. With regard to the valuation of dwellings, it is also necessary to be aware that there is a screening method that allows a dwelling at that moment to reach over 30 pst. by what is the market value, action may be taken against it. This is simply to ensure that there is a fair tax on housing, but not an unreasonable tax on housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e681	According to today's VG, SV's Vice President wants to remove the stock exchange in order to ensure the survival of humanity. The purpose seems to be the best, the instrument totally hopeless. The slide wants to stop wrong and do something about ownership, and he wants to create a society where there is no need for stock exchange where jobs are speculated away. Now I understand from the Minister of Finance that she does not share the objective of her Vice President in terms of the stock exchange. But can we get some views from the Minister of Finance on the direction outlined by the Vice-President of the SV there is a need for ownership and social development? Will the Minister of Finance use fiscal policy to move society in the direction that Lightbakken believes there is such an urgent need to go in?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e686	As unfair as the world's resources are distributed, and as much power as the major market players have, the problem in Norwegian political debate is not that too many people ask questions about how this can be organised differently for the future, it's too few. After all, we want to have a discussion on how to ensure that a person takes more account of jobs, of production, of people's working lives, of people's rights in the labour market – all such issues – so that debate is very well tolerated. When it comes to government policy – what is to be implemented from year to year, and proposals to be promoted in the Storting – we are committed to two things. One is that we're going to have a business that has proper framework conditions and that has no excuses for moving parts of the production out. The second is that we're going to have a fair tax system. If you're going to have a fair tax system, you can't, as the Left has now begun, skip the wealth that's accumulated over the years. Then you also have to provide for a fair tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e693	The finance minister made a point that she thinks the resources are misdistributed in society. This can be evened out by either giving more tax and tax relief to those who need it the most, or giving tax incentives to, for example, tax incentives. those who are on the labour market and are in favour of new ideas being put into practice, thus also giving rise to new jobs. It'll go out on all the common people if this is ultimately carried far enough. My question is: What is most important for the SV and the Minister of Finance, to give tax relief to those who need it the most, or to give tax reinforcements to the so-called rich?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e701	Those who really have poor advice in Norway have little income at all — they are very much those who live on low social security or those who do not have social security rights at all and live on social assistance or need additional social assistance. If you really want to give a handshake to those who have the least in Norway, the tax system is not the most effective way to deal with it. But we want a fair tax, and that is why we need to see all the proposals we have made on this, in the context. After all, this government has said that we are going back to the level of taxation in 2004 and that we are going to use the community first to strengthen the part of the social economy that has suffered from congestion under the previous bourgeois government – that is the whole knowledge sector, the whole education sector, which we know is important industrial policy, and that is the whole care sector. And it's important both for the poor and the rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e708	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e711	Today when we are going to deal with the tax and tax system for next year, I think it is right to say that no one in this room thinks it is directly festive to impose taxes on goods and services on businesses and people in this country. However, I am sure I also have the vast majority with me when I claim that fees in different forms are unfortunately imperative for several reasons. Let me just point out two examples: firstly, fees are important to provide income for the community, so that we have money to do good care for the elderly, schools, cultural services and other things. In the current year, for example, we received more than NOK 127 billion in taxes and taxes from the petroleum industry if we include the CO2 tax. And in the budget for next year – what we are dealing with today – the state expects to receive NOK 157.8 billion in VAT. I think it's right to say that without these revenues, we could find it difficult to imagine a real welfare offer in Norway. In addition, charges have an important environmental perspective. The principle that the polluter should pay is ensured by charging. In this context, I think it is right for the majority of the parties to point out that Norway has a great obligation to meet our objectives under the Gothenburg Protocol. This agreement shall ensure 30 pst. reduction in NOx emissions by 2010. The government has announced that it is in the process of charging a fee differentiated after the emission of NOx. This may be an important instrument for reducing emissions. In addition to this, the majority of parties look forward to a change in the car tax system from 2007 which aims to transform the charging system in a more environmentally sound direction. Let me just point out some of the steps the majority parties are taking into the charging scheme for next year: The basic fee on disposable packaging is retained as announced in the Soria Moria declaration, and the fee is also reintroduced on plastic bottles.The proposal from Bondevik II to abolish the excise duty on chocolate and sugar confectionery is withdrawn from 1 December next year.The tax on non-alcoholic beverages is retained as at present. If we compare our proposal with that of the Bondevik II government, we increase the level of fees by NOK 1.3 billion. This is part of bringing the level of taxation back to the level of 2004 in order to strengthen the Community's revenue. There is a relatively large consensus among the parties in Norway on the mechanism and level of charges. But it's one exception, and it's the Progress Party. In this context, I would like to re-point out what we said about the Progress Party in the financial debate last week. Indeed, it is easy for the Progress Party to propose the removal or reduction of various types of charges when it comes to the freedom of the Progress Party in the other budgetary work. It is obvious to all those who have a certain economic understanding that removing the chocolate levy, reducing the taxes on petrol and diesel, tobacco and alcohol, to take a few examples, when you do this at the same time. spends almost 27 billion more of the future Pension Fund or Cuts close to $10 billion to the world's poor on the aid budget Such an approach rejects the majority parties. We support a charging scheme that is in line with what we said before the elections, which together contributes to increasing the income of the community and is in the service of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e760	First State Council Halvorsen: The Council of State repeated its message that there has been so-called bias in the growth of the private and public sectors. This she was supposed to fix. This means that growth in the private sector does not relieve growth in the public sector, but reinforces the need for public growth. This is relatively eye-catching information and, as far as I know, is not reflected in any economic theories, nor in the Ministry of Finance. Governments also repeated in their message that wealth is distributed unevenly among the population. This is a completely meaningless message. Yes, of course they are, and that must be it! Investments are financial assets and assets managed and saved privately. Property is not something you distribute! Assets are taxed funds that individuals have chosen not to consume. Property is the very basis for further industrial development, for innovation, for venture capital. There's nothing politicians should do because someone has and others don't have. So to my post: The last day's debate on the tax regime has been a strange vision. While there is a broad political consensus in other countries that the primary task of politicians is to facilitate increased economic growth through reduced taxes on investment capital, work and business, here we have a high-sound debate on which government options have given the biggest tax increases – I repeat: the tax increases! In a kind of gladiator's fight about who's best to flay the rich, representatives from the outgoing government and the government that's been attacked run up on this pulpit and claim that with exactly their tax arrangements it wouldn't be easy to be rich in Norway. For the few non-residents who follow the Norwegian economic debate, these developments must be quite astonishing. If it really is that the public sector in Norway does not have sufficient income, they might ask. Or is it the case that the private sector is floating over capital, so that money does not flow into areas that yield the best returns? Is it the case that Norwegian capitalists differ from all other countries' capitalists and that they will invest in Norway regardless of the level of taxation? No, strangely, that's not the way it is. The Norwegian state has never been richer, never before has the pressure on Norwegian jobs been greater, and never before has the Norwegian economy been more dependent on global developments. Despite this, both the previous government and today’s government believe that the Norwegian economy is best served by taxing the ‘rich’ as much as possible. In a populist race about the favor of voters, they both jump to the newspaper editorials and TV studios to convince them that with their tax arrangements, the rich will get dizzy. The party of progress has no faith in this clapping of those who own capital. On the contrary, we believe that the greatest possible capital must remain in the market so that it can contribute to increased value creation, higher economic growth and thereby greater revenues to the State. We don't join the populist short-circuit that takes place at the moment you try to imagine the voters that one penny in tax from those who have the most already means one penny more to distribute to those who have the least. However, such statements are good electoral campaign rhetoric, but in reality they reveal a lack of basic insight into market-economy mechanisms. The vast majority of economists accept that there is a link between reduced taxes and willingness to work and invest. In this context, it is interesting to consider what the different taxes mean from an income perspective for the country. The really big debate on next year's taxes has been the debate on property taxes. If one ignores the Government's basic position that the rich should be flogged, it is interesting to consider what the property tax means in income to the Norwegian state. The Progress Party proposes in its alternative budget to remove the Special Property Tax, thereby increasing access to risk capital in Norwegian business. The proceeds of this tax are a total of NOK 6.7 billion. The government's 2006 draft budget proposes that 316 billion be transferred to the Petroleum Fund. This is the surplus after the transfers to the State budget and the expenditure on extraction have been deducted. That's approximately equal to that. Eight hundred and sixty-six million. kr every day for all of the 365 days of the year. The costs of the Norwegian State by removing the entire taxes on wealth are therefore equivalent to seven-day transfers to the Petroleum Fund, i.e. one week’s transfers of net profits from the petroleum industry. At the same time, when it is known that the removal of taxes on wealth will lead to the preservation of several assets in Norway and will use them for investment activities in Norway, it says a little about the smallness of the Norwegian tax debate. While the nation of Norway has gone from being a relatively poor country in Europe to becoming the richest, the tax debate has been identical and just as predictable from year to year, as if our new revenues did not exist. In addition to the fact that the property tax has a positive impact on Norwegian business, the Progress Party also believes that Norway’s new huge revenues provide us with unique opportunities and that we cannot continue the same tax policy thinking as we did when the state’s revenues were scarce enough to cover the country’s necessary expenditure. We are therefore willing to use something more – and I stress: something more – of the enormous surplus. We want NOK 16 billion less in transfer – so we want to transfer NOK 300 billion, while the government wants to transfer NOK 316 billion. We want to invest in the future. As a curiosity, I can end by saying that in the tight 10 minutes I've been standing on this platform, the Petroleum Fund has increased by 6 million. kr – much to the satisfaction of employees and owners of our competitors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e794	Before the elections, the Right and Tax Reform were attacked by both the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party – by the Workers' Party and SV because they were opposed to reducing the upper tax in step 2 by the Progress Party because they were opposed to introducing the dividend tax without having been removed from the wealth tax. I am pleased that both the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party have turned around, that the current government parties are now accepting reduced top-level taxes in step 2 and that the Progress Party accepts the introduction of the dividend tax. Vips – then there is a majority of one important element in the tax reform: removing the injustice that has existed between taxes on labour and taxes on capital. It is, in fact, a unanimous increase that is now joining one of the key elements of the tax reform. But there were two more important elements. The second important element was to make sure that it would pay to work also for people with low and regular incomes, also for the shop worker who makes 150 000 or 200000 kroner a year, or for the consultant who might make 400000 kroner a year. There, the new tax proposal differs significantly from the old one, by ensuring that they also received tax relief. The third element of the tax reform is linked to stimulating value creation. There we now see the most important distinction between the new government and the old government. While the old man was concerned with stimulating value creation by, among other things, To reduce taxes on wealth, we see that the new government is increasing taxes on wealth. I note that representatives of the Government have assured the Norwegian people through their contributions that they will pay more taxes. We have previously been documented that it is much more nuanced than that. For the Right, tax relief is an instrument and, of course, no objective in itself. But we see that it is an instrument that has worked. After gradually reducing the tax over the last four years, we see that tax revenue has begun to grow, and now we see that tax revenue is growing more than what was assumed. This means that tax relief has contributed to the growth of the economy now making it possible to give more to the psychiatry, more to care and more to school. One of the most important issues in today's debate has been related to property taxes. The property tax is a special Norse tax on Norwegian capital invested in Norway. I record that both the Workers' Party and SV are trying to make the property tax a distribution policy tool. But the wealth tax is about national ownership, for which Lundt own has been a spokesman in the past. There can be no wealth tax at the same time as concern for national ownership, because the whole point of reducing property tax is that we should stimulate Norwegian ownership, to private Norwegian ownership. In addition, I think it is a pleasant extra gain that even pensioners, and even the minimum pensioners, get reduced taxes by reducing the property tax. Otherwise, I register that the representative Lundtigen wants a more practical tax system that takes into account both businesses and industries. But so far, the representative Lundtägen's contribution has been to join a government with SV who has been in principle opposed to the shipping tax system, it has been to oppose the proposal for new depreciation rules that would stimulate the purchase of new machinery. There has been an increase in taxes on wealth, which affect family-run enterprises, a reduction in the pay cut, which affects self-employed people — and there is a total tax on forestry. I otherwise record that the Minister of Finance and the SV-leader did not answer a question from Kvassheim about how she dealt with the proposal from the Lighthouse to remove the stock exchange and private property rights. I note that the Minister of Finance says that there is a debate we are «tolerating». Yes, of course, we tolerate that debate, and it will be exciting to see if SV can take it too. But the question was, in fact, how SV's leader and finance minister Kristin Halvorsen deal with it. Is it so that, sir? The slide, vice-leader in SV, has now been graduated – downgraded or upgraded – to be a debater, or is it such that the vice-leader in SV should also have an influence on policy, and that the Minister of Finance and the head of the SV also share some of his views? She did not at all answer the question of whether she wants to drag the development in the direction that the Light Hill expressed in its article in the VG today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e813	It's a little strange to hear speakers from the Right and Christian People's Party in today's debate describing all the optimism and all the faith that marked the last period of government. Now we have one measure of whether a government has faith and creates optimism in the population, and that happens in elections in September every four years. So we had that in the harvest, and then the Right Party and the Christian Party had a historically poor choice. For me, it is difficult to take it as an expression that the Norwegian people had a massive faith in the ability of the previous government to develop society, and that an optimism marked the faith of the Norwegian people in the work of the government. Rather, the majority of the population said that they wanted a different policy, they wanted other priorities, and not least wanted the other tax policy priorities. The position we have to deal with today is characterised by three key elements: firstly, the introduction of the new tax reform; secondly, the choice between welfare and tax relief; and thirdly, the distribution profile. Let me do it first. I note that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the basic principles of tax reform. That's good. It was also about the tax reform in 1992. In many ways, there have been similarities in both situations to the fact that there has been one government that has started work on the reform and another government that has completed its work. This has also helped to shape broad national compromises. I think that's good. At the same time, the Labour Party had, for its part, criticism of two essential points in relation to the proposal put forward by the previous government. In his post in Stortinget, Labour Party Chief Spokesman Tore Nordtun said: ‘The working party has two main objections to the tax return. First of all, they add up to a tax relief of NOK 12 billion. Such tax relief will have to be at the expense of important welfare schemes such as pensions, school and health. This is totally unacceptable for the Workers' Party.» The Labour Party has therefore disagreed with the choice of giving more tax reliefs in relation to tax reform and in relation to the overall economic balances, and that is also what characterises what is being treated today. This is where a tax reform is carried out without combining it with such tax relief. The representative of Nordtun went on to say: ‘The second main objection of the Workers’ Party is linked to the social profile of the proposal. Calculations show that the reform sketch lower the top tax, the dividend tax and the removal of the property tax and the housing tax provide persons with income above NOK 750000 with an average tax relief of more than NOK 36000.» On that point, too, we see a significant difference between the outline and the communication made by the previous government, by adopting today a tax regime that is combined with the tax reform, which will increase the wealth tax instead of removing it. The overall result is that higher income with normal distribution of shareholdings, dividends and wealth comes out with a higher tax than before, rather than relief, as the previous government provided. The basic principles are agreed, and it is important to implement such a reform, that there is consensus, among other things. on the need for convergence of tax rates on labour income and tax on capital income or dividends, and that we thus provide a basis for stability in the tax system. The second main question is whether tax relief or welfare should be chosen. I sometimes belong to representatives of the former government parties to present it as if there is no choice – tax relief is a motive in itself. I believe that one important consequence of the choice made by the former government parties in prioritising large tax concessions was that there was a reduction in the number of important welfare tasks. This has marked the political debate in Norway in recent years, namely the lack of satisfactory health, care and school services. An important result of the priority given by the new government, namely to commit itself to removing the tax concessions proposed by the Bondevik Government, and to applying a level of tax and tax that is DKK 3 billion higher next year than this year, is that it is precisely possible to prioritise more money for quality in school, care for the elderly and for patient treatment in hospitals, thus creating a better well-being for the population. Much of the debate on the tax regime and tax reform has been linked to the third element, namely the issue of distribution profile. The Labour Party, like the SV and the Central Party, strongly criticised the tax regime proposed by the Bondevik Government for 2005. If we look at the effects of that tax treatment, it was like one with $2 million. kr in income and which had a normal distribution of wealth and dividends, would receive a tax return of NOK 50000. We thought that was wrong, and we think that is wrong. If we look at the same person and the effects of the tax treatment for 2006, we see that the person in question is getting a tax boost of NOK 35000. We believe that this is more in relation to the basic wish that we have, that those who have a lot have to contribute something more to the community than they have done under the previous government. Then I hear that representatives from the Right, and not least from the Christian People's Party, place great emphasis on the fact that the distribution profile should be so much better in the tax arrangements presented by the previous government. I have a very big problem seeing that. It is that the previous government would give a tax burden of NOK 72 000 less for a person with income of SEK 5 million. kr and a normal distribution of wealth and dividends. 72 000 kroner less tax would have been paid by this person at the arrangement of the previous government compared to that of the new government. So it's right that a person with 150,000 kroner of income would also have received a lower tax. He wanted to get a NOK 1 lower tax per. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, It's the Right and Christian People's Party that manufactures as the big social profile, that one with 150 000 kroner of income had got this one krona per. So it's going to be 5 million. kr in income would receive NOK 72 000 less in tax burden next year than he would have received with the scheme provided by the new government. In my opinion, there is no doubt that the distribution effect is clearly better in the structure of the new government, not least in relation to the reinforced measures for groups of poor economy. I record that there have been questions about the changes in the property tax, there have been questions about the changes in the tax base for dwellings. First of all, governments have started from the Right and Christian People's Party – I mean even the pure Right Government – and have also taken into account increases in the tax rate on dwellings. It is a fairly common annual phenomenon to make an adjustment to the fare. So does this government. There have been many years since a readjustment of the tariff and an adjustment of 25 pst. is not at all dramatic in relation to general market developments – on the contrary. Then there's a part that manufactures it as if this brings the valuation of dwellings almost to market value. It's just nonsense. There is a special rule that says that anyone who believes that the property tax for the dwelling is up to 30 p.m. can present it to the equality authorities and set the value, so that it does not exceed 30 p.m. the market value. It is also the case that the wealth tax scheme presented also has a better social profile in itself than the one previously provided by the wealth tax scheme. It's true that some people get higher taxes on wealth. The tenth that has the highest income, yes, they get higher taxes on wealth, while the nine tenths that have lower income levels come out with lower taxes on wealth. If we look at the pensioners in isolation, we get 42 pst. by pensioners, lower taxes on wealth, while 19 pst. gets higher. Pensioners with low and average assets are facilitated by the proposals of the new government, while those with higher assets are given a boost in wealth taxes. It's also a result of a better social profile for the wealth taxing of pensioners, like the social profile of the rest of the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e855	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e858	I just want to make some comments until the last speaker was in. First of all, I notice that the positions are still dangling with what they're comparing to. In this way, they compare with the proposals of the Bondevik II Government, in other contexts they compare with the 2005 figures as they are today. I note the context in which the different comparisons come – at least it is not to light up the real changes that are taking place from the Bondevik II Government's proposal and from the proposal that is now before us. When it comes to housing taxes, the government itself has to answer for what you mean by what you have written. I'm quoting again: « The valuation of wealth to a greater extent than at present shall reflect real values.» [[...]] If this is what the representative Schjøtt Pedersen is saying, then there will be no further tightening of the housing tax, it's okay. But as we read in the settings, Schjøtt Pedersen and others have to understand that one wonders what the further taxation of housing will be in this country. With regard to the restriction rule to which it was now referred, it means nothing but that the majority in this Chamber can, if you want to – and you have a majority – change it for, as it says, bringing the valuation of wealth to reflect the real values. So I just have to remind you that, in terms of the social profile, the arrangement of the Stoltenberg government is so that for each of the heads you give in increments of the bottoms, you give two dollars and 65 dollars in increments of the tops. There is no government that has proposed such a big difference between them at the bottom and those at the top in terms of employee income.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e874	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e882	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e890	In the course of the debate, eight proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Drafts No. 5 and 6, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 7 and 8, by Gjermund Hageseter, on behalf of the Progress Party The Committee had nominated Odelstingen to make such decisions into laws:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1019	The President will first address proposal No. 6, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No. 19 June 1969 No. 66 on value added tax is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1151	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1479	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1552	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1583	The President will vote on a number of minority proposals, first proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1636	Proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party, the Right Party, the Christian Party, and the Left, are taken up to vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: [[tax laws]] in Sections 6-50, the following third paragraph is added: Deductions are made in income from donations of funds to political parties registered under Chapter 2 of the Law of 17 June 2005 No. 102 on certain aspects of the political parties [[Partial Law]] The current section 6-50 third to sixth paragraphs becomes the fourth to seventh paragraphs. II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2006 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1667	Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]] the second sentence of the present fifth paragraph of Sections 6-50 is replaced by the following: The maximum deduction for gifts under this paragraph is up to NOK 18 000 per year. II The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2006 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1697	Proposal No. 5, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]] the second sentence of the present fifth paragraph of Sections 6-50 is replaced by the following: The maximum deduction for gifts under this paragraph is up to NOK 15 000 per year. II The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2006 year of income.» The President assumes that the Progress Party will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1719	That's right!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1789	The party of progress has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1871	Here the President will address proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]] point (d) of the first paragraph of Sections 14 to 43 is replaced by the following: (d) passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, fixtures, etc. – 25 pst. II The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2006 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1940	Here the President will address proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]] in the third paragraph of Section 16-10, the first sentence is replaced by the following: Savings paid may not exceed NOK 20 000 per year. year of income. II The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2006 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e1971	It'll be over V and VII. We will be taken up to voting afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2020	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2302	The party of progress has announced that they are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2529	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2563	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2586	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2598	Here the President will address proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]] In Sections 6 to 20, point (II) is deleted; The amendment under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2006 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2633	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2684	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2717	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2811	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2893	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-29-lower.ana.ud1191e2903	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
