ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e28	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e31	On behalf of Mr Solholm, Mr Sortevik and myself, I would like to make a proposal for the conclusion of the European Patent Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e36	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e39	On behalf of the representatives of Lodve Solholm, Per Sandberg, Øystein Hedstrøm and myself, I would like to suggest that Innovation Norway's means of action is to a greater extent being made nationally aware.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e44	The representative Steinar Bastesen will make three private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e47	I want to make three proposals on behalf of myself. The first proposal is that DKK 30 billion of the year's revenue from the petroleum sector is used to complete the adopted racial protection measures and necessary road network expansions. The second proposal I am making concerns the development of a law on power company management to ensure that people are able to meet their basic need for electricity at a maximum price of consumer power within the minimum pensioners and multi-child families in their own house. The third proposal is that the fishing pension and the seafarer's pension should not be coordinated by incapacity and that fishermen and seafarers should be paid a fishing pension and a seafarer's pension regardless of coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e56	On behalf of the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Heidi Grande Røys, Jørund Leknes and myself, I would like to propose an action plan for the sustainable use of protected areas in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e61	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e85	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Council of State Dagfinn Højbråten State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson State Council Torild Skogsholm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Haakon Blankenborg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e109	I have a question for the Council of State for Development. I don't know if the Council of State has found out that the Vice President of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, has been in Africa. I had also not known whether VG was by chance in Gulu in Uganda exactly the same day that Siv Jensen was there. Of course, it has led to some comments, and what I'm building on is the questionable assumption that what's in the paper is right. But there, Siv Jensen says that she thinks it would be quite easy for the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party to agree on a common policy in this area, that is. development cooperation, in a government. It is now possible that Siv Jensen has the same relationship with development cooperation as the Prime Minister has with the EU – he becomes more positive when he is travelling. But if this is true, is the Council of State agreed that it would be possible for the two parties to cooperate on development policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e116	Then we'll hear what the state council has brought with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e119	I believe that the starting point of the Blankenborg representative's doubts about the correctness of various newspaper headlines must be included as an important reservation. But we in the Christian People's Party noticed, of course, the statements of Siv Jensen – they took place when the Christian People's Party had its national meeting. The opinions that agreement on a common policy could be possible in this area, I believe, quickly got a slightly different turn when the day after the important representatives of the Progress Party spoke in the opposite direction, and also when Siv Jensen said in later newspaper headlines and in the media that the state-to-state aid and the view on it stood firm, namely that the Progress Party was very critical and opposed to much of the state-to-state aid that is taking place, and that it should be primarily focused on voluntary organisations. This is contrary to the Christian People's Party's development policy, which is about to succeed in the fight against poverty and to lift millions of people out of poverty, we also need to build nations that function, states and institutions that can provide services for their people. In addition, as an important complement, non-governmental organisations and actors are particularly good providers. In other words, we need to pursue both policies – development policy – on trade, on debt, on investments, we need to reform aid and provide more and better assistance both through state and through other channels, and then we need to take the responsibility we have to solve the humanitarian problems through important grassroots efforts. This development policy has been joined by the Stortingen. The progress party was the only party that, at the hearing of the Foreign Affairs Committee, refrained from much of the suspension and had a completely different view. I can't see that Siv Jensen's statements have changed on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e124	As the Council of State did not believe what Siv Jensen said, I go on to part 2 of the observations, which relate to the content of development policy. Siv Jensen also says in the same paper that one has to ‘make far greater demands on those receiving assistance than is the case today. The requirement must be to establish democracy and human rights’. This is particularly true of Uganda. If it is true that there is no emphasis on democracy and human rights in development policy, as this should indicate, then it is the Minister for Development who has not done his job, for that is what both the magnificence and the government have said one should do. I would also like to see a view of the situation in Uganda and Norwegian development cooperation with Uganda.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e129	Action in relation to democracy and human rights and the requirements in this way are clear and unambiguous in Norwegian development policy. It also includes Uganda, and we are following developments there very closely. The situation is that there is a desire for the introduction of multi-party systems. This has also occurred following significant influences and pressures from international donors. There will be a referendum on this. We from the donor side probably question whether this is necessary under the Ugandan Constitution. We also believe that there is cause for concern over parts of the development of the regime in Uganda. A significant international pressure is now being exerted against President Museveni both to find a solution to the problems in northern Uganda, where Norway is also contributing to the peace process, and to the governance problems in that country. Time will show if we succeed, but we are now in a very critical phase, and Norway is following developments step by step and influences from Kampala and from Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e134	There will be three follow-up questions in this round – first Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e137	I record that there is still a long way between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in terms of assistance. Something else was probably not waiting either. The starting point for the question by the representative of Blankenborg was the tragic conflict in Uganda with the human suffering that follows in the wake of this conflict. Uganda is one of those countries in Africa that really need assistance and support, but above all they need peace, human rights, human dignity, etc. When Norway moved to the UN Security Council in 2001 for two years, we focused on conflict resolution, conflict prevention, and we focused on Africa. The three things are very closely linked. What will the Government now do to provide Africa and possibly Uganda with more peacekeeping forces, because they need peace, conflict resolution, conflict prevention and development?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e145	Let me first say that we believe that this government too has followed up the ambitions we had in the Security Council. We have also taken a particularly active position in relation to northern Uganda, and Norway has played a role and plays a role there right at the moment in the ongoing efforts to find a solution between LRA, i.e. Kony, and the Ugandan government. It must also be taken into account in the assessment of the delivery of the Ugandan government in relation to the sets of governance, we believe, whether this process will succeed or not. Similarly, we are exercising significant involvement in other parts of Africa, and it is when the Security Council itself decides that they will give a mandate to a UN force, that Norway can assess whether we should contribute. Since this government came in, it is primarily in relation to the great and extensive efforts in Sudan this is the case. Norway will be there with forces, and there, as far as we can understand, we also have the connection of Storting to the 30 observers that we are going to send from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e152	Bjørn Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e155	The representative of Blankenburg asked about the relationship between the Government and the party, the Progress Party, which is the parliamentary basis for this government here in the Chamber. I must say that the experience of the SV with the Progress Party and development policy has been positive in some areas. The party of progress was, for example, to assist the Government in creating an action plan for the environment and to ask the Government to clarify the cancellation of debt, etc. So we've seen some concrete, positive results of the Progress Party's policy. But the big problem is the volume of aid, that is, how much we're going to give, and how much we're going to redistribute to the poor. What does the Council of State do to get the Progress Party, the parliamentary basis, to support if perhaps the most important thing in aid policy, namely the volume?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e162	Let me say that I agree with Mr Jacobsen's assessment that there has also been a development in the Progress Party on development policy, and that in some areas we have seen positive signals and signs. We saw some examples in the setting. We've also seen some examples of that in the past. Nevertheless, both in terms of volume and in terms of device relative to the importance of strengthening the capacity of state institutions to combat poverty for their poor – the two areas – remain a significant distance. We will insist that there is a clear difference in policy here. It's only when we get delivered also in terms of volume that we can ensure that we can lift millions of people out of poverty. At the same time, we have also seen that the Progress Party in budgetary negotiations has been involved in a significant increase in aid. This happened two years ago, among others. It shows that there is also some form of pragmatism that takes place when finding solutions in the Storting. But it doesn't tell anything about possible government cooperation. The Christian People's Party stands firm in the view we have always had.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e169	Then comes the last follow-up question, from Morten Höglund, who well in this context represents the company that was the main subject of the question, Jensen & Partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e172	I would like to thank you for the attention given to our development policy. It's not every day we experience it in this room. The Christian People's Party makes a point of marking a distance from the Progress Party in development policy. I'm sure both parties could be worthy of that. But nevertheless, state-of-state aid is becoming almost a principle. I thought it was the fight against poverty that was the main point. In the last answer, to the representative Bjørn Jacobsen, the Council of State just pointed out a certain form of pragmatism. Can I ask for the same pragmatism on the part of the Government, that you are willing to sit down and evaluate the results of state-to-state assistance – what is the most important? – and that the Progress Party can also be a partner in future development cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e181	We do not, on the part of the Christian People's Party, make any point in itself of marking a distance from the Progress Party and the Development Policy area. We note that there are different views, and that is what I have also done in my answers in this debate. Nor do we make state-to-state assistance a principle in Norwegian aid. We just note that if you have to raise 20, 30, 35 million. people out of poverty in a country, providing education for everyone, not only do thousands of individual projects from non-governmental organisations benefit, then we need to have a education system and a education sector that can deliver this service to the entire population. And then state-to-state assistance is necessary. It's the fight against poverty and getting results for as many of the world's poor as possible that's important here. That's why we have the device we have on our development policy. And then, of course, we're going to evaluate the results. I think there is hardly any area in the state sector that has been so thoroughly evaluated as everything we do on the development side and in Norwegian aid, and we will continue to do so, because this is very important. And we're pragmatic. We cooperate on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e192	The only thing you're not allowed to be pragmatic about is speaking time! Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e197	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs. We have been made aware in a series of articles in the evening post of some extensive social security benefits, either by Nordics living abroad or others receiving social benefits from Norway, especially linked to unpaid pay. This includes, among other things: As a result, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has decided to set up a social security office in Spain, which appears to be very positive, given that there is indeed widespread social security abuse among the Nordics in that country. My main question is this: one thing is a good society like Spain, where we have good cooperation relations, but we also have Morocco and some other states, where it might not be fully transparent. My question to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is therefore: what is done to these countries, with the social-security abuse that is taking place there?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e206	It is quite right that the social security system is undertaking offensive work to combat social security abuse at all levels, even beyond the borders of the country. The initiative to strengthen this comprehensive work was taken several years ago. There are organized social security abuse teams all over the country. The use of resources in this field has also been reinforced, and it has produced good results. It is not that the initiative to establish a unit in Spain was taken as a reflection on the two articles of the Evening Post this weekend. It was, and is, a part of the systematic and planned approach to a social problem that it is absolutely necessary to actively work towards ensuring good trust in our welfare systems. The drugstore's got 10 million dollars. kr extra in the year’s budget for this work. New jobs are being created, increased efforts are being made to address the large group of Norwegian social security beneficiaries in Spain, and there are developing control reports, technical solutions and improved comparisons of registers within the framework permitted by data protection. The Social Security Agency shall develop cooperation agreements with other bodies and shall cooperate extensively with the EEAS and the embassies in relation to controls with countries other than Spain. In other words, extensive work is under way, covering the countries where there are a larger number of pensioners or beneficiaries with benefits from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e219	I fully agree with the views of the Council of State, and it is obvious that whether you live in Spain, Morocco, Thailand or Pakistan, you have to be treated equally. Drug abuse must be severely reduced wherever one is located. Spain is in the EEA area – there are agreements, it is reasonably transparent, and it is possible to establish good cooperation agreements from country to country on the monitoring bit and the verification, which it is about. Unfortunately, the Council of State does not answer my question: what is done, among other things. to the other countries where it is not as transparent? The series of articles in the Evening Post makes this quite clear and points out that between Norwegian and Moroccan citizenship can be queried, give different names, incomplete addresses, incorrect information, etc. It's important that we focus on this, even though it's reasonably closed and difficult to get into. So my question is, what is going to be done specifically to these groups, when we know that this is going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e231	I replied that the social security system has extensive cooperation with the foreign service, with the authorities of other countries and with other authorities in Norway in order to detect and follow up possible social security abuses by either illegally taking social security benefits out of the country — it can only be done under very specific conditions — or by means of hidden relocations, or by means of a move abroad, contrary to the conditions for receiving, for example. disability benefit from Norway, works to an extent that is not permitted. It goes without saying that it is more demanding to control abroad than in Norway. This means that these forms of abuse have received increased attention through, for example: the extensive cooperation initiated by the Social Security Act and anchored in the cooperation agreement with the relevant departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e238	There will be two follow-up questions – first John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e241	Drug abuse in domestic or foreign countries is an ugly form of crime, we all agree on that. We also agree that resources must be used to bring this to life. But this has an equivalent, and it applies to all of them at home in Norway among our own people who obviously do not get what they are entitled to for the care of family members, children and young people. I refer to a report recently on TV 2, where a mother is being eaten with a multi-disabled child with NOK 5000 a month to live for. Then this approaches public crime. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: Will we now also use resources to follow up our own at home and ensure that these people get their expenses covered and do not have financial problems in addition to the psychological burden of having this kind of child?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e250	The President will note that this is strictly a new main question and not an additional question, but the Council of State is free to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e253	With the fact that it comes from the same “company” as the main question, perhaps the President will allow it. I would like to remind you that there has been a significant escalation of efforts to combat abuse, and the number of reports has increased sharply, so that the crime that this constitutes is followed up. When it comes to the second question, my main answer is yes. The government is now working on its own strategy for families with disabled children, because we want society to relieve, support and coordinate itself more effectively in relation to the many complex needs of families with severely disabled children. That plan is the same around the corner. In the pension reform, we propose new pension entitlements for nursing care, and we will also review all welfare schemes in the extension of the labour and welfare reform proposed by the Government to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e264	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e267	Trust in welfare schemes is, as the Council of State says, entirely dependent on the detection of abuse, and also on the provision of benefits to those who need it. SV supports the Government’s efforts to detect social security abuse both in Norway and abroad. But it is also linked to, for example, how to allow working life to function in your own country, if there is an opportunity to work black. Then it's important, if you're to make sure you're safe from all kinds of abuse, to ensure a clean working life where black work and cheating are revealed. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs, who is also the Minister of Labour, whether he sees the clear connection there is between a work aimed at revealing abuse of and fraud in the social security system and the fight against black work and social dumping. It is very closely linked and has to go hand in hand if it is to be credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e276	There are several important contexts here. Trust in our welfare systems depends on people getting their rights – no more or less. Therefore, the control and follow-up of social security benefits is crucial to the confidence of the welfare society. Secondly, I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that there is a link between the fight against social security abuse and the fight against black work. Sometimes social security abuse is black work. For this reason, the public authorities responsible for this – and it sorts under several governments – are increasingly working together. The taxi action in Oslo is an example of how social security authorities, labour supervision, tax authorities, etc. approaches risk areas and reveals and follows-up abuse. Combating undeclared work is also a very important part of establishing and strengthening the foundations of our social systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e283	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e286	In advance of the EU enlargement, many of us were concerned about welcoming foreign workers to Norway, while insisting that they should be entitled to Norwegian salary and Norwegian working conditions. It's been pretty successful. There are many foreign workers coming looking for work, and many of them are really paid. But there was one thing we warned against, and the government put it completely passively and would not do anything about, and it was that foreign EU companies come to Norway and run social dumping. Otherwise, they offer their employees much lower wages and working conditions than we do in Norway. This week, the NRK has reported that the Labour Inspectorate has had racism in the construction industry and closes a lot of construction sites with foreign subcontractors. At the same time, there are reports of non-residents working too far below Norwegian salary. That is why I think there is reason to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State really agree with the Swedish Government that everyone working in Norway should have Norwegian pay and working conditions? And if he is, why hasn't he done anything to make sure that foreign companies working in Norway pay their people according to Norwegian pay and work conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e293	I guess it's not just in the press that the premises are going to be wrong; they're going to be here in the staging room too. It is the government's clear premise that in the Norwegian labour market we should have decent and tidy conditions. Therefore, the Government has proposed, and the Stortinget has adopted, a transitional arrangement in the context of the EEA enlargement, whereby citizens from new EU countries will have a residence permit in Norway which is linked to the fact that they also have work on Norwegian pay and working conditions. Therefore, from the earlier Act on the publication of collective agreements, which has proved useful by the fact that the subject matter of tariffs has made it applicable in Norway to some installations in the petroleum industry. We, together with the social partners, have a keen eye on developments in this area, because we do not want a trend towards unworthy employment in Norway. Wages and salaries are the responsibility of the parties. The General Public Service Act is a tool for the parties to require Norwegian collective bargaining agreements carried out within different parts of the labour market, and it is used. It has been used in the petroleum sector and is now active in the construction sector, where a case is being considered. What I want to say is that the government, in line with what we have promised in Stortinget, is now reviewing the experience of the transitional arrangements and the law of public disclosure, and we are doing it in close cooperation with the parties. We have set up an expert group that follows this closely, where the parties are represented. We will discuss this with the Parties to the Labour Policy Council in June, and in St.prp. No 1 I will report back to Stortinget about the result of this review.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e305	I just want to correct the council a little bit. It was actually us and the Workers' Party who took the initiative for these transitional arrangements, but the Government made the proposition afterwards, and we were very pleased about that. With all due respect, I believe that the answer shows a government council that does not follow up and gives power to its demands in relation to the desire to make sure that everyone who works in Norway has proper pay and working conditions. As far as I know, the Council of State has not taken any initiatives to ensure that the public service agreements apply to several industries, because it is precisely in this area that social dumping takes place. It happens in the workplace. The problem is that Norwegian, serious companies are being run into bankruptcy and redundancies because they are being competed through unfair competition from foreign companies, i.e. EU companies, which reward people lower. Then I ask again, in concrete terms: what will the Council of State do to ensure that serious companies are not exposed to unfair competition from companies that are dumping wages and weakening working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e314	I will clearly refute what the representative Holmås now says about the fact that the Council of State does not actively follow up the arrangements we have to counteract unfair and unworthy conditions in the Norwegian labour market. We have strengthened the supervisory resources in this area. I can inform you that, in the revised national budget on Friday, we will provide a further strengthening of the supervisory authorities in relation to precisely these tasks. We are now reviewing the experience of the scheme Stortinget itself has adopted. The General Public Service Act is not such that it is the authorities which are to impose and dictate the level of wages and salaries in the labour market. The parties are responsible for the salary level. The Parties have the Public Service Act as a tool and they use it. What we are doing with the parties now is reviewing the experience of the Public Procurement Act, among other things. with the documentation requirement, against which criticism has been raised, and the issue of dispute resolution arrangements when there are conflicts about the follow-up to a public tariff agreement. We have a close dialogue with the parties on this, and we come back to Stortinget with concrete proposals if the process so warrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e319	There will be three follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e322	They are the weakest in the labour market, which will be hit hardest by tougher conditions and wage dumping. It is a responsibility to ensure that it does not happen. It is notified to the NRK that a controversial web-portal where the unemployed are supposed to be substituting for each other in wages and salaries will open in Norway in August. After bidding rounds where the point is to be the lowest in wages and salaries, it will be up to the employer to choose whomever they want, according to salary requirements and qualifications. It's been such a portal, for example. in Germany, and it has helped to reduce wages in some industries by 15 pst. To date, the Government has accepted a proposal by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre that there should be at least the approval, registration and control of agencies involved in the provision and rental of labour in Norway. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is it the aim of the Council of State that wages in Norway should also be lowered when one has gone against a system that could ensure orderly conditions in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e331	The government is for orderly conditions on the labour market, including in terms of the provision of labour. Let me remind you that there was a broad majority in the United Kingdom that in its time went in to abolish the State monopoly on employment services. With regard to the specific web portal, I know it as much and as little as other newspaper readers today, and I want to be careful about going in and judging it. But what I can say quite clearly is that it will hardly have any significance in Norway, all the time it has to focus on unorganised unemployed and unorganised employers. However, through the Labour Inspectorate, we will look at what this is and how it is compared to Norwegian legislation and legislation. Otherwise, in line with what I said in my main reply to the representative Holmås, the Government will have an offensive follow-up to the framework and rules we agree to have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e343	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e346	Governments are concerned with tidy conditions. He's mostly talking about the private sector and the production life there. But also in the public sector, part of what is now happening is worrying. We see that there is an increasing unemployment, especially among women, in health and care work. This may be closely related to the weak economy of municipalities and health enterprises. It creates a double pressure for these sectors and arenas to now also absorb lower-paid non-resident labour. Does the Council of State see a danger here, and does he fear that this could mean that it is even less attractive to recruit and train for work in the health and care sector, because here too we can get a social dumping which makes it unsafe as the workplace for Norwegian workers and professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e353	Let me first say that in terms of employment in the nursing and teaching professions, it is considerably higher today than it was when this government took over. There are now over 30 000 more employed. Secondly, I do not have the great concern that social dumping should become a public sector problem, for the public sector is bound by public tariff agreements and the legislation applicable specifically to the public sector. I think it's an unjustified fear, but it's clear that public employers too have to deal with the framework and guidelines drawn up by the authorities, and they impose on the supervisory authorities to follow these frameworks and guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e360	Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen – to the last follow-up questions in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e363	We see that increasing labour migration is a fear of increasing unemployment and that the level of wage and working conditions in Norway is being threatened. It is worrying if the debate on labour immigration becomes angled so that it strengthens the fear of the future and creates hostile attitudes to immigrants. For the Labour Party, fighting social dumping is an overarching political goal. No employees, whatever their background, should be exploited by employers to increase their service. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial that we stop the employers who cynically exploit foreign labour and thus contribute to undermining serious activities and current pay and working conditions. Social dumping is not only a threat to workers, but it is also a threat to serious enterprises and their competitiveness. The Council of State now claims several times that the Government is acting in relation to these questions. The working party thinks it's happening very little. Why is the government so passive in these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e372	The fact that the government is passive in these questions does not become more true even if it repeats several times. What I have pointed out is that the Government is actively using the instruments adopted by the Storting in the context of transitional arrangements in the field of individual labour migration, and that the Public Service Act actually works according to its purpose in the field of services. Nor do we, as a result of EU enlargement, record a dramatic impact on the Norwegian labour market or on Norwegian social schemes, as we get the impression. I fully agree with the premises in the question to the representative Uppøen Hansen, but I cannot agree that the fact that we are actively monitoring the situation with the parties, that we have invited the social partners and other opinion-able parties to an evaluation of how this works, and that I warn that I will return to the Stortinget with the results of it, is an expression of inaction. I don't want to accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e380	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e383	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. In several countries, promises of progress in road projects have created optimism with regard to the management of this flooding period. But after a while, there's a counter-declaration, that progress isn't real, and then it creates frustration among people. I can cite examples from one state, Hordaland: the Bergen program, the Jondal tunnel and Hardangerbrua are projects that one previously promised would come in this period. Let me take Hardangerbrua as a typical example: at a public meeting as late as April this year promised representatives from the government party, and pointed out to the government council, that the matter would come in the spring session. Immediately afterwards, an external quality assurance bidding competition will be launched at Hardangerbrua, with a deadline of 1 August 2005. It is obvious that the promises of the public meeting have been given against better knowledge. Does the Council of State understand that this leads to frustration and irritation among people?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e394	I guess it's not unusual that a lot of parties get involved with a lot of projects in the time we're in now. It is quite right that it has been expressed that we aim to present more issues in the spring session, matters that we actually still aim to present. Now it is a well-known matter that no government councillor or any employee around the Council of State can guarantee anything in relation to the treatment of the Storting, but I am therefore aiming to present to the Stortinget several things that have been mentioned in the spring session – which is known as a whole until a new big deal comes together. Now Hardangerbrua was mentioned specifically, and it was shown that work on quality assurance has now been started. It is a process for which the Storting has given its consent, so I have recently been a little surprised that there is a question mark about this. We will do this, including: in order for the Grand total to have a sound basis for decision when the case is brought before it. The pace we have in presenting this matter is very high. I think we have barely had such a pace as we have had in the work relating to the matters mentioned – Hardangerbrua in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e403	My starting point was neither the scope nor the content of the distribution work in the various cases. My starting point is that there are promises about a time, when it is not possible to keep these promises. When it is promised in April that the case of Hardangerbrua will come in the spring, it is quite impossible when an offer document with a response deadline is published in August. Governments are probably also aware of the time when the Storting goes from each other. Although the ageing period does not end before 1 October, it is unusual for matters to be submitted that are expected to be dealt with in the summer months. So people are frustrated that things will be too late to be dealt with before the Storting goes from each other before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e408	When the representative here says that it is obviously not possible to present the matter in the spring session, which improperly lasts until new accumulation comes together, the representative knows more than I do. I still have the goal of presenting more issues in the spring session. I have, as I said, never stated when the Storting was going to deal with this, because I have no authority to say anything about it. I still react a little to adding opinions and processes that we have never presented. I still have a strong wish – and aim – to have more issues presented in this session, without of course I can guarantee that Stortinget will deal with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e415	There will be four follow-up questions – first the Rune Skjellaa.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e418	I wonder a little bit about the communication between the government parties here in Stortinget and the Government. Petter Løvik from the Right, head of the Transport Committee, promised the party would have Hardangerbrua before the Stortinget before the holiday. He said that on April 4 at a very, very nice public meeting in Eidfjord. Terje Breivik of Left wanted to kill the myth that his party was against the construction of the bridge, and guaranteed on behalf of the Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm that the government would promote the sale in the Stortinget of the construction of Hardangerbrua. My question is: is this about poor communication between the government parties here in the Stortinget and the Government, or is it so that the government parties and the Left, at the Secretary-General, people talk by mouth and make promises at public meetings? Everyone went home and was sure that now, in fact, Hardangerbrua was secure – so one gives the impression of a progress in a matter that is not going to happen at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e425	I still wonder about the problem. The size is known of the processes to be implemented in relation to these types of projects. It has been suggested by the Government, and the Storting has joined it. I have previously attended hearings in Stortinget where the need to have a solid basis before the Storing makes decisions has been underlined. That's what we're following up on when we're quality assurance. When several representatives know that the project has now been sent out for quality assurance, it is quite obvious that we need to have a high rate of speed in order to be able to promote the matter in this large-scale session. I still have the goal that we should manage to advance various issues, as has been mentioned here, during the session. What other big business representatives have said about the matter, I cannot comment on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e432	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e435	Now there are no new rules on quality assurance from April 4 to now that would mean that one cannot get the case in our company. I really have to say that I am wondering about the progress of the matters that the representative called Ringstad mentioned, but also in other matters. The mountain program was very sure that we would get it. The same is true of Hardangerbrua and the Jondal Tunnel. There are several projects in Rogaland we're waiting for, and I'm wondering what's going on. Is the Council of State and the Government on the way out? Do they relax? In addition to Stortinget, we have had the capacity to deal with several issues. The matters we have received in the spring from the Ministry of Transport are relatively small and few. We have had more capacity to deal with matters. I wonder, then, that the Council of State doesn't fit in with issues, so that we can use this ageing period in an active way, in a field that is so important to people around this country. What's going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e440	I'm recording that the election campaign is in full swing, and I guess that's okay. It is such that when a case is either local or in the Directorate of Roads, the Department or Government cannot promote the case until it is fully prepared. I know very well that the representative is well aware of the processes to be set up before a case is presented to Stortinget. No one believes that we should accept a case in the department and without going through the matter present it to Stortinget. I'll think there'll be a big deal present after the election, so that good things that'll be coming, a new big deal will treat quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e450	The President can confirm the assumption that there will be a big deal even after the election, unless there are completely unforeseen things happening. Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e457	It is quite obvious that it is very important that we, as politicians, are despicable when we are involved in promising money for starting projects. The issue of transport projects such as: has been mentioned here, is that there are so extensive investigations that it in itself delays the process and causes these things to take a very long time. The cases are thus late for Stortinget. It's quite obvious. Now we're almost in the middle of May. Then the question is what the Council of State really expects the Storting to achieve is serious treatment. In order to speed up the implementation of these projects in the future, the question to the Council of State will be whether it will now ensure that there are less extensive investigations. We're talking here about major impact assessments to get it started. The question then is: will the Council of State take an initiative, so that we can speed up the launch of projects for the Storting, adopted and launched, for the benefit of the Norwegian people and the business community?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e462	I want to remind you that many of the investigations we're talking about are completed before they come to us. We are now talking about quality assurances that we have to implement. I would like to remind you of the hearings that have been carried out precisely because the Storting has considered that there has been a lack of decision-making basis. There have been overcosts that have been large. That's why I think it's an important point that when we put matters forward, we should have a good foundation. Then I would also like to remind you that with regard to the quality assurance processes we have set up, it has to be both predictable how long it will take, and it has to go quickly. It's going to be my intention in the future as well. I'm recording that right in this spring session, these questions are coming up, but I'm taking it as an eagerness compared to the fact that we want a lot of projects, which are important to people around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e469	Steinar Bastesen - for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e472	The Council of State said that the start of a road project could create a good deal of optimism in society. Yeah, I totally agree with that. But we have a lot of road projects that end in loose air or in the mountain wall. It doesn't create much optimism. The completion of Hardangerbrua is also important. Is it not time for the Council of State to demand its office to complete the matter so that it can be dealt with? When can we expect the start of road projects to be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e479	I can assure you that we are working very intensively to implement the projects we are starting up. We have a policy that we do not complete adopted projects, but that we are actually completing them. When there are many projects that different representatives want to present, it may not be unnatural for them to appear now. We do what we can to get any case submitted as quickly as possible. It's important for people around, and for business, not least, that we have good transport solutions. This government has placed great emphasis on having a good standard of transport solutions – they have to be effective, they have to be safe and they have to be environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e486	The President wants us to have room for two more key questions, but we must then be considerably more restrictive in terms of access to supplementary questions. So we're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e491	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport another question. I have argued that the Minister for Trade not only accepts matters, but in fact also governs the department she is renting, and can take the initiative to get things done. I argued that the Council of State also knew that there were major problems, among other things. in the road sector in Norway. There is a background on maintenance, there is a dispensation in a few states, and regions report that they do not set targets. It's every week connected road, lately in Hardanger. It is every day that people are afraid to send their children out on the roads because they are afraid of race, and it is every day that people are in line – at the same time, the State Road Administration could not use up about. 750 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. Because we could have gotten 7.5 km wide four-field highway, we could have race protection corresponding to the four-year budget, and we could have improved the E6 north of Alta two times. Then I ask the Council of State: how can this happen, that while we have such a great need to use pesticides, we can't even use up our permissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e500	It is true that there are funds that were not used in the last year, but are tied up in projects that are in full operation – either they are already in operation or they are now in operation. So what's going on here is a time frame. There is no money at the disposal, there are projects on the way, and there are often very important projects. It's absolutely right that, for example, racial protection is important. Therefore, this government has chosen to increase its efforts in the field of racial protection in this period in relation to what was done in the previous period. The fact that people have to feel safe in everyday life means a lot, whether you live in town or you live in areas where there is race. That is why we have placed great emphasis on the whole of our policy that when we plan projects, when building new projects or repairing existing road solutions, we take extra account of the safety of the design of the solutions. We have a lag in relation to maintenance. Therefore, this government has chosen to increase the appropriations for Item 23 for operation and maintenance in the road sector; it is important to raise the level in relation to road safety wherever it is necessary to live in that country. What we've seen then is that we've got the activity up in several areas of road safety. We see that it's been used less for asphalt, which has caused concern in some states. That is what I intend to follow up by taking a review of the use of funds for asphalt, while at the same time we have an efficiency improvement that means that we have done much more for the same means than we had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e509	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which at best commuted a little into what was my main problem. So we have money that we haven't spent, and we have a lot of exact needs. No response was given. I would like to remind the council that when Vegvesenet was reorganized, SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre were in favour of a divisional model. We wanted the Vegvesen to have some tasks, which were not to be offered, and we wanted it to go much longer – it was also Vegvesen's own recommendation. Can't the Council of States now admit that it's because we've gone too fast with this competition, that we're sitting with money on a book, and so we can't improve the roads that were supposed to be better off with the money? I would like to ask the Council of State – to be forward-looking: will she reconsider this, and can she guarantee that this year and next year, when we have to increase the roadways by NOK 1 billion, has a device that makes it possible to follow up this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e516	I'm not completely familiar with the description of the situation. It is true that there is money that was not used last year, but they are in use now. There is also reason to stress that there is no desirable situation that should be such from one year to the next. There are already activities in place to prevent this from happening when we go into a new year. I would also like to stress that the competitive outlook has given us a great efficiency gain, an efficiency gain that means that we get implemented much more than before. Then we're talking about a net efficiency gain of hundreds of millions. For 2005, we are talking about a net efficiency gain of approx. 300 million. kr, and for 2007 on a net efficiency gain of 850 million. kr. This means that we can maintain a level of activity in the road sector that is significantly larger than today, and that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e524	We go on to the last main question in today's oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e527	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Development, and be allowed to come back to Uganda a little bit. The United Kingdom has recently announced a cut in the state-to-state aid to Uganda due to a lack of democratic reform and a general concern for the development of the country, and efforts are being made to cut aid pressure. Will the Council of States share the concern of the United Kingdom for democratic development and will the Council of States follow up the detention of parts of Norwegian aid to Uganda to contribute to a coordinated international pressure against the authorities of Uganda?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e536	Norway is in a very close consultation process with the most central donors in Uganda, among others. United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark. It is the most central to the so-called social fund under the Ugandan state budget — some with direct budget support. We are now in a process linked to the next financial year, and we are in the process of these consultations. Because of the process in relation to own allocations, the British first came out, but nothing is done in this process now that is not coordinated between the most central donors. We are therefore assessing the current situation in relation to the constitutional process in Parliament, which is currently under way. We consider President Museveni's own signals in relation to the regime and the fight against corruption. We are now assessing how they deliver in relation to the peace process in northern Uganda, where Norway is very central. And last, but not least: we evaluate how they deliver in relation to financial management. These questions are now the basis for the assessment of Norwegian aid. We do not exclude that there may be consequences in terms of level, but the conclusion is not yet drawn. It shall be done jointly with the other donors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e545	I would like to thank you for your answer. The United Kingdom also withheld funds last year because of concerns about lack of reforms. As far as I know, Norway did not follow this up at the time. If there's anything positive about what you're doing right now, that's fine. But can the Council of State say anything more about how she assesses the democratic situation in Uganda? She says that you make a continuous assessment. But what are her views on the human rights situation, on democratic development? Is it pointing in the right direction, or is this a cause for serious concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e552	Uganda has been among the so-called reform-oriented countries. President Museveni has been among those who have delivered the best in the fight against HIV/AIDS — reverse the epidemic — in terms of education, and in terms of improving the governance that was miserable when he took over. We have seen a trend in recent years that points in a more worrying direction. We do not yet know whether the decisions that many believe will be taken will be – among other things. whether President Museveni will take a third presidential term. The decision on his part is not publicly known, and it is not made as far as we know. But there is a basis for this in Parliament's constitutional process. We have expressed our dissatisfaction with it clearly and unequivocally, both with other donors and from Norwegian side alone, in conversation with the President and also in letters to the «burdening president» – which is not called in Uganda, but similar – and to the Minister of Finance. We are, as I said, in close dialogue now. The situation is worrying, but we do not yet know whether it is going in a direction we can be concerned about. We can only draw that conclusion later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e561	Then the last word fell into today's oral Question Time, and we go over to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e567	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research who directs him. Question 7, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e582	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘A family from Kosovo applied for asylum in January 2003. The receipt was dropped. In June 2004, they got an apartment in the municipality of Skånland. The youngest son has brain damage, infantile epilepsy, blindness, and major developmental disorders, both mentally and physically. UDI has paid for the apartment and nursery services 3 days per person. week. He has been closely following up both the 1st and 2nd line service. On 2 May the family finally received a refusal. Is the rejection the result of the new rules in which review procedures have been strengthened for particularly strong human reasons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e596	The new rules restricting the ability of foreign authorities to reverse previous decisions, to which a majority of the Grand Duchy has acceded, have not yet entered into force but are expected to enter into force during May. Thus, the Kosovar Albanian family to which reference has been made has been assessed under existing legislation. I find other reason to stress that when the new rules come into force, they will only narrow down the right of conversion of the foreign student after the final decision has been taken. In the context of the ordinary review of the Decision of the Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs — as in this case — the assessment theme will continue to be the existence of ‘strong human interests’ and not ‘particularly strong human interests’. It is only after the denominator has decided a case that the decision is to be considered final. Thus, even with the new rules, the theme of the assessment of the foreign student by ordinary review procedure will include the existence of ‘strong human interests’. And that's what's been the subject of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e609	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, there is reason for concern when it is such that this case does not fall within the concept of ‘strong human interests’. If this case is to be brought before the Court following final decisions and the new rules will now be put into effect, then ‘particularly strong human interests’ will apply and it will be even more difficult to reverse the decision. The Labour Party has always disagreed with the Government and the Advance Party that ‘strong human interests’ should be changed to ‘very strong human interests’. I believe that the matter that we are dealing with now confirms this. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of State whether there will be issues that may come under «particularly strong human considerations», when this matter does not fall under «strong human concerns».
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e618	I would like to remind you that Stortinget does not carry out an individual case handling, and I do not. Therefore, I do not submit any instructions as to whether this case should have been adopted or not. I do not believe that the representative Signe Eye should have done so in the form she now expressed. It is to break the law and the type of governance for which she has been involved, namely that individual matters are dealt with by the non-resident administration. That's why we can't use Storting's pulpit to get straight with a single case decision, because then we get involved in the division of labour that is. Otherwise, I do not think it is possible to use matters that have been adopted as examples of the results of a law that has not yet entered into force. I think it'll be obvious to most people that a code that hasn't come into force can't be used as an example either. When the assessment theme is not the same either – and it has been an ordinary complaint procedure – I think it is a sought-after issue. I really think we should be clearer about what roles we have assigned ourselves in relation to individual proceedings in the foreign administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e625	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I know very well what both the Council of State and I can do in relation to a single matter. However, it is important for us to use individual cases as examples to see how the legislation is handled, because that is when we can see whether there is a need to change the legislation. In this case, we have a family who came to Norway two and a half years ago, and a lot of resources have been spent on treatment with follow-up, and now it turns out that good progress has been made. When one has spent two and a half years dealing with the matter and then suddenly says in May that now it is out, does the Council agree that the entire treatment has been discarded?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e634	I cannot go into that kind of assessment when I do not consider individual cases. I cannot say about the treatment that the child in this family has received in a medical environment has been discarded or not. I am neither a medical expert nor an expert in these foreign affairs. I have a role to play in relation to the general legislation. Using Storting's pulpit to assess the exercise of discretion in the foreign administration, I don't think big business representatives should do that. I actually think it's breaking the rules you've set for who has what roles in this context. I am a little stated that the Storting itself does not establish any guidelines on how such matters should be dealt with, and what is legitimate in relation to the law when dealing with such matters. So to the question of the principle in this case. So it's in the foreign administration. The question that can, of course, become a topic for emphasising medical treatment and other aspects is: Is it the case that the institution of asylum should also be an institute for people in need of treatment to receive treatment in Norway if treatment is not as good in their home country? It is an opening of the institution of asylum which is quite large and with which we have problems with Kosovo on a daily basis, because there is a great flow from Kosovo of people with medical problems who hope to be able to become and who hope to get better treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e647	This question, from Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e650	I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘The Tyrili Foundation, with several schools in Norway, is struggling financially and, in the worst case, must be closed if they do not receive financial resources. This is very bad and in the long run harmful to the many who get help here. What will the Council of State do to enable operations to continue to run out of the year, and to make the appropriations permanent and preferably based on unit-price financing?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e659	Public funds for primary and secondary education are allocated mainly as part of the framework transfers to the local government sector. The Ministry therefore has no funds available in its budget for grants to the school activities of this institution. The responsibility for the training of patients in private health institutions lies with patients' residence municipalities in the case of primary school education and with patients' residence counties in the case of secondary education. The Ministry has been in contact with most of the country's about 100 000 people. 40 private drug institutions. The majority of institutions have different types of institutional training, but the content, scale and organisation of training vary greatly. Training is provided such as: have elements of both primary and secondary education, general social orientation, counselling and vocational guidance. The institutions also provide training which cannot be defined as training in the sense of the Training Act, for example: different types of practical training and training for different certificates. Consequently, this type of training is not the responsibility of municipalities and counties, and in such cases it may be relevant with support from, for example: the set of labour markets. Training provided is also often given regardless of whether the patient has formal training rights under the Training Act or not. It is not relevant for me, as mentioned above, to accept short-term solutions for one institution. However, with regard to longer-term solutions, I have started work to assess whether current legislation and funding arrangements for the training of patients at private health institutions are appropriate. In cooperation with the departments concerned, different alternative solutions will be considered. I will come back to Stortinget with the result of this work. I am concerned that the legislation on training responsibilities should also ensure good provision for patients in private health institutions and that the legislation should be precise and easy to practice. In the work currently in progress, it is therefore important to find future solutions that are adapted to schooling at all institutions, and the various variations of training that we know are among these. Not least, it becomes important that the final solution becomes such that it can actually remain standing as a long-term solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e674	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which might not have been positive in the short term, but which at least in the longer term was positive. It is clear that many people around Norway need this kind of help. We all agree on that. For me, it is not important whether the institutions are public or private; the important thing is that there are institutions that can provide this kind of help to those who need it. Originally the question was asked to another minister. As we now hear from the Minister's answer, there are many departments that can participate and contribute to the economics of this, so that, among other things, The Tyril Foundation can continue. Now a budget is to be submitted on Friday. Then we hope that there is some money there, because money is needed to keep this going. It is on the basis that I am raising this matter on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e683	Without going into the Tyril Foundation and the current situation there in particular, I agree that this is positive, because this is potentially a type of institution that can fall between many public chairs, whether there are different central, regional, local levels or there are different laws, sectors, departments, etc. I am concerned that a solution is found that is sustainable and predictable and necessarily involves more departments and perhaps more levels of administration. So it is to find out what is predictable for the institutions that I have taken the initiative in this work. I fully agree that the work done is very positive, and you can't push the training activities that are going on, into a narrow framework so that it fits into one law or department.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e690	I thank the Council once again for a positive response. I believe that, together, we, both magnificence representatives and ministers and the various departments, will be able to find a solution to this. As late as today we could read in the online newspaper that only in Oslo there are several thousand who need this kind of help. And if I remember correctly, it's just a dozen free places -- if there's any available ones at all. There's a lot of people on the waiting list. But it doesn't help those on the waiting list, because while you're on the waiting list, there's a lot that can happen. When you finally get the square, it might be too late; you might be in a different situation. We're going to hope that something positive comes out of this, and I'm going to interpret the Council of State to that it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e699	I'm just repeating that we're coming back to Stortinget with a solution when we find out after a closer investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e708	My question is like this: ‘The responsibility for supervision of primary and secondary schools has been added to the education departments of the various county offices. Public schools are supervised by visits to municipalities and county councils and thus not to individual schools. This means that employees, pupils and parents are not contacted or ‘heard’ in the context of supervision and that supervision is not used as a quality driver for each school. What will the Council of State do to improve the quality of supervision work in Norwegian schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e717	The Ministry of Education and Research is responsible for supervising, inter alia: general primary and secondary education. This power and task have been delegated to the county officials. It is the school owner, as the person responsible for the training, who is subject to supervision. This implies that the State of County of County is formally related to municipalities and county municipalities in carrying out supervision under the Training Act. However, supervision can be carried out in many different ways. Supervision may be done by the supervisory authorities meeting only the central administration of each municipality or county municipality, but supervision may also be carried out by visits to individual schools and by means of questionnaires. The most appropriate way of carrying out supervision will depend on the reasons for its implementation and on the rules of the regulatory framework under which supervision is exercised, such as: whether there is a right to a good physical and psychosocial environment, the right to free primary education or the requirement to obtain a police certificate. I have reviewed some of the surveillance reports published by the county officials on their websites on the Internet. My impression is that employees, students and parents are heard in the context of supervision when appropriate. It's easy to find concrete examples of that. The greater local freedom of action to which it is now generally provided requires a well-functioning supervisory system. The Ministry has therefore indicated in several large-scale documents that it wants to improve supervision. In particular, the supervisory authority shall monitor the fulfilment of the individual rights and the compliance of the school owner with its obligations under the legislation. In this context, good dialogue between the supervisory authority and the school owner is important. The same applies to any other implicit. The letter of assignment to the county councillors for both 2004 and 2005 shows that supervision and supervisory issues should be the main focus of the task portfolio in the field of training. Experience has shown that the content and methodology of supervision in the field of training have differed. The Ministry of Education and Research has therefore, in its letter of award to the Directorate of Education, entrusted the Directorate with the task of ensuring the development and systematic development of the content and methodology of supervision, so that supervision is more consistently carried out in the counties. In addition, during 2005, the Directorate shall, inter alia: pooling information from the counties on the results of supervisory activities and assessing the experience gained, including assessing both the scope and effectiveness of supervision carried out in the key priority areas. In particular, the Directorate for Education has set up the project ‘Development of a common professional basis and a more coherent service profile in the education and training departments of the State’. One of the project's working groups has been mandated to propose measures to develop and implement a common working methodology and common procedures and tools for the regional team's supervisory function and interaction with school owners, as well as to ensure the necessary competence at the regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e732	I thank you for your answer. The first part I would like to comment on by saying that if you go into the county's websites and see how they talk about their education tasks, it would be huge. I have over a long time checked reports that have been published, and I do not agree with the Council of State that the parties that I mention in my question, namely employees, students and parents, are being heard. On the other hand, it's obvious that it's the school owner it's being conferenced with. However, the end was more promising. It is important that we focus on joint management of the main objective of supervision, namely quality assurance and quality development. One of the main tasks of the Education Directorate is supervision. The Department of Education of the State shall be the extended arm of the Directorate, and they shall themselves say that they depart from the old-fashioned regulatory methodology and shall focus more on monitoring and monitoring of the results. It is then important that all interested parties be consulted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e741	I don't think we necessarily disagree so much here. Firstly, I would like to state – as I tried to do – that there is nothing in the system we have today that prevents you from hearing students and parents. They'll be heard. It may not be enough or to the extent desired, but it does. Secondly, the representative of Sortevik is quite right in saying that the way in which supervision is carried out really cracks. I would say that the quality of the supervisory work is probably also varying. That is also why I have taken the initiative to identify how supervision is being carried out and to ensure more consistent supervisory practices in the light of the reforms that are now taking place. I do not want to promise the outcome on the stand, but it is clear that one outcome could be that the parties were recommended to be heard more than today, as the representative Sortevik wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e750	To pursue this, I would recommend that the Council of State look at our nearest neighbouring country, Sweden, which at least has a two-phase supervisory model, so that when you get back to school in round 2, you actually visit each school and do interviews with representatives of the groups concerned – employees, students and parents. It can be a good methodology and also a method to ensure that all stakeholders are fully involved in good supervisory practice and that quality development is ensured. It is a relationship with which I will finally touch. It is that the physical visit is also important for self-confidence, as the supervisory authority, to be seen at the school, both in terms of its contents, as it is practiced, and in terms of its physical appearance. We do that in other areas of society. It should be as natural within the school area as for the Food Authority to visit individual shops and restaurants and actually close units. Similarly, it should also be possible for training to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e757	I agree that physical visits may be useful, but that depends on what you want to investigate. If you like to read it on paper, it might be inappropriate. But I don't have anything to object to. I think it's a good idea to look at the methodology in Sweden. If you're looking at our national quality assessment system, where, after all, this surveillance is going to follow, maybe Sweden is the country in our closest environment that is least different from ours. So it might be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e769	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Care. ‘patients entering permanent examinations, tests and dialysis at the Sandness Lake Helgelands Hospital are transported by taxi, despite other recommendations from doctors and despite long, tiring and time-consuming transport in a long-distance state such as Northernland. This is because of it. an agreement with the county taxi industry. Will the Council of State, based on the well-being of the patients, consider alternative transport when the price of the assignment is the same, or does the taxi industry have a monopoly on this transport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e778	The transport of patients to and from hospitals in Helgeland is carried out, as elsewhere in the country, by a variety of means of transport. Here the boat, taxi, airplane and helicopter are used, as well as the ambulance. It is a doctor who requires the means of transport to be used — and this is not being tested or overruled by transport agencies or others, except when specific coordination is needed. The principle is that the patient should be transported in a manner that is considered medically sound, taking into account the economy. The choice of means of transport is determined by the medical assessment of the patient’s condition by the physician. Agreements with the taxis are made through the use of tenders. I will then refer to the process initiated by the Rikstrygdeverket, which has now been taken over by regional health companies. Let me give you one example of how this can happen, where a patient living in Brønnøysund gets dialysis. Usually the patient travels to and from hospitals with taxis. Sometimes the patient may be offered to stay overnight or to be admitted to the hospital, so that he is free of some travelling time on the day of treatment. The difficulty of such transport depends, of course, on the patient’s condition. When the distances are large, the option for taxi will be hospitalisation. In the case of dialysis patients, the hospital applies every year to the State Road Administration to give priority to dialysis patients transported in taxis and on which the ferry route is part of the journey. This in order to prevent them from getting extended travel time even if it was to be a ferry queue. It is the medical assessments of the physician that determine the means of transport to be used for the individual patient. If the doctor thinks the patient needs an ambulance, so does it. The only exceptions will be where the ambulances in question are already occupied or have to be kept in standby; the option could then be either taxi or an overnight accommodation offer in a hospital. If patients experience not being listened to when it comes to the need for transport, this should first be addressed with the treating physician, then with the health company – or the health care department in the county – and, where appropriate, with the patient representative. Medical assessments of the patient’s medical condition — what the patient can or cannot tolerate in relation to travel — cannot and shall not be over-tested by others. Occasionally, this must be balanced against other considerations, but always in such a way as to comply with the requirement of soundness.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e793	I thank you for your answer and have an additional question. In the opinion of the Council of State, it should be assessed on the basis of the patient’s well-being and, if the total costs become the same, the use of, for example, should be considered. helicopter in a long-distance state such as Nordland?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e800	As I said, there are two issues that are absolutely crucial here. The most reasonable means of transport is initially used, given the state in which the patient is. Of course, it varies from patient to patient. The use of helicopters will be a relatively costly affair throughout. But it's not that it doesn't happen. The places where distances and conditions warrant it, it'll also be useful, I know, also in this area. Making helicopter the usual is probably going to be a bit ahead anyway, I think. We still have to rely on both taxi, boat and ambulance. But as I said, it's also that the helicopter is included as one of the alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e807	I thank you again for the answer and have probably an additional question. Are the contracts concluded such that they may be subject to reassessment when new and profitable alternatives appear?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e814	So there are two issues that are important in terms of the conclusion of these contracts in general. One is that there should be such a long time-frame that the person to whom the tender is to be made can adjust accordingly. On the other hand, it should be no longer than to be able to capture just such things as the representative Bastesen is after – changes in the reality in which they are located. It has varied between one and two and three years on these contracts, something other than that I am not familiar with, and I do not think that would be appropriate either.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e823	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘A cancerous person in Flekkefjord has been denied bone marrow transplantation abroad. The decision of 13 April 2005 provides for the rejection by the Department of Dispensation and Appeal of treatment abroad. Please note that complaints have shown that a patient from Central Norway has been covered by such expenses for treatment. The doctor writes that the individual health care provider is responsible for ensuring the necessary health care for its patients. What will the Council of State do to help this person and thus ensure equal treatment throughout Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e832	Equality and equivalency are a very central principle for Norwegian healthcare. However, treatment options will vary depending on different individual circumstances. Regional health establishments shall ensure that patients residing in the region are provided with the necessary specialist health services. If this is not in their own region or country, regional health care enterprises will have to buy it from abroad. This is done, and the awareness of this possibility is increasing, both in healthcare and among patients and relatives. This is joyous. However, a question of sending patients abroad should and must be considered in relation to medical options, i.e. Prognosis related to treatment. Here it will always be a professional judgement in relation to the individual patient. This is a discretion that politicians can hardly or should be tested to the extent that they do. In order to contribute to greater equality, it is known that its own complaint mechanism was introduced in 1999. The subject of dispensation and appeal for treatment abroad is the Board of Appeal in cases where patients seek health care abroad if necessary, on the grounds that there is no adequate medical offer in Norway. The assumption is that healthcare can be properly provided by providers in other countries and that it is done in accordance with the accepted method. This is otherwise regulated in a separate regulation, based on the Patient Rights Act. This name, Dispensation and Complaint Board for Abroad Treatment, is a free and independent court-like administrative body that the Ministry cannot instruct. The individual cases are finally decided by the name, but they may be brought before the courts. I am aware that in the patient case in question, the profession recommended – in Stavanger it was well – that the patient could receive the current treatment, namely bone marrow transplantation, abroad. However, the patient’s region of residence, Health South, has assessed the case differently and found that this is not a treatment with sufficiently documented effect. The patient therefore did not receive an offer from Health South. This decision was appealed against on the subject of the complaint, which thus maintained the decision. I am aware that this for the patient concerned may seem like a hard decision. But the Stortinget has therefore decided that the medical-disciplinary judgement on which such decisions should be based should be governed and not be overreached by politicians. However, what politicians can and should contribute to is, on a general basis, to ensure the greatest possible level of non-discrimination in healthcare, including in the field of cancer treatment. That is why we have started a work, which has gone over time, with a greater degree of national standardisation in this area. The Government will detail this work in the revised national budget, which is due in two days’ time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e847	In the Workers' Party we are concerned that we should have a Health Norway. That's what I'm asking you, you're going to get the same health services regardless of your place of residence or your financial ability. This case shows that there is discrimination in Health-Norway. So if a health business in one region wants to make an offer, and another health business, in another region, does not want it, it becomes a very discriminatory. That's the discrimination I'm asking if the Council of State will do anything about. If you have to move to Health Mid-Norway to get this offer, it's going to be completely wrong given that we're going to have one Health-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e854	Let me make it very clear: when the representative says that the Labour Party is committed to having Norway as a health-care country, it is an even greater reality for the signatory party. It was the Workers' Party that divided Norway into five healthists. We proposed to have one. It was a labor party government that in December 2000 made the regulations that govern this. And it was then the Hernes State Council that decided in its time that these matters should not be subject to political review. In the case of this case from Central Norway, referred to as a non-documented reference, the judgment of the Court of First Instance states: ‘To the complainant’s reference to the fact that a patient from Central Norway has been covered by the costs of treatment in Sweden, please note that it is not aware of the specific case.’ I agree very much, and I understand very well the individual patient who believes that he has a case that is parallel, but that has been treated differently. I have not been able to find the matter in question. I'm more than willing to be in dialogue with this patient to get it straight, because whatever the history in this area, I'm concerned that it should be equal to the treatment of similar cases, despite the five health regions we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e866	I would like to thank you for your answer. I just want to clarify very briefly that there is a reason why a Labour Party representative is addressing this question in the Question Time today. It's precisely because we see that there's a bias in relation to this case, and it might well be that this is just the top of an iceberg. I am not going to go into the professional assessments, but it is clear that this person is of a different opinion than the one behind the assessment he has received. He believes that this treatment can be demonstrated in a better way than has been achieved. Then my closing question is: Is the Council of State willing to meet with this person, so that he can present his case directly to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e877	I'm very concerned that claims of bias are going down in the seams. If it were to be the case that you get a lot of different offers depending on whether you live in Flekkefjord or in Levanger, I am interested in getting this documented to move on with it, because I am concerned about non-discrimination. Now I've had meetings with quite a number of patients in the scarce year I've been to the Ministry of Health. It's very often ended up that what basically for us laymen may appear to be the same medical cases, not necessarily it has been. But of course, I am more than willing to and interested in having a meeting with the patient concerned, in order to be able to go through this in a calm and relaxed atmosphere. Of course I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e888	‘The construction of the Bjørvika tunnel involves the handling of large volumes of clay and other types of mass. Most of it is thought to be deposited on the fjord bed in and around Oslo harbor. In the past, landfills are located outside Ursvik-Hellvik at the Nesodden. Will the design of underwater landfills be taken into account in order not to prevent or alter the circulation of water and hence the oxygen supply upon which the marine life depends?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e895	I refer you to St.prp. No 50 for 2004–2005, on the development of the E18 Bjørvika project in Oslo. The proposition sets out the removal, deposit and cover of contaminated masses in this area. The State Road Administration is authorised by the State pollution control authority to use the clean clay masses to be excavated into the area to cover the contaminated seabed in the inner port. Mass types other than pure clay masses will not be used for such cover. The authorisation was granted on 14 January 2005. The authorisation was conditional on the quantity and distribution of the masses to be determined with the Municipality of Oslo and after detailed description of the measure by the State Road Administration. In the past, there has not been a landfill for masses at Ursvik-Hellvik, nor will this happen in connection with this project. However, in the autumn of 2004 a pilot project was carried out with controlled interpretation of a limited quantity of clean clay with a thickness of up to 20 cm in the Oslo inner port and at Ursvik-Hellvik. The State Road Administration submitted its proposal for the disposal of the pure clay masses to the State pollution control authority on 2 May 2005. The areas where the masses are considered relevant for use are according to the ‘Solid Action Plan for Contaminated sediments in Oslo Port District’, developed by the Municipality of Oslo. This draft action plan was sent to the hearing in the last week of April 2005. The covering of contaminated seabeds with clean clay masses is different from the construction of a landfill — a reception — for clean clay masses. Undersea dams or other structures are not constructed on the seabed by covering. Consequently, the covering will only involve a layer — a cover — with clean clay masses on top of the contamination to isolate them. The camp originates from the original seabed in Bjørvika. The County of Oslo and Akershus and the State pollution control authorities want to use the construction of the lower tunnel through Bjørvika for a complete clean-up of the contaminated seabed in the Inner Oslo port. Clean-up will contribute to the reduction of the spread of environmental pollutants. The wish of the County and State pollution authorities is based on the fact that the construction of the sink tunnel liberates large quantities of clean masses that can be used to cover contaminated sediments in the port area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e910	Thanks for the answer. I want to follow up on what environmental requirements are set in relation to the treatment of clean masses and the contaminated sediments. It has recently been written quite a bit about the contaminated parts of the masses to be taken from Bjørvika. Does the Council of State consider that the environmental and water quality of the area is improving or deteriorating as a result of the handling of these masses?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e917	I am concerned that what is now happening in Bjørvika gives us an opportunity to clean up and make the quality of the bottom of the inner Oslofjord better than it has been. I believe that the County of Oslo and Akershus and SFT are looking at the same possibility. I am also concerned that, in isolation – when we are going to launch such a project as the tunnel in Bjørvika – regardless of what we want to clean up environmental conditions, we have a duty to ensure that we do this in the most gentle and environmentally friendly way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e933	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-11.ana.ud1891e944	There is no record.
