ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e61	The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were elected to give the country a majority government and a new political course for Norway, a policy for more community and more justice, a policy for creating and sharing. The voters gave us a mandate to implement our policies and change the course of social development. The negotiations between the three parties on Soria Moria laid the foundation for the government's work. The government budget proposal shows that we are implementing what we went to elections. The budget has three main characteristics: We choose common rather than tax.We redistribute from those who have much to those who have little.We conduct a responsible economic policy for work and value creation. Municipalities are given a historic boost. The total growth of the free revenues is NOK 5.7 billion. This money will be used to finance and restore our common well-being. In some municipalities the money will be used for care of the elderly, in other municipalities the money will be used for school, and in some municipalities the new money will certainly also be used to pay off debts and thus strengthen the ability of municipalities to finance well-being in the future. In any case, the increased appropriations will strengthen our common well-being, the well-being that we all need before or since life. Let me use Oslo as an example. In this city, the Right Party and the Advance Party had made extensive cuts in important welfare schemes for the city’s population. They made it possible to reduce the appropriations for care for the elderly and schools and kindergartens by 350 million. kr. Less home help, outpatient centres, fewer teachers and less education would be the result. With the new money granted tonight from the majority of the Stortinget, this can be done over, so that the municipality of Oslo can invest in just school and care for the elderly. It's not just in Oslo that the money's coming along well. All over the country, we hear about municipalities that can either reverse planned cuts or, at best, bet on new areas of school, welfare and other important areas for municipalities. For example, in Bærum. the extra money shall be spent in school. The rapporteur in Bærum is clearly pleased with the money to come. He said to Asker and Bærum Budstikke, "Money doesn't smell. We take them with pleasure.» Through the budget, we follow up the Soria Moria declaration in many important areas. Babysitting is increasing, and prices are being lowered. Hospitals are being strengthened, and it is being added to treat 20,000 more patients than the Bondevik government’s proposals for a government budget. The fight against crime is escalating. The construction of gas power plants with the landfill of the greenhouse gas CO2 is initiated. The cultural promise is followed up, as we promised before the elections. And we're stepping up the work of vaccinating the world's children. All this and much more we get because we choose common rather than tax havens. The second main feature of this draft budget is that it has a very good social profile. Those who have a lot, they contribute more. Those who have little, get more. As we announced in the Soria Moria Declaration, we are implementing the tax reform. This means that the tax on all employee income is reduced, even for those with high employee incomes. In return, the tax on equity, high entrepreneurial income and on large assets is increased. This means, in sum, that the richest contribute more, because they have much more income from shares and from wealth. For example, the 100 with the highest income will receive NOK 30000 in reduced taxes on wages and salaries. In return, they're going to pay $1.1 million. kr more in increased taxes on wealth. In addition, the new tax on dividends is added. Overall, those who have the most will pay more. For example, the 10 pst. the richest pay more taxes. Those who make over 1 million. NOK, on average, will pay NOK 43 000 in increased tax. Let's do what we said before the election: those who have a lot, contribute more. Those who have little, get more. A real social policy is characterised by redistribution, but also by the fight against poverty and the strengthening of well-being. The government is increasing its efforts towards the unemployed and the poor. The daily allowance for the unemployed is increased. We're increasing child supplements for disabled people for rehab and rehabilitation. Increased integration grants, measures for drug users, improved housing arrangements and the strengthening of child protection are other examples of the escalation of the fight against social injustice. The budget strengthens the fight against poverty by nearly 500 million. kr. The third important feature of the budget is a responsible economic policy. The majority government does not increase the use of money and does not increase the pressure on interest rates. The government, on the other hand, increases efforts for value creation and work to all through an active industrial policy. The government also implements several labour market measures, improves the rules of leave, and increases road and rail investment by nearly half a billion dollars compared to the Bondevik II government's proposals. All of this helps to reduce unemployment. In his great speech to the Stortinget in 1946 on economic policy, Minister of Finance Erik Brofoss said: ‘We must free ourselves from the idea of money as a basis for living standards and prosperity. Let's always keep in mind that we live by each other's work. [[...]] And I underline each other's, not others'." Brofoss’ recognition of the work as the basis for well-being was central to the postwar repatriation. The link between the capacity of society to create and share is equally important today. It is at the heart of the work of the majority government to further develop the Norwegian welfare society. The centre-left of Norwegian policy has gathered. Together we won the election, and we negotiated a common platform. We've formed a majority government. We said when we joined, that we should change the content of the policy and the form of the policy. The budget Stortinget deals with today, contributes to both. The majority board has adopted the budget without any play, without any uncertainty. This form provides clear responsibilities and better predictability. The content of the budget is a policy of community and value creation, a policy of fairness. It's a good budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e107	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e110	On the basis of the statement just made by the Prime Minister, there could be dramatic changes in the budget of this government in relation to the budget of the Bondevik II Government. That's actually not the case. There are relatively small changes that have been made. I wonder if the Prime Minister has bothered to check how much of the Bondevik II government budget we end up getting a majority in this Chamber today. Then I have another question for the Prime Minister. Today, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre has stated that Norway will join in imposing an additional charge on air tickets to finance further assistance to poor countries. The play comes on the same day that the Storting will adopt taxes and charges for 2006. It cannot be interpreted as anything other than the introduction of a completely new fee. My question is: why does the Government think that it is precisely the passengers who are going to finance the poor conscience of the Government towards the poor countries of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e119	First, the question of whether there are large or small changes. Everyone knows that a lot on the state budget is going to finance things that are statutory, regular, and that are in any case there. But it's actually, in my best opinion, big changes we're making. It's e.g. Obviously, for the unemployed, who now receive NOK 20 000 more in the daily allowance, there is a big change. We correct a serious error The Progress Party did to the unemployed as they cut the unemployment strike together with the government parties in the previous period. When kindergartens get up to NOK 6000 cheaper this year, it's a major change. When returnees, disability sufferers and rehabilitation receive increased child supplementation, this is a major change. And for the elderly here in the city who now experience that you can strengthen care for the elderly rather than cut the elderly, that's a big change. So there are significant changes we're making to very many individuals, and we're proud of those changes. With regard to the financing of the UN, the Soria Moria Declaration states that we want to strengthen the UN. I think it is an expression of a shortsightedness and a lack of ability to see long-term that the Progress Party is against co-financing the UN, among other things. through taxes on air tickets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e128	Just to confirm that the Right is a party that rains: I think we agree on 98.4 pst. of the budget. That's about the little bit that's left, which is the difference. I want to congratulate the Prime Minister on a well-worked electoral campaign throughout the last year. I agree with the budget that follows up the direction that he signaled in large lines. But I want to ask the question of whether the Prime Minister feels that the entire election campaign, seen in the light of the budget, was fair to the voters. There are three areas where I think many voters were amazed at what came into the budget. In the case of cash support, the starting point was that all changes in cash support were saved and eliminated. Nobody thought anything would happen before 2008, and that was the basis for many choices. In the case of housing taxes, the Prime Minister was irritated when we pointed out that there could be an increase in housing taxes. And with regard to the tax profile, many people have experienced something other than expected. Does the Prime Minister think that what has been done in these three areas is in line with what was said in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e139	The representative Solberg asked if we had a fair campaign. We did, and we follow up what we said in the election campaign, now in the budget. We promised, for example. to increase taxes, and we do. We promised to pursue a more social policy, and we do. So in terms of the tax profile, it's like I tried to prove in my post that those who already have the most have to pay more taxes. The government that Bondevik made up for was that those who had the most from before had to pay less tax. In fact, NOK 3.5 billion was introduced in share taxes, but the same people were to be given NOK 8 billion in reduced taxes on wealth, and 8 minus 3.5 is going to be a large plus figure that these people would get in tax relief. We have a social tax profile, it didn't have the Bondevik II government. We have not reintroduced any taxes on housing, we have increased taxes on wealth. Even the Right has a structure in its tax policy where there is property tax on housing. Cash support will be continued. We're reducing the rates, but it's a continuation of the cash support. So, we had a good campaign! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e150	You have to listen to yourself, it comes from the heart! On the accession of the Government, the Prime Minister stated that he would work for a good relationship with the opposition parties and listen to their advice. Today, he boasts of having received a predictable budgetary process, yes, it has been so predictable that this evening the government will be able to adopt every piece of waste in its proposal. We in the Christian People's Party took note of Stoltenberg's words with interest and positive expectation, and we have also noticed an invitation from the chairman of the Finance Committee here today, but we are disappointed at how the words have been followed up in practical action. The Stoltenberg government has made a number of provocative cuts to the local church, to non-governmental organisations, to hospitals and colleges, to the advisory service for pregnant women and the top of it all is cut off in cash support. What has been done in these three weeks which have been available in the budget is to provoke the Christian People's Party in very many areas, and the question is, can the Prime Minister explain how these budget cuts harmonize with the ambition to build bridges to the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e159	In the government, we have made every effort to build a bridge to the Christian People's Party and to make proposals on which the Christian People's Party is traditionally a follower. For example, we're increasing transfers to the municipalities by 5.7 billion kroner. There's something Christian People's Party tends to be too, even if they're against it right this year. We're increasing the appropriations for poverty by 500 million. kr by a wide range of measures for which the Christian People's Party tends to be, even if they are against them this year because they are to finance the tax reliefs to the Right. We are increasing the appropriations for hospitals, and we are increasing the appropriations for child protection. These are many examples of things Christian People's Party, the Center Party and SV usually stand together. In the case of part of the cuts that it responds to in the Christian People's Party, it's not cut, but we're not going to make any increases that were in the Bondevik budget. We continue, for example. the tax credit scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations, but we do not add to the increase that the Bondevik government made. I don't call it cut. That's what I call taking care of an important system for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e166	At least the Prime Minister has become good at his mantra on community rather than tax law. I think it was good that he today took back some of his old mantras to create to share – via Brofoss – but my opinion is that the government's budget is tailor-made to share without creating. During the lifetime of the Cooperative Government, a number of targeted tax reliefs were implemented against small businesses and entrepreneurs, and this has resulted: 50,000 net more enterprises now than when Stoltenberg left the office last time. Now it seems that the objective is to get fewer businesses through targeted tax incentives, and there are new businesses that are living off each other's work. It's obvious that someone inside the government machine sees it. The Lars Peder Breck of the Centre Party admitted in Today's Business on 16 November that tax policy towards family-run businesses is'very uncomfortable, to put it straight', and the Minister of Industry says he does not have tools. What new industrial policy tools does the Prime Minister have that the Minister of Industry has not discovered? And does he agree with Lars Peder Breck's view that the government's policy is very unpleasant?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e173	The government has a policy to create. It is also the case that the budget contains several concrete measures to strengthen value creation in Norway. For example, we are concerned about something that industry has been working on for a long time, that is to say, improving the rules of leave, and we spend a lot of money on it. Then we strengthen the labour market instruments, because labour market measures are important to provide skilled labour for Norwegian enterprises. Then we spend $0.5 billion more on investments in transport, roads and railways. If there's something Norwegian companies are busy about, it is. So, in many areas, we are strengthening our efforts for value creation, including: So with almost $0.5 billion in the transport sector. So it's not right that this is a budget to weaken value creation. It is a budget to strengthen value creation, and therefore the estimates in the budget also show increased economic growth with the new government and reduced unemployment. This suggests that there is a budgetary policy for value creation, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e181	The red-greens fought a good election fight, but still not such a good election campaign that they got a real majority in the people. I think that requires a little humility. The Prime Minister announced that he had spoken to some rapporteurs who were very pleased that they had received funds: money does not smell, so we welcome them with joy! I would like to challenge the Prime Minister whether he finds a rapporteur who had said no and got a little laugh because he got a little more money. I have also recorded that the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens now correspond with NOK 5.7 billion to the municipalities as a solution to everything: care for the elderly, school, broadband, psychiatry, filling swimming pool, transportation and accumulated deficits. Then these funds don't go far. But my question to the Prime Minister is something that is forgotten in the election campaign and promises. In the National Transport Plan, the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens, together with the Progress Party, stood at NOK 2 billion more for transport in 2006. This promise has left this government quite simply, although he says it's worth 500 million. Now kr. [[The President clubs.]] My question is, are these missing SEK 1.6 billion in the 2007 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e192	The President must ask that a person respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e195	Firstly, I fully agree that I have not met any municipal politicians who say no to increased transfers. That's exactly why we thought it was more important to spend money on school and care for the elderly in municipalities than to spend many new billions on lower taxes. So the difference is approximately NOK 9 billion in what's called accrued tax revenue for 2006, and there's a lot more money in common than in taxes. We acknowledge that, and there are also many from the Progress Party around the municipalities who are happy that there is now more money for the municipalities. So we've got $0.5 billion more for transportation than the Bondevik government had. We've never promised to implement the entire Soria Moria Declaration in a year, but we're going to make every effort in future years' budgets to strengthen the community, including the commitment to transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e202	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e205	In connection with the work of the Financial Committee on the State Budget, I have, among other things, as the case-rapporteur for the chapter on the levy on chocolate and sugar products has become well aware of one of many unfair charges. The theme is not just a day-to-day one as we approach Christmas. It is also current because we have Norwegian chocolate factories that are struggling because of this fee. For example, at the latest today, there was a big headline in the Evening Post showing the challenges of the Nidar chocolate factory in Trondheim, which has to go out with 215 million annually. kr extra because of this charge, which fights to survive in the fight against foreign competitors. Chocolate has a lot of some sort of relationship with it. Norway also has traditional chocolate factories, which are up to 100 years old and represent an important part of our cultural and industrial history. Unfortunately, strangely, this charge has been linked to a long history of chocolate, despite the fact that the background for its introduction has expired. The chocolate levy introduced in 1922 was introduced to reduce the consumption of chocolate due to a lack of cocoa beans. It was at a time when there was also a fee on shampoo because it was considered a luxury product. It is no less tragic when you look at the actual consequences of the charge and how illogical this is: We have the Norwegian pride of Kvikk Lunsh, as most people know, who has a history since the 1930s. It's getting a chocolate fee. But a Cartoonie's cookie doesn't get it because it contains 49 pst. chocolate. If the chocolate content had been more than 50 pst. or if the chocolate had been on the outside of the biscuit instead of inside, the product would be charged. Wasa Choko Viking with 59 pst. chocolate is not taxed because it is considered to be a broken bread. But Max bar contains 48 pst. chocolate and it is charged because the chocolate is on the outside of the biscuit. Then we have household products that are exempt from the sugar charge. It gets strange consequences, especially as we approach Christmastime: 500 g with marzipan is exempt from charge. But Christmas marsipangris or marzipan sausages are subject to a charge because they have a solid form and can be eaten as candy. The same applies to coker chocolate. It shall be charged because it can be eaten as a candy. It'll be more comical. We all probably know about the navel pills Wake up tomorrow – very useful if you have a sore throat. They are even sugar-free, but they are taxed because they are considered candy! The same applies to what can probably be seen as the most popular in political circles, Dent, which is also sugar-free, but is considered candy, and so we have to charge for it as well. After numerous references from the Progress Party for several years, the outgoing government made sense and proposed that this fee be abolished for chocolate and confectionery for the following year. Unfortunately, the new government will not. That these excise duties cost the goods with approx. 15-20 pst. in fact, at a sale price, has significant consequences. It's not just a shame for those who like chocolate, but it's a struggle because there's different conditions of competition from foreign competitors. We're talking here about a charge that leads to increased border trade, and then we're talking about thousands of jobs. We are talking about the future of approx. 2 000 jobs in the Norwegian chocolate industry. If we take with the ringing effects of this, if the Norwegian chocolate industry goes away, this goes beyond the subcontractors of course. Then we suddenly get a doubling of the number of jobs that can be lost, including 600-700 Norwegian dairy farmers. That's why it's a cross of thought that the Center Party can be involved in something like this. It must also be a cross of thought for all these three government parties, which during the election campaign were so much in the way of saving Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs. Here comes the action. They make it harder for the industry. It should also be borne in mind that the value creation of the existing industry and its activities totals SEK 1.5 billion, a sum that can be lost in a few years if the Government does not reconsider its view. There will probably not be a good Christmas with cheaper Christmas next year either, either for those who like Christmas and chocolate or for the thousand workers in the chocolate industry and their subcontractors, who are now facing an uncertain time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e240	The fact that budgetary processes in many municipalities start with gloomy numbers and end up with bad cuts has become quite common in recent years. But this time the cut suggestions were even more dramatic than ever in many places. At least I don't know anyone who had expectations that the Bondevik government budget would represent some direct uphill. A lot of people were hoping for a new national policy, and they just contributed to it. The change came, and with the change came money, as promised, for 2006. In many ways this has been the autumn when the local government sector got a new spring! The first delivery clearly shows that we are serious when we say that the free revenues of municipalities should be significantly strengthened during the landfill period. We also need to spend time in the future looking at how we can improve different schemes that are particularly important to many municipalities, including the local authorities. financial instruments linked to disabled persons who need, in particular, resource-intensive services. We will also look at the scheme of the host municipality grant and the consequences of recent years' changes in this. Let me give you three everyday examples of what our municipal addition means: In Skedsmo, nursing homes that are now empty due to poor finances will be able to be used. In the West Toten, there was a cut need of 10 million. kr. Now avoids a cut, and one can operate new care homes. The municipality of Tierøy with its 1 300 inhabitants has got about 2.8 million. kr more to route with, and there is a lot of money on their edges. $5.7 billion is a lot of money. Yes, even in my homelands, even where the quantity is at its best, it is considered to be relatively much money. In addition, significant ear-marked substances are included. Every penny is needed. Each krona does not provide new activity, but provides important welfare services — or provides municipalities with a better foundation for the welfare they will provide in the future. In the new spring, we see it sprouts. We are seeing a new political course in which central and local politicians play a greater role. We even see that we are spreading a bit of joy, yes, in some places it is simply an entrance to enthusiasm. I have also recorded no insurrection from the rapporteurs of the previous government parties against the red-green additions. There has also been no requirement for people to exchange welfare improvements in tax laws. Also, the local leadership of the Advance Party is happy to receive more money, whether they are, and I think of the money, is never so free. But perhaps they are making some reflections about the total lack of confidence in how to use such amounts locally for the benefit of the population. Our community initiative is about security and equal opportunities for everyone, about quality in school and the help we are able to provide them with nurturing – and much more. It's about good district policy and giving our urban communities better drag and drop to meet their special challenges. The municipal lift is also important for local democracy. Possessions related to the circuit championship in welfare education do not seem motivating to those already engaged in such activities, nor, in particular, to the promotion of other people who might think of striking a blow to their community through political activity. I also think it is important to mention the importance that improved municipal economy has for the everyday lives of the thousands of employees who daily deliver in our welfare offer. Kommune-Norge is continuously working to get more out of the resources and ensure the best possible offer. With the expansions now taking place, municipalities will be better able to release resources for important development work in close cooperation with their employees. The working party and the red-green alliance will have a clean and – I allow myself to add – a fair relationship with the municipalities, and contribute to the best possible consistency between tasks and the economy. The promise now being made is highly required, but there was a need to give priority to it. We have that will. Therefore, the municipalities are – i.e. the children, the caregivers and many others who are engaged in the provision of municipal services — depending on the offer given to our most well-deserved budget winners. And this is just the beginning!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e266	The proposal for a State budget shows that there is a great gap between the practical policies of the new government parties and the Prime Minister's characteristic was a very good election campaign. That is at least obvious to us who represented the political parties in the election campaign, but the debate of recent times shows that the gap is truly obvious to the management of Youngstorget, in LO. We are not talking about peripheral political issues, but we are talking about core issues in the election campaign, such as fiscal policy. Until the elections, today's government parties were driving an intense black paint of the tax profile of the previous government. There was talk in large headlines about social tax relief to those who have the most from before. I checked the Internet and found 422,000 hits on the combination “Jens Stoltenberg” and “the ones that have the most already”. That means this wasn't just a mantra, it was pretty much the whole tune. In the draft State budget, the Government is in favour of sound tax relief for those with high incomes. However, the most eye-catching thing is that the new government cuts off the Bondevik government's proposal for increased minimum deductions. In this way, the government weakens the social profile, and when you look at the relationship between relief in the top tax and relief in the bottom tax, the Stoltenberg government has a clearly worse profile than the Bondevik government's. You don't have to be a leader or a member of the LO to be provoked by this curve jump. In other areas too, we see that the difference is great between what the government parties said before the elections and what they do after the elections. The depreciation rates for machinery are a striking example. In the election campaign, SV traveled around the country and the beach and spoke warmly about the need for increased depreciation rates for machines in industry. Four days before the election, Vice President Djupedal in SV said that industry is asking for better depreciation rules and a country that cares. In its 2005 alternative state budget, the party of the Minister of Finance joined at once. In the 2006 draft budget, the Bondevik government met SV’s demand to increase the depreciation rates from 20 pst. until 25 p.m., but in the budget proposal of the Stoltenberg government, this is reversed. There will be no increased depreciation rates with the new government anyway. So the measure that the Minister of Finance's party put so much emphasis on before the elections was dropped immediately after the elections. The same shift we are witnessing when it comes to kindergartens. The Bondevik government had full focus on expanding kindergartens to anyone who wanted to. In the election campaign, we were accused, in particular by SV, of pursuing a half-hearted and passive policy for the development of kindergartens. The message from the then opposition was that there had to be a change of government in order to get things going. SV's manager went so far as to put his job into full kindergarten development within two years. What happens after the election? Well, the prime minister says clearly that it is not possible to indicate when to achieve full child-care coverage, simply because the demand for childcare facilities is slightly rising and falling. It's to confusion like what we said all the way. We're betting on full expansion, but we can't say in advance with 100 pst. safety when full coverage can be achieved. In fact, the Minister of Finance maintains his guarantee of full child care coverage by the end of 2007, but the difference between her and the Prime Minister’s statements is most likely to create uncertainty for families with children. It is not possible to avoid pointing out that the job of removing the kindergarten queues is likely to be even more demanding as a result of another government lifting breach: the reduction of cash support. From the new year, the Government cuts down on the monthly amount of the families with children. A welfare arrangement is being built up, and it is not exactly a pleasant Christmas greeting from the new government to the 80,000 children and their families receiving cash support. Furthermore, in a written reply to the Finance Committee, the Government has opened up new cuts in cash support from year to year, which the Central Party parliamentary leader had to admit earlier in the debate. It only means one thing: Children's families have less opportunities to plan the future, and there is every reason to believe that many people would rather sit in a nursery queue than bet on a cash subsidy that they do not know they could get. How the government intends to provide kindergartens for an unknown proportion of these 80,000 children we have heard very little about. Both in family policy and in economic policy, the difference is striking both in politics and rhetoric. It surprises the Christian People's Party. We had expected a more consistent line from the new government. We had also expected a somewhat more humble attitude towards the Storting in relation to the signals that the Prime Minister gave in the throne debate, about an open dialogue. We heard little about that in today's articles. It may also surprise the low-paid both inside and outside the LO who experience that the Government is not able to afford to maintain the Bondevik government’s proposal for an increase in the minimum deduction, but ensures that those with the highest income receive solid tax relief. To say that with an opinion that we parliamentary leaders received from LO on 15 November this year: ‘Who could know this was happening after following the election campaign?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e290	Yes, the Bondevik government made social tax concessions for 2005. At that time, there was no increase in the wealth tax, no dividend tax was introduced, and one with 2 million. kr in income received a tax return of NOK 5000 to NOK 10000. In the 2006 budget, the Stoltenberg government ensures an increase in property taxes, a dividend tax, and a 2 million increase. kr in income receives a tax tightening of NOK 35000. I am pleased that the leader of the Christian People’s Party has made it clear that the Christian People’s Party will not now give priority to tax relief in the future. It's in line with what the government has put up for next year. It has provided room for increased strengthening of the local economy. It has given room for a much stronger effort to reduce the challenges and facilitate the everyday lives of those who are poor. Does Højbråten believe that it was wrong to cut the tax bill and rather grant more to the municipalities and more to the poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e297	I have understood from the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen's posts in the hall earlier today that he has become an avid reader of my speeches. That's nice. But I have to say, unfortunately, that he does not read them carefully enough, because what he now gave for the best is actually wrong. I have not said that the Christian People's Party does not give priority to tax relief. We give priority to the tax relief needed to carry out tax reform in a good way and with a social profile. That's why the Bondevik government put so much emphasis on providing relief from the deduction of the tax base we provided for 2006. I understand that Schjøtt-Pedersen will rather discuss the tax package last year, but that is the 2006 budget we are now discussing. The line we followed throughout the previous period was that there should be a reasonable relationship between tax relief at the bottom and tax relief at the top. The worst budget line in this way is the proposal that is now being adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e304	I'm not going to participate in this scandal of taxes. In case of lack of money, I understand that it may be a discussion, but I will not be in it. The Bondevik II Government’s proposal for the 2006 government budget proposes to increase the maximum amount of deductions to non-governmental organisations from DKK 12 000 to NOK 15 000. This is a good proposal, but far from sufficient to satisfy the needs of non-governmental organisations for social purposes. The Progress Party therefore proposes, in its alternative budget, to increase this ceiling to DKK 18 000, and wishes to see voluntary organisations more involved. On this basis, my question to the representative Højbråten is as follows: Will the Christian People's Party support the Progress Party in our leverage for the voluntary organisations and agree with us to raise the amount limit to NOK 18 000?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e312	The tax deduction in the case of non-governmental organisations is one of the most important tax changes that were fought during the previous grossing-up period. I would like to pay tribute to the government of Stoltenberg, who is continuing that arrangement, despite the fact that at least some of the government parties in the election campaign said the opposite. What is regrettable, however, is that one does not participate in the escalation of the tax deduction that has otherwise been accepted by both the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the former government parties. We've gone into our program for $18,000 in deductions during this period, and we'll work for it over the period. But we cannot participate in a comprehensive policy, as the Progress Party has put it. After all, the Progress Party is financing some of its tax reliefs by cutting dramatically into u-help, and we're not into that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e317	The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party was little inside the community economy in his speech, despite the fact that there is one thing that engages around in the whole country, it is municipal economy. Here, most of Norway’s welfare is created — schools, kindergartens, care for the elderly and a number of other services, all of which are dependent on, sooner or later, all of Norway’s inhabitants. My first question to the representative Højbrätten will be as follows: does the representative think that there was sufficient funding for the municipalities in the proposal submitted by the Bondevik II government to the Stortinget earlier this autumn? And my question no. 2: Is the representative Høybräten more satisfied with the municipal economy in the proposal made by the government of Stoltenberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e324	As a long-standing local politician, councillor and director of the Central Federation of Municipalities, I have spent many years of my life fighting for a better economy for the municipalities. The growth period we have behind us has given better finances to the municipalities. There has been an increase of NOK 15 billion, measured at constant prices, and there is a continuing escalation in the Bondevik government's proposal. We have in the position we are in on the Financial Committee, used the increased space of action contained in the Stoltenberg Government's proposal to strengthen the municipal economy, and that is an expression of the fact that we continue to step up towards the municipalities, but we do so within a comprehensive arrangement where we can stand both the front of the medal: strengthening the municipalities, and the back of the medal: how it is financed. We cannot help and finance strengthening municipalities through cut-offs in cash support and cut support for non-governmental organisations, churches and health schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e331	The high-level representative is busy with values, and for many young people it is a great value to have a place to spend in leisure. This is a value that Christian People's Party has downgraded in the last four years. Through an iron grip on the municipal economy, the previous government has not only given weight to the provision of care for the elderly and schooling. According to the National Association Against Drug Abuse, 50 recreational clubs have only closed down in the last year. And it must be a crossroads of thought for the Christian People's Party leader that alcohol use among young people has stuck at a high level while at the same time reducing the number of drug-free meeting places. The new government prioritizes the municipal economy, which means that one can open youth clubs instead of shutting them down. My question to the representative Højbrätten is: Will the Christian People's Party support the Central Party and the other government parties in the promise we are now making for the local economy and therefore for the provision of youth in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e340	I can assure the representative, Sande, that there is a man here who believes in prevention, who knows that prevention benefits, and who will support good proposals from the new government to prevent drug abuse, which I understand Sande is particularly concerned about. I welcome proposals from the Minister of Health and Welfare, who is now responsible for drug policy in this country, in terms of reducing the increase in drug consumption in the country in general and among young people in particular. And it will be the Christian People's Party the foremost to support with great joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e345	The representative of the Højbrätten was involved in his contribution to taxation and that tax relief is important for the creation of value added. But what he didn't mention is that having people at work, having full employment, is probably so important to the creation of value. A study has been carried out by the Central Statistical Office to show that if female participation had been as low as that in Germany, the value creation in Norway would have been many billion dollars lower. This would have contributed to lower tax access and less well-being in Norway. That's 80 pst. by the midwives of young children are economically active, clearly important for the creation of value added. But when Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen just points this out in Dagbladet, the Christian People's Party disagrees. Is it really such that the Christian People’s Party does not want mothers of young children to be active? And is it really such that the Christian People's Party is now contradictory to realize that when kindergartens get cheaper and more, are there many women who choose it rather than being at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e352	The Christian People's Party is concerned with both tax relief and value creation, yes, we are engaged in tax relief for the sake of value creation. Therefore, we are pleased to note that after several years of tax relief to companies and tax relief on labour, tax revenue increases. Politics has worked. Then I must say that I'm a little surprised at the representative Gjul's persistent defence of the Minister of Economic Affairs's somewhat famous statement that there should be something we can't afford in Norway, that one of the parents is home while the child is under two years old. The Christian People's Party is responsible for a different policy in this area. We stand for freedom of choice, not coercion. We are proud of high levels of professional activity in Norway in general and among women in particular. But we are even more proud that we have arrangements that make it possible to choose – and the arrangements we will fight for in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e359	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e362	So now one in 24 days is ready to present a budget that will give more community and fairer distribution, and that's not the worst. It is a budget that clearly rings the ring of our Community arrangements. It adds that it's not people's wallet to decide whether to have a safe and good everyday life. It gives a clear signal that the community should not be put out of competition and privatised but be safeguarded and strengthened. We won't be able to do everything now, or rather: seal all the holes that need to be sealed. But we are now on the go and on the right track to change the course and direction towards a better everyday life for most people. We are now on our way to a society where one should not be his own success smith. And it is particularly gratifying that today you will have a majority to strengthen and bring new measures in different areas to combat poverty. It's a step in the right direction towards not being poverty in one of the richest countries in the world. When the municipalities will now receive DKK 5.7 billion in free income, it will be applauded outside and beyond the whole country – including the members of the Progress Party and the Right rapporteurs of the country. Then it becomes a little strange when the representative Sanner from the Right almost devalues the effort on municipal economy in his previous post here today. So for my county, Rogaland, it means $252 million to be spread across municipalities and counties. For Sandnes, which is run by the Right and Advance Party, that means 35 million. kr extra, and I know that everyone in that city hall is very happy about that money. Stavanger municipality with the Right-Rapporteur in the head will receive 67 million. kr. And it's not a purse or a trifle in a municipality where you've always turned on every penny. In these cities, central both Right and Advance Party people say that there will be more well-being and community as a result of the efforts of this government. Because it's out in the municipalities they produce people's everyday lives. In fact, the government and the majority of the population believe, unlike the Progress Party, that local democracy is important, and that it is fully capable of handling and prioritizing this important production. Several rapporteurs now say, regardless of the batch, that they want to increase service production in different areas. Some people now say that child protection and social care are not being cut; others now say that school and special education are not being cut; they say that they are not going to cut the daily supply for the elderly; they say that they are not going to increase the parental payment in the SFO and in the cultural school; and others even say that they want to spend some of this money to increase the appropriations for teams and associations within, for example, for example. the sport and the speed movement. These are good examples of giving people more fellowship and security and giving people better lives. It is also with and fights poverty. The fact that this government is now proposing to give the largest increase in appropriations ever to bet on kindergartens is also gratifying. It's strange when the representative, Skei Grande, said earlier today that they think giving a maximum price in kindergarten is almost giving something to the payroll. It's not at all. There is a clear message to parents that when you are going to get back to work, there will be a place for everyone of good quality, it will be safe, and it will be cheap. We're a lot of people who know a lot about what it's like when you don't get a kindergarten place. And when we got a kindergarten place, it cost so much that there was not much left in the pay bag afterwards. Then there's a "good flower" that this big crowd is going to adopt tonight, and that's that government is going to bet on culture and volunteering. One says that culture and volunteering are important. As a former municipal politician for 16 years and with a good knowledge of a municipal politician's feelings about municipal economy and welfare production, I am delighted to know with certainty that at home in my municipality they can take the Christmas dinner at the prayer house – because there it is cheaper to have it – after having had the municipal government's budgetary treatment. Then all the representatives from all the parties will sit there with slightly more lowered shoulders, a little more ease in their eyes and a bigger smile around their mouth. This is just the beginning of Soria Moria, and I can promise that the continuation will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e377	After hearing the last speaker, you might say that ‘after that they lived happily all their days’. I actually think it's in place to give the government some praise, I, for the budget that has been presented. Most of it is good – most of it in the budget is good. I know that a lot, since 98.4 pst. of which this has been submitted by the previous government. And it shouldn't be exaggerated, what's the negative. I am pleased that the government has found no reason to move more than NOK 8 billion. That's what we've been working on in the budget, basically as a compliment. In return, we are not satisfied with how the government has chosen to redistribute the $8 billion they have moved on. Because there are some common features to it – there is more money for subsidies and less for future-oriented industrial policies. There is a provision of welfare services that provides more to those who already have, at the expense of those who do not have an offer. It is, in my view, a strange tax profile – so they give more tax relief to the rich and less tax reliefs, intensifications, compared to the previous government for the lower incomes. It is a major political slowdown to later budgets, with many expectations that are created but that are not being fulfilled now, and that put pressure on what the budgets are going to look like in the future. And there is a device in the budget that gives more pressure to interest and to the price of the crown that will have consequences for value creation in Norway and eventually also consequences for well-being in the future. What I think is striking is that in many areas there is a lack of consistency between rhetoric before the elections and policy after the elections. I think that someone should think more about what they said in the election campaign, if you knew you weren't going to do it. This relates to the cash support, to the taxation of housing, also to the tax profile, for example, or to the investment in research. If you didn't know you'd get it done, maybe you should have subdued what you said in the election campaign. Choosing a new course means choosing away something else, and it's not just a matter of choosing away tax breaks, which is a theme in this, you pick away the things that better prepare this country for the future. Much of that has become less of the budget that has been submitted. I agree with both Brofoss and Stoltenberg that we live most of each other's work in this society. But we also have to make sure to think through that when the welfare is built and created by people, people have to get opportunities through research and innovation, through knowledge and education, through low interest rates and stable crown prices, the security to bet, to have faith. And we must have faith in and trust in people when it comes to bet. In that case, the reversal of research, innovation and innovative investment is not forward-looking, then spending money on subsidies is not what builds the future. One of the things that amazes me most of all is the lack of discussion about what it is that contributes to people falling outside our society. Many people in this debate have talked about the Nordic welfare model. I think we have reason to boast of the Nordic welfare model. But remember, there is one thing that lies next to the Nordic welfare model: there is a high cost level, and there are relatively few jobs for unskilled people. That's what we meet as challenges in integration policy, we meet them as challenges when there's a big pace of change. It is then that higher capital taxation contributes to companies demanding higher returns on their investments, it will contribute to increasing the rate of conversion. This means that the device will send in more quickly. We have a goal that should have the greatest possible chance of creating well-being for themselves and their families. It makes competence important, and it makes lack of competence serious. That's why we're concerned that if one of the sources of not being able to cope with the changes in our society is that you have a poor background for training, that you don't master the basic skills that enable you to make the transition, you have to bet on it. Thus, almost 400,000 people are at risk of falling completely out of the labour market because they cannot read and write or lack basic skills in a way that makes them unable to participate in the labour market of the future. It's no shame to have that kind of trouble – we have to remove the shame from it. And we have to make sure to also bet in the future on getting more of these to do the conversions. Well-being is not primarily about money and social security, but about help and opportunities for most people in our society, and also about making sure that things don't get too fast. This is a budget for rapid conversions, and I think it's strange that the left-hand side is so proud of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e400	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e403	I registered with pleasure that the representative Erna Solberg moderated a bit of the strong criticism of the government's budget, which has come from other Right-Representatives in this debate. Is there any minor change made to the State budget, or is it such that what the Stoltenberg government has presented represents a devastating policy for the creation of value here in the country? But perhaps the most eye-catching thing that has taken place in today's debate is the general settlement that took place at this morning's meeting between the parties on the right, between the Progress Party and the Right. Many in the Right have on various occasions asked for closer cooperation with the Progress Party. After today's debate, it must be seen that there is an infinite amount of further assembly on the civil side than it was for Soria Moria. Does the representative Erna Solberg agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e410	If you think about just moving $8 billion, it's clear that it's a small move, despite the fact that we hear a prime minister and other speakers here telling you about the big adventure that means $8 billion. What the right has done is point to three things that are the problem of what's happening. One is that it creates a smaller basis for future well-being, because you tickle the things that are to be done, and you don't commit to the future. The second thing we have pointed out is that it can contribute, as I have said, a significantly higher rate of conversion, because it becomes less profitable for the Nordics to invest in Norwegian companies, the capital requirements are going to be higher. And the third thing we've said is that there's little connection between what you said in the election campaign and the areas you cut in. That's our criticism. It is now in policy that there are differences in the political debate. And then they're 98.4 pst. Which we put forward, we're satisfied with. As for the relationship with the Progress Party, I just have to say that what I experienced before today was with great amazement. I'll think about that, and then I'll listen to what Siv Jensen has to say. But it must be allowed to conduct a political debate in this country, and I believe that all the speeches from the Right towards the Progress Party today have been marked by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e419	It is said that many Right-people like to have fun with red wine or beer. I think that's what most people do, and poor people do. My question is not whether the representative also likes it or not. But I wonder why the Right does not want to support the Advance Party in lowering the high alcohol charge we have in Norway, a tax that not only threatens the brewing industry in Norway but also leads to high production and high consumption of homeburn, leads to smuggling and organised crime, and that the border trade remains high, a tax that makes it impossible for the poor actually to afford to drink alcoholic beverages. I guess the representative will answer that no, now you have been in government with the Christian People's Party, and that you use it as an excuse. So then I'm going to ask a follow-up question: will the representative come with the Right to support the Progress Party at the next crossroads and propose a strong cut in the alcohol charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e426	We have committed to relatively large tax reliefs in the budget proposed by the Bondevik government, linked to the creation of a healthier tax system for the Norwegian economy to ensure well-being, to ensure jobs, to provide the basis for the future. So it's like we haven't had room for all the tax reliefs that Right would want. The right-hand programme is clear: we want to lower the alcohol tax. If we want to go as fast and as far as the Progress Party, we will see in each budget. I reserve the right to take the most important things first, and the important thing for me is to make sure that we, among other things. have a healthier Norwegian business life, which means that we are turning around, for example. reduce taxes on wealth, which will ensure that it becomes interesting to invest in Norwegian business, and that we ensure that we build the future in the years to come. And then we'll also adjust down the alcohol charges, mostly depending on how large the border trade and the pressure will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e433	The representative Erna Solberg was one of those I often thought about in the election campaign. When I traveled around the municipalities in Northern Ireland and had conversations with spokesmen and other good people, I must admit that then I often thought that there was going to be ours here to jam the municipal minister Erna Solberg. When I hit the spokesmen who have shoes down to the leg, and who only have legal duties to do again, I thought that the mayor should have been here. The Bondevik II Government's draft budget was an increase in the so-called free revenues of DKK 1.9 billion. They've at least been used twice, and it's clear from the remarks in the financial position from the members of the financial fraction as well. So you're trying to minimize the increase that the Stoltenberg government is putting in. Yes, no one has ever been so pleased with trifles. I wonder what kind of message the representative Erna Solberg has intended to give in the future. Does it intend to say that the importance of growth in terms of private consumption should be greater, and then we do not intend to restore the economic balance of the local government sector, and we do not intend to cover the increase in demographic costs, so do we not intend to correct the delays in maintaining the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e440	I can guarantee Åsa Elvik that I was in many Norwegian municipalities when I was a municipal minister. In fact, I believe that my travel activity as a municipal minister was larger than the travel activity of most other municipal ministers in the past, and I know very well what the situation in Norwegian municipalities is. I have visited many different types of municipalities. I have e.g. visited municipalities where in 2002 the krone price and the interest rate took the basis away from the commercial enterprises along the Finnish coast. What did that result in? In fact, the municipal economy was not the first municipality to ask questions, but the possibilities of establishing jobs and ensuring that people did not move away from them. It was more important, because it was also related to the municipal economy in those municipalities. That's why it's so important that the way we dose more public consumption is related to what we have, that's how the Norwegian industry is doing, and how we can maintain it. If not, there will be less money for the municipalities, less for well-being, and much more for centralisation in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e445	It's interesting that after four years in government, Erna Solberg announces suggestions to treat people with reading difficulties. It is a commendable proposal, but it must also mean that Erna Solberg admits that things take time. At the same time, it is alarming that she today demands from the new government that she carry out four weeks' notice of all measures in the election campaign. Here's something that doesn't match. She asks an affordable question: what makes people fall out of it? There are thus measures for more people at work, warning about a more social housing policy, a more fine-tuning net, and not least better public services. In the Center Party, we are delighted that the municipalities now have the possibility of better prevention, to better follow up their most difficult times. The Christian People's Party has taken a given with its past in this field. Would you like this recognition to go to the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e452	I think it's okay that we relate to what people say in the debate, and I haven't criticized the government for not having done all the things in four weeks. On the contrary, I have said the opposite. That's what I said in my post, and I think it's neat that you relate to it, and not to what you're going to say in advance. There are three areas that I also pointed out in my reply to the Prime Minister, where I do not think there are any voters, in relation to the rhetoric, could expect them to do what they did. It's amazing, among other things. because it was areas where the prime minister in the election campaign spent time saying that we blackpainted, when we said they were going to do something about the cash support, when we said they were going to increase the housing tax. So now they've done it, and it goes into a box that contains what I think helps to make the confidence of politicians smaller. I'm very proud of two things that we've done in government. One is what we've done within the school in relation to reading and writing problems, there's a lot of work done, and I'm very proud of what we've done in housing policy with the homeless, and the strong commitment to doing something in the areas that actually came under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e461	Right, ghosts look like others don't see. No one else believes that the budget will yield increased interest. Right is talking about cut where others see increase. The government is increasing the funding for research by SEK 1.3 billion next year. Right, it's called a cut. Right sees justice where others see increasing differences. Yes, it's true that one with 150,000 kroner of income would get NOK 1 more in taxes per person. a day with the Bondevik regime, while one with 5 million. kr in income would receive NOK 72 000 more in tax relief next year than he is now receiving. Is that what the Right and Christian People's Party calls a more social arrangement? Or is it called breeding?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e466	I really understand that the tax profile bothers the government parties, precisely because there is such a big mismatch between what they said in the election campaign and what they actually do. I myself have been in debates where I have asked: are you going to carry out the tax reform, or are you not going to carry out the tax reform? Do you want to do that without lowering the marginal taxes? And so the Labour Party representatives have talked it away. That's the story, and that's why it's so amazing. No, we're for the profile that's also in the government's proposal. We think it is important to lower marginal taxes, and when it comes to the issue of interest rates, the Ministry of Finance has also blackened the pressure to increase public expenditure more than to provide tax relief. It's not like we're the only ones. Among other things, the senior economist in the Nordea Market has gone out and said that it is of course that when you have the device you have in the budget, the pressure on interest rates will increase faster than it would otherwise have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e472	President! A manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e479	The President allows himself to point out that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen can clarify the obvious misunderstanding later on through a post, and the representative also has the opportunity to comment briefly in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e482	I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e489	The president insists that he can take it in a line later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e492	The budget that will be adopted today has been treated in the Grand Duchy, which is a state budget worthy of consideration. The impression that most have remained after previous treatments is that Norwegian policies are influenced by chaos, crisis, unrest and quarrelling politicians. It has weakened the overall image of policy and made it difficult for individuals to engage in and assess the policies of the various parties. Today we will have a budget adopted where three parties that form a majority are united behind the Government's proposals. Everyone takes responsibility for the whole and everyone takes responsibility for the individual elements of the budget. It is transparent and allows ordinary voters to decide on the policy pursued by the Government. The budget of the Stoltenberg Government is different from that of the Bondevik Government. In essential respects, there are clear changes from the original budget to the previous government. This change can be read about in local viewers around the country. The municipalities have got more money, they don't have to cut. This is a clear commitment to remedy the public poverty that has grown year after year. The municipalities are now able to carry out the tasks they have been assigned to provide the elderly with the necessary care, to build and operate kindergartens for everyone and to improve the school environment, among others. In my home municipality, Asker, many have a very good private economy. Nevertheless, many have also been frustrated by the continuing shortage of welfare services, and more was to come. The volunteering centre was to be laid down. The electrical center was to be laid down. Day care for mentally ill people was to be discontinued. It should be cut in schools, care for the elderly, sports and non-governmental organisations — until the budget to be adopted today was put on the table. All of this is now being reversed. In addition, there is a need to invest in the school. Thus, the kids in Billingstad may not experience sharing one teacher with up to 38 other students. Thus, the term ‘adapted training’ becomes somewhat more than just empty words, something that individual students experience as real. In addition to increased efforts in municipalities, this budget provides cheaper kindergartens, triple measures against poverty and increased efforts to combat unemployment. We're going to get all of this because we're redistributing. The richest have to pay more taxes than under bourgeois rule. But we also do it because we live in an adventurous rich country. In particular, oil and gas revenues are high. Every $12 in this budget comes from activities in the North Sea. But the rest of the business in Norway is also going well and securing income to the country. Without a well-functioning business that creates values, we have nothing to distribute. But without a good policy of distribution and a strong public sector, we are unable to secure access to the main resource of business, namely competent, well-functioning and productive people. The majority of the United Kingdom has a policy that combines better distribution and continues to provide a good framework for value creation. We are the world's richest country in terms of gross domestic product. The Economist expects approx. NOK 480 000 of national income per year. is built up next year in Norway. The same figure for Switzerland is ‘only’ NOK 360 000. The rest of the world's country is named after Switzerland on the list. Such a wealth obligates. That is why I am particularly pleased that we are increasing the amount of international aid by SEK 1.9 billion, and that we are using 0.96 pst with this. of our great national product to help the world's poor. With such large sums of aid, concrete results are very important. Therefore, priority should be given to health and education. Additional 200 million. kr for the vaccination of the world’s children is one example of such a proper bet. The vaccine is working. Help is coming, and it saves lives. In addition, it is proven to lead to better health in the population, which in turn contributes to ensuring economic growth in the future. The only part of the joy is that a party as large as the Progress Party, which is also taking lightly on the conduct of a responsible economic policy, will cut aid by SEK 9.2 billion. The rest of the Biggest stands together in the fight against poverty in the world. It is a strength for Norwegian policy that consensus in this area is so broad. Just so bad that the country's second largest party does not see the moral commitment of being the richest country in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e513	I have listened with interest to the debate today, and I must be allowed to give some praise to the red-green parties, or the socialists. For the spouse of the three parties, I have not registered for a long time. They have even gone to the financial debate with the same script, and it bears witness that there has been a good deal of conspiracy in the chamber. It's going to be interesting to see if they go to future debates with a similar script. The title of this script has been: SEK 5.7 billion for municipalities to solve everything, and DKK 5.7 billion for municipalities is definitely a whole new policy course. Then it is interesting to note that in 2004 the municipalities got a raise of between 4 and 5 billion kroner. Then there was no new course. Then there was a continuation of the course from 2003, 2002 and 2001, because then the municipalities also got a very big promise. It's nothing new. There is no new course when the municipalities now get a raise of NOK 5.7 billion. There is a continuation of the entire policy of the previous period in terms of transfers to municipalities. It only separates a few hundred million dollars from the promise made in 2006 compared to 2004 and 2005. No new course can be called. But I'm registering with interest, and this I'm going to follow with the argus eyes, that these 5.7 billion kroner are going to remove the accumulated deficit in the municipalities. They shall address deficiencies in the care of the elderly. They're going to correct all the mistakes in school. There will be a greater focus on kindergartens, a better integration of all refugees in municipalities after five years. They have to fill all the country's swimming pool. There's going to be broadband bets in all of these 433 municipalities. Yes, even the psychiatry is going to get a raise by this $5.7 billion. And what none of the red-greens, or the socialists, have said, which is actually their greatest breach of promise, is: within these 5.7 billion, I now understand that the investment in commerce is also coming. These 5.7 billions don't go far if that's what's going to be the new rate. This leads me to what is – and as I record that the Prime Minister and everyone else do not mention in a word – the greatest breach of promises to their own voters made by the socialists, by breaking the agreement with their voters throughout the campaign, and that is the national transport plan. Here comes the new course. For in national transport, the socialists, together with the Progress Party, said that there would now be a trade uplift of 22 billion dollars – 2.1 billion dollars every year for 10 years. And what is it when these socialists come to fruition in 2006? 500 million. kr. It's a promise breach of NOK 1.6 billion. No one's going to make me believe, even though the Soria Moria statement says it, that you're going to do this in four years. I would therefore like to ask the Transport and Communications Council if I am allowed to say it this way: Is it so to understand that this EUR 1.6 billion break in traffic will come as an increase in 2007, or will we go with us these 1.6 billion left behind in 2007, in 2008 and in 2009? I'm afraid that in 2007, too, we will get a joint script from the socialists saying that, within the framework, we didn't find ourselves able to add to these 1.6 billion, which we promised our voters, nor do we find ourselves able to follow up on the NTP in relation to 2007. Then the delay increases by another 1.5 billion kroner. It's the new course of this government: a series of lifting breaks that they cover by giving 5.7 billion kroner to 433 municipalities – which, incidentally, is giving more to the rich. For all municipalities, a promise is given. All of these 300 municipalities with profits and billions on book are now getting increased transfers. So it's going to be more to the rich municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e528	It is nice to be here and to be able to participate in the presentation and later this evening to adopt the budget of the majority government. Despite short-term and tight frameworks and starting from a budget provided by the right-wing government, the result has been good: more money to the community, more money to combat poverty, increased welfare production in municipalities and cheaper and more kindergartens, to mention something. The price for this is less tax-free, mainly to those who at least need it. We'd like to pay that price. I want to start from cultural policy to show the difference in priorities and ambitions between Bondevik II and the red-green government. For approx. A year and a half ago, in the context of the discussion of the cultural message, I had the pleasure of helping to present the so-called "Culture Promise", a plan which, unlike the communication itself, is committed to stepping up and investing in the cultural field for the next ten years – an obligatory plan which has as its concrete objective a 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes by 2014. For us who worked out the cultural promise, it is in retrospect gratifying to see that it was we who left the template for the further work between the three parties. We were like this, in our field, drawing up the first draft government statement for the red-green parties. In the Bondevik government's message, there was also a desire to invest in culture, but there are two statements that, at least in my head, are left. One is the ambition of ‘monthly increase’ in most fields, and the other is Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, who, with the Per-Kristian Foss pen, ‘took hold of the economic stand’. Today, we have repeatedly heard from the representatives of the Bondevik II government that the economy is going down. I do not disagree with the fact that things are going well, but why is it necessary to ‘recall the economic standing’? Why, then, is it not possible to increase ‘monthly’ in the field of culture? Because it's not. They have not even managed to include price and salary increases in the cultural budget of the year. Since we made the cultural promise, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have never been able to decide whether what we entered the cultural promise was to open doors, or whether it was populist overbidder policy. Selected Response City Haugland concluded in ours. She said clearly from: they never get this. The budget presented shows that the red-green parties meant what they said. Today, a budget is adopted which shows the difference between government options. At the base of 170 million. In the context of government budgets, what is it now? In cultural terms, this is so much money that I could spend my entire measured speaking time rambling up good measures we could get for this money. There are many good individual measures, but I would like to highlight the cultural policy responsibility that has been taken by granting more both to the Culture Fund and to the Audio and Video Fund, and not least by providing increased support for the press. 'Cultur-Norway jublers' was stated in the papers after the presentation of the budget. Yes, not only for the cultural budget, but perhaps as much for the great promise to the municipalities. There is a lot of Norwegian culture developed and practiced in each municipality. The situation in municipalities according to municipalities has been cutting down on voluntary, sporting and cultural appropriations in recent years. In the municipality after the municipality we see that they are struggling to do the statutory tasks, and then we know how to do all the other good things. With the extra billions now going to the municipalities, it means that many more municipalities now have budgets that allow for just investing in culture, sport and volunteering. Culture is an important element of social building. Action on culture means more jobs, better integration, poverty reduction, better health, better quality of life, learning and business development. In this context, it is also not unreasonable to take a look back and draw the lines from the previous ageing period, where, together with the Advance Party, the red-green parties, the only major measure, namely the cultural school bag, was launched. This is perhaps the measure that the former Minister of Culture highlighted most and was proud of in the last period — an action that she herself voted against. They'll never get this,' said Answerstad Haugland. Well, that's what we're going to get. The first step is adopted today. The path further is ready: 1 pst. of the State budget for culture by 2014. The red-green parties have both the will and the ability to complete the Cultural Promise, to rejoice both for us and for an overall Norwegian cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e549	It has been exciting to be part of a political shift. Through a long election campaign, the voters were presented with a clear majority option to the previous Right-dominated – with emphasis on dominated – government, which was largely based on the Advance Party. We know the result: the red-green parties won the majority of the people and the government power. The reports from many places now say that the majority government is already doing well with a policy shift. In just under three weeks we have presented a tax scheme that gives a clearly better distribution profile than today's arrangement. If we compare ourselves with the tax arrangements of the outgoing government for next year – or with the arrangement of the Progress Party for that matter – our distribution profile is clearly better. Let me just do a short example. In today's debate, the Progress Party claims that their tax reliefs have a better social profile than the government's. But at the same time, they are proposing to remove the entire tax on wealth. This will only mean an average tax relief for the hundreds of the richest in Norway of about 5 million. kr. In contrast, the Government will provide them with a tax boost of 1.1 million. kr. This clearly demonstrates the need to take care of the entire tax system when assessing what is fair or not. That's the way it is – it's possible we have a similar script, but I think the representative Hagebaken said it very well in place – that it is now time to cheer in many municipalities. For example, next year, Drammen municipality will have nearly 30 million. kr to spend on our elders, on the young and on the culture, for that matter. Or a municipality like the Lower Eiker in Buskerud, which would otherwise have to cut down drastically, is now getting away a little cheaper with our arrangement. In addition to these efforts, we have in a short time been able to achieve a boost for culture, for kindergartens, and many other small and big changes. We are in no way in goal, because the budget we are debating today is the first step in a new direction towards a new course and away from privatisation and other measures, which are very far away from us who have hearts like banks for good Community solutions. It is a strength for democracy that we have now placed the responsibility for politics in a government with a majority here in the United Kingdom. But I also think it's a strength that we have an opposition that wants something different with Norway and with the world. Earlier today, we have heard more people point out the tour to the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party of Siv Jensen to a war army and poor Uganda. On the trip, the representative met Jensen, among others. the 14-year-old boy Okene Keneth, who was forced to abduct and kill as a child soldier already at the age of 11. It was after what I understood, a strong and gripping toe-off moment at St. Mary's Hospital in Gulu, Uganda. According to VG, Jensen himself describes the meeting with the shot-damaged boy as follows: ‘It was a gripping moment. He was a living proof of how cruel a human creature can be, and how small a child's life is in this conflict." This I must say was unusually well said. And there are millions of children who have the same evil in the world today. But then there must also be reason to ask whether there are many tears of representative Jensen and the other members of the Progress Party today felling around in the offices of the Storing Building, having seen the Progress Party's alternative budget proposals in these areas. We've heard it before, but it can be said many times, because it's not good enough, you ask me: they cut out $9.2 billion in the aid budget and use the money to finance more or less sensible purposes in Norway. Earlier today, fiscal spokesperson of the Progressive Party of Ulf Leirstein defended in the debate the aid shots that trade was the only rewarding solution for the world's poor. With all due respect: the working party and the other red-green parties believe that this is not good enough. When such freedoms can be taken with the budget knife, it is not difficult to make a government budget in Norway. From the Labour Party we are more than willing to discuss a fairer world order for trade, but our starting point is that this in itself is not enough to lift poor people out of misery. Therefore, the government's budget includes an increase in aid to the world's poor, as opposed to the Progress Party, which cuts more than 9 000 million. kr. The budget debate and my examples, I think, are warning of an exciting political future in this country – a political situation in which we have a majority government that will join forces in Norway and in the world, against a progressive party that obviously does not spend any money to finance its tax reliefs, especially to people with large assets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e576	It is now beginning to be a while since the election was over and the red-green option could start the outing of its new course for the Norwegian community, through late negotiations at Soria Moria. The expectations of what was to come were sky-high, all the time that the Norwegian people had heard the fairy tales of what was to happen just one got in place a majority government consisting of the red-green parties, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Yes, there would be new hospitals in several places in the country. Proportions in health care were to be reduced, yes, one could almost get the impression that they were to be removed completely. The Riksfergen was to be free, hospitals were to be strengthened considerably, more new prisons were to be built, and road billions were to be nearly destroyed throughout the country. But the thing that was quite clear was that there would be 10,000 new year's work in care and care, and there would not be a single penny in tax relief until it came out of the care of the elderly. Then came the long-awaited state budget. The first thing to do is to repay LO for the effort they made during the election, by giving precisely tax relief to these members through a multiple of the deduction of the union quota, without it being certain that the elderly care will be provided as much as a single new year's work. Of course, it is because no funds have been earmarked for the municipalities for the care of the elderly. What about the other promises? The Soria Moria Declaration under the Health Services chapter lists a number of bullets. The last of these points sounds like this -- to be absolutely sure, I took the Soria Moria statement, so I'm going to read the point: ‘reduce and keep health care components at a low level.’ [[...]] The Soria Moria statement barely got cold enough before torpedoing their own government statement by applying a brand new trait to sick people who need physiotherapy services. The government made sure that the patients on the so-called diagnostic list now have to pay a premium of 50 kroner that they had previously not to pay. In addition, excesses related to those who wish to make use of the free-hospital selection scheme are increased. It is quite obvious that the promises given to the Norwegian people through a long campaign are not being followed up in any way as one might assume. Who was it that would think that precisely this government, which has been so high on the ground in the fight against poverty, is putting up with a policy that, through this budget, is just making the situation of this group of people difficult. It's not the realms that are affected by the increase in food tax from 11 pst to 13 pst. Nor are the hundreds of the richest in this country – who have become the new slogan for the Minister of Finance – affected by a new feature for those who really need physiotherapy treatment. And it's not the hundred richest people in this country who can't take advantage of the possibility of free hospital choice, because they can't afford to pay for the formidable increase in the self-payment that the government is now making. One could almost expect that this kind of lifting break had not been carried out so soon after the government statement came. It should also be expected, when it is precisely the heart issues – all of which claim this has been – that have not now been implemented, that this would have meant that everyone in the massaging group of the Socialist Left Party had been standing with posters down on the lawn in front of the Stortinget today. But that protest has ceased. You've accepted what's coming, and today it's the question of how to take the hundred richest, that applies. And then it actually seems that there's no problem for these government parties to sacrifice just those people who have the least of them already. Because that is what is happening with the budget that is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e598	In the fall, the voters gave a clear message: we want other values to govern Norwegian policy. The voters wanted stability and predictability and chose a majority government. The Government states that policy should be based on freedom, justice and community. The objectives are clear: work for all, sustainable development, a fairer distribution and strengthening of the welfare state. Freedom, justice and community are important values in our policies. Value anchoring means an important shift in economic policy: it re-distributes DKK 8.1 billion in relation to the Bondevik government’s budget proposal, without changing the framework – several more get more. Priority is given to the Community and basic welfare schemes in favour of increased tax havens to some of the richest in Norway. The budget shows that the Government has turned values into action. Large parts of the world's women, men and children live under conditions we can't get into. Extreme poverty, war, hunger, sickness and daily insecurity characterize their everyday lives and children's upbringing. Epidemics, injuries and accidents no longer killed in Norway take thousands of children's lives every day. Lack of medicines, life-saving health services, vaccines, schooling and housing characterize many people’s daily lives – all their lives. Norway’s foreign policy is marked by the fact that we do not have to be ourselves enough. We have a responsibility to contribute to sharing our wealth with others other than ourselves and to making good use of the world's total resources for future generations, within and outside its own borders. The leaders of foreign and environmental policy take such responsibility. Most people are well off in Norway, but welfare is not fairly distributed. Some groups and individuals come out crooked, very crooked. We have all heard about municipalities that have to cut off interventions for the elderly, children and young people, homeless and chronically ill. NOK 5.7 billion for municipalities is an important contribution to reverse development. The representative Fleet from the Right said earlier today that the government has written out a prescription for disease that does not exist. I guess so. Some trends are disease-creating. Long-term education and a good economy enhance health and longevity. Small education and unemployment reinforce poverty, high morbidity and shorter life expectancy. Poverty is longer. Studies show that health inequalities are also linked to social status in Norway. These inequalities have been stable over the years and seem to increase. A recently published study in Kristiansand estimates that there are between 200 and 400 children living in poverty. The worst thing about being poor, telling the children, was not the lack of material things. The worst was the experience of not being able to join in with others, whether it was in sports or culture, or not being able to go on birthdays because they could not afford a gift. Keeping out of the community was the worst for these children. I don't think it's an experience that only applies to poor children. Creating coherence and extending measures for persons in medically assisted rehabilitation is very good. It is also the Government’s commitment to the prevention and treatment of women and children who are victims of violence. These measures help to break negative spirals and create more complete responses for marginal groups. The measures include people. They are welcome in because they are valuable in themselves, and because they are valuable to the community. Total increase in poverty response amounts to 263 million. kr more than the Bondevik government found money. This, together with various labour market measures, is targeted, joint and several welfare policies at national and international level. The government of Stoltenberg's course change was necessary and important. It's actually the right medicine at the right time. The spread of adverse signs of disease shall be stopped. Anne Grete Preus sings: ‘Real things grow when they are shared with more.’ This government will continue to share the real things. I'm looking forward to next year's budget, and I think I'm actually doing a lot of it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e629	Many in industry were disappointed by the government’s proposal for changes to the state budget. The economy is in the midst of a boom. You have the financial carrying ability to withstand a shot for the bow or two. The problem is that it is in good times that you create the basis for bad times too. Proposals for billions in increased taxes, billions in increased public expenditure and cuts in areas that ensure the long-term growth capacity of the economy are to say by the golden branch we're sitting on in Norway right now. It gives a short-term joy, but it results in larger problems in the longer term. In the Right, we are a little curious about the very offensive rhetoric that we experienced from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party in the industrial field during the last period and in the election campaign. At that time, the Co-operation Board was accused of over-emphasizing traditional instruments and of over-emphasizing the general framework of industrial policy. Nothing is more important for business than good general framework conditions. Access to labour at a competitive cost, access to capital at competitive conditions, tax and tax levels that do not detract from business activity, and adequate research and knowledge investment are key prerequisites for ensuring jobs and well-being in the country. The co-operation administration has cleared up the problems that came into the wake of the Stoltenberg I government. The state of the economy and the business world today is completely unenforceable, but unfortunately, the Stoltenberg II government has come into a process in which they are bringing the country back to the situation we remember from 2001, with higher interest rates, higher wage costs and higher taxes. And they do, despite coming to the table in the Norwegian economy. The co-operation government's draft budget led to an underlying growth in government budget expenditure of 0.75 p.m. So this growth is doubled by the Stoltenberg II government. As many experts have predicted, this will affect the pressure in the Norwegian economy. This in turn leads to higher interest rates for businesses and for most people, higher dollar rates and bigger challenges for the companies that live by exporting, and we have quite a few of them, for example. in the districts and upwards along the coast of Norway. Not only does the general framework conditions get worse, but the government of Stoltenberg also cuts into the traditional tools, the so-called industrial policy toolbox. Subsidies to the Norwegian Research Council, space research, research and development projects for industry and actions under Innovation Norway are included. This, in my opinion, is a business-political magic puzzle, a breach of promises in relation to what was said in the election campaign and in several of the wordings of the Soria Moria Declaration. In my opinion, economic policy is the proposal of the Stoltenberg II Government a rather strange affair and a clear step in the wrong direction. So the new government gives businesses a triple message with its budget proposal: taxes are increased, the pressure in the economy is increased and the traditional instruments are cut. Then I register with interest that the representative Lundtigen earlier today expected the government to come back to the issue of depreciation rates for machines. It would be joyous, but I have very little faith that it's actually going to happen. On the other hand, I am very proud of the profile of the adjusted arrangement from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Here, there is further focus on innovation, research and education. The cooperative government proposed to increase the budget for research and innovation in 2006 by DKK 1.4 billion. Increased room for action in the supplementaryproposition is being used by us to strengthen the commitment to research, innovation Norway and travel life further. Right, Christian People's Party and Left add up to less use of oil money than the government, and in addition, the money we spend will give less pressure than the government spends. This shows that, unlike the Stoltenberg II government, we have a real willingness to invest in a forward-looking business in Norway, which can ensure the well-being of the country even after oil revenues start to fall. It is frightening to note that in just three weeks the Government has used up most of the space for action in increasing taxes back to 2004 levels. There is now less than NOK 2 billion back to the 2004 tax level. Nevertheless, billions of bets remain in the government statement. This means that there is a difficult, unpaid bill in the form of non-invading promises to take seriously the wording of the declaration not to increase taxes beyond the 2004 level, or to spend more oil money. We are facing a policy of promise from the new government, which can involve tax cuts far beyond what is promised in relation to the 2004 level, or increased use of oil money. So we've just seen the contours of what becomes the business environment in this magnification period. I believe that the good results achieved by the Cooperative Government in the field of business speak a clear language. Growth is today three times higher than in the euro area. 55,000 new enterprises have been created in four years. Employment goes up and unemployment goes down. If we are to achieve a good welfare development in Norway with safe jobs and a good public welfare offer, there must be long-term economic policy and company conditions. We must create, not just distribute. It is unfortunately on this point that the change in course is most obvious – and it goes in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e662	In the election campaign, the three red-green parties promised a change of course. We've kept that promise. We have strengthened our efforts to combat unemployment. We have provided a fairer distribution. And we have a strong strengthening of well-being and community. In the field by area, we are in the process of implementing the promises of the election campaign, of the Soria Moria Declaration and of the Government Declaration. One of the areas where we might have gone top of the track and had the most concrete promises was within the cultural field. For the first time, major important parties in Norway raised culture into an election campaign and said they wanted an offensive initiative. The background was the debate on the communication of culture, in which the three red-green parties committed themselves to escalating their efforts to 1 pst. of the State budget – a target SV has had for many years, to which the Senterpartiet has joined, to which the Workerspartiet also agreed, and with which we went to the voters. It was then said, from then Minister of Culture Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, that this was to open doors, it was also in the government's plans. From the Left we were told in the election campaign that 2014 was too long, that should happen by 2009. So it was not without expectation that we looked forward to the budget of the government of Bondevik when it was presented in October. But it turned out that the doors were so clearly in place. The state budget of the Bondevik government did not involve any escalating towards 1 pst. On the contrary, it meant a decline in the share of the cultural budget in the state budget. So instead of a stepping up to 1 pst. by 2014, it was halving by 2025. It has been said many times here today that we came to the deck table. It certainly wasn't about culture. We had 24 days to design our option. We were to follow up the promise to escalate the cultural allocation – SEK 1.3 billion in nine years. We could add 166 million. NOK the first year, SEK 149 million. kr for pure cultural purposes. We're on track. The government implements the promises. Just to put it in perspective: this one-year cultural promise equals, if we compare with the tax rate of the previous government parties and the Advance Party gave in the previous period, one-and-a-half-day tax credits. Then we had the same level of taxation as we had in 2001 for a day and a half, we could afford to double the cultural promise in 2006. But the other parties had different priorities. Here we're going to add up to $15 million. SEK to Frifond, ten new volunteer centres, SEK 14 million. NOK more for film, SEK 22 million. kr more for music, for festivals, for music workshop, 5 million. kr for free performing arts and dance – and many, many more actions. Per Sandberg said here that we're a convoluted bunch. Yeah, we're an enthusiastic, interconnected bunch in this area. But it's not just about culture. These are good growth conditions, they are about quality of life and health, they are about integration, they are about creativity and industrial development, and they are not least about combating poverty. In the newspaper a few weeks ago one could read about one who was poor and described his situation. She says, ‘You're being excluded from social activities. Everything costs. It'll cost you to go to the Tøenbadet, it'll cost you to go to the cinema. I don't have the opportunity to do what the other person does." Perhaps this is the most important dimension of the cultural effort, that everyone is included in the activities and measures that mean so much to the quality of life. Perhaps the most important cultural promise we make, not the state budget appropriations, but the 5.8 billion dollars in the local economy. That's what gives the thousands of tips to the school corps, which gives the theatre team a little bit more power, which allows ordinary kids to afford to go to the cultural school, to join the spearhead, which allows the municipality to borrow reasonable premises to volunteer teams and organizations, or to rock a library branch threatened with closure. It must be to the horror of some of the old government parties not being able to vote in favour of the measures we are now implementing. Because it has to be in the middle of the flash of representatives like Ola T. Lånke, Trine Skei Grande or others who often talk about culture, to be on such a stake. It's a shame you don't use that opportunity. For us, the cultural promise is not just money, it is also raising culture. The Minister of Finance has said this: Culture is investment in democracy, innovation and everything that makes life worth living – and good business policy. The Prime Minister says: Culture is about the basics of our society, about identity, belonging, commitment, about joy and entertainment, and about making sense of life. Any Minister of Culture is concerned about culture. I'm proud to belong to a government where the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, the Minister of State and the entire government are committed to giving culture a boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e687	In the context of the 2005 budgetary procedure, the Workers' Party and the Centre stated that there was a precarious situation in the municipalities, where church councils had to reduce sharply in key areas of community work and church acts. In relation to the work of the Joint Councils, it was also stated that the State grant had to reflect the expenditure obligations of the Joint Councils. The Government has now proposed a reduction in the grant of close to 18 p.m. My question to the Minister of the Church is, Why is the situation no longer precarious? How are the Joint Councils now to fulfil their employer function? Or was it perhaps this that was the reason he didn't mention the Church with one word in his post?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e694	The reason I didn't mention it in one word was that I was absolutely sure to get that particular question, and I was glad to have the answer in return. I've seen in the papers that part of the opposition is worried about a cut of 10 million. kr to the ecclesiastical councils of the municipalities. Well, the municipalities get 5,800 million. kr more in their framework transfers. So if you take the 5,800 million. kr and subtracts 10 mill. So it's going to be $5,790 million. kr i plus. And you can ask the church councils, those who are going to clean up the churches around Norway, those who are going to keep warm in the churches through the winter, those who are going to keep at the same cemeteries, those who are going to hire some deacons, those who are going to make arrangements for the pastors, those who are going to make sure that the confirmation education has enough money, or all the other measures that the municipalities are going to contribute to in the Church, it seems better to get plus 5,790 million. kr on the state budget of the municipalities, or whether they think it is better to get 5 800 million. kr less in transfers, but get 10 million. kr in the designation of the Council of Churches. I think the answer is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e701	It's a pleasure to see an enthusiastic Minister of Culture. I see formally how he must have distributed money with both hands, where he has been sitting and spreading his 170 million. kr. Now, however, I'm not going to go into it that much, but just get into the Minister of Culture's speech at the Norwegian Culture Council's annual conference the other day. The Minister of Culture then pointed out that it might not be entirely unproblematic to have a unilateral state funding. The Minister of Culture was aware that we had small environments, and he explicitly stated that private funds were also sought in the context of cultural councils. I expect that the cultural promise will continue, and that there will still be plenty of money. My questions are: Will the Minister of Culture address projects where private and public funds are matched? How does the Minister of Culture think that even more private money will come into this context? And can he also imagine going into arrangements where we get more decision-making bodies than just Norwegian Cultural Councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e708	The answer is yes. I want to get as much money as possible for culture, including private money. There's some healthy scepticism about sponsoring culture or private donations, because you're afraid that the money will tie up the artists' freedom and integrity. But I think it's quite possible to develop a mesen culture or a donation culture in Norway too, where rich people see an obligation to give back to the community, as some are very, very good at, but to which many could have been even better. It may be that some of it can also be done in combination with public funds, but we need to ensure that we have sound and sound public funding at the bottom. On the other hand, I am more sceptical about establishing more and more new bodies to distribute the money. Because I think a challenge is to reduce bureaucracy, reduce administration, reduce the form field, and get more of the money out into culture. But I am pleased that the representative Olemic Thommessen says that he believes that the cultural promise will continue. Such trust in the Government is good to have from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e715	I would like to congratulate the Council of State Giske on a great cultural budget, but I would like to remind you that he is also Minister of the Church, and we did not hear much about that. But I assume that Minister Giske agrees with me that freedom of belief and religion is an important human right. In the Soria Moria Declaration, this is very strongly underlined, and also that one will contribute financially, so that there will be a diversity of religious practices in Norway. They also say that this is an enrichment for society. Then it is all the more incomprehensible that the first government is resorting to, is to remove the grant to private church buildings, where the purpose is to support the construction of buildings directed by religious communities outside the Norwegian Church. At Tautra, inside Trondheimsfjord, some Catholic nuns have established a nun's monastery, to a great extent enrich the community and the region. They have construction plans, and are waiting to receive public support for this. Now they lose this support because it's being removed. I hope that the Council of State can confirm that he will see if it is possible to find a mechanism to enable such buildings to obtain support in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e720	It is also necessary for our government to do some cutbacks, because we are going to keep a responsible line of action and budget balance and all of these things that the Minister of Finance is talking good and hot about, and that the entire Government is behind. With regard to the cut of private church buildings, it cannot be a surprise to anyone, for it was also proposed by the government of Stoltenberg in its budget in the autumn of 2001. So we've at least said quite clearly from earlier what we mean about it. I think that money represented a very small proportion of these construction projects, and so I don't have such a great impact on the implementation of construction. But I agree with the representative Lånk's view of having a variety of religious movements and activities in Norway, and that the state has a responsibility to facilitate it. We have one of the world's best funding schemes, where the free church groups get the same support as the state church members get, because there's going to be crowns for crowns according to the same system. I'd like to take the opportunity to say that we get a very important discussion in this big period about our state church. I'm happy, and hope that we get close cooperation, opposition and government, because here we need broad participation and broad solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e729	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e732	We are now getting disturbing messages from more and more municipalities that the minimum pensioners are making up an increasingly large part of those who need social assistance. Many of those who today are minimum pensioners are the generation that through a long and active life has helped build up the wealth we today take for granted. What does the majority of the Storing do with this, and how does the Government's budget proposal affect it? We heard in the election campaign, and especially from the Workers' Party, that the fight for the elderly and against poverty should be the first commandment. I want to start by saying something about how the increase in property taxes hit the minimum pensioners first. Many of those with high values today are just minimum pensioners, not because they have built up large fortunes in the form of shares or money in the bank, but because the value of the house they built in the 1950s and 1960s has risen dramatically. Many built houses at that time in a small area. But in 40 years, what was a small dense place has become a city-like area with sky-high prices. There are many examples of this, where the city core has grown dramatically over the last 20 years, a development that was impossible to predict 40 years ago. This, of course, has led to a severe pressure on the housing market, which in turn has led to housing prices. This has led to the fact that entirely ordinary houses have had a capitalization that is currently shown as a fortune. One has to include that none of those today who are minimum pensioners and who invested in houses in the 1950s and 1960s did so in order to have an investment object, but to get a safe home. When then the red-green government increases the property tax by writing down the value by 25 pst. for these houses, the minimum pensioners are hit hardest. They have to take off the minimum pension, which is today approx. NOK 110 000 to pay this tax increase. This increase in taxes goes into the bluff of the red-greens that the so-called rich will pay more taxes. The party of progress wants to go the opposite way, namely to remove this unsocial tax. It may seem that the red-green government wants to increase the tax on minimum pensioners, so that they have the money to lower the taxes to their friends in the LO, and then I think of the trade union deduction that is being greatly increased, and that must be financed, as you know. As if this isn't enough, the red-green matmoms increase by 2 pst. Now it's like poor people also eat, but it's only if they get food or if they have money to buy food. If the government thinks it's the so-called realm that is hardest hit by this fee increase, they're wrong. It is precisely those who are categorised as poor, and those who have the least, that are hardest hit by this increase. Fees are the most unsocial tax, because they hit the hardest those who have the least to pay with. It is unworthy, in my view, that a country with the wealth we have will treat those who are at the bottom of the ranks, in this way. The tax increases that red-green parties impose on minimum pensioners and others with poor advice will lead to more people having to take the heavy road to the municipal social office. The Progress Party considers it unworthy that those who took part in the construction of this country after the war should be treated in such a way. We think it's time to go the other way, that's to let today's pensioners take part in the increase in wealth that they've actually been building up. It is directly selfish that we put all the money into pension funds so that we, who are doing well today, also ensure our descendants – without considering that today's minimum pensioners are going to be able to escape some of the benefits we have. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the minimum pension be increased in the budget, at DKK 5000 per year. years. It shall be in addition to the annual social security schemes in May. In addition, the Progress Party proposes that the equality between pensions granted to married and unmarried pensioners continue until full equality is achieved. During the spontaneous questioning yesterday, I received a response from the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, to a question about the reintroduction of burial aid to everyone that it was the Progress Party that had dissolved the scheme in the budgetary agreement with the government of Bondevik. It is right that the Progress Party – like the Workers' Party, which entered into budgetary settlements with the Bondevik government the year before – had to settle in areas where we initially disagreed. That's how settlement works. The difference between the Progress Party and the Labour Party is that we in the Advance Party are trying to fix things up when we can. That is why we propose to reintroduce the scheme of NOK 5000 to everyone, and with a need-tested portion of NOK 12 000, so that you can get a total of NOK 17 000. But it is obviously not so careful for the Workers' Party. Combating poverty does not happen through the use of words, as the Red-Green Government adds, but through action, as the Progress Party suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e761	The President would argue that the 'bluff' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e764	Today we shall adopt a budget for the strengthening of the Community and of the welfare community. It's a budget for fairer distribution. We're going to spend the big money on the big tasks. But it's also important that we create values to distribute. For the Workers' Party, ‘to create’ and ‘to share’ are two pieces of work that are closely linked. Therefore, I am glad that industrial policy was a central theme during the election campaign in the fall. For us in the Labour Party, active industrial policy has always been important. The selectors now selected a new number and a new government to repopulate the Toolbox. The new government's Soria Moria statement was a farewell to nutrition neutrality. Together with the SV and the Centre Party, the Labour Party will pursue an offensive industrial policy to secure value creation and further develop the welfare society. We will establish new and better tools to secure employment and growth across the country. Our goal is for Norway to become one of the leading, most innovative, dynamic, and knowledge-based economies in the world before the areas where we have premonitions. Norway shall be a good country for commercial purposes. The State shall be engaged, in partnership with business and employees. The public tools must be strengthened. The State budget we are adopting today provides a good basis for securing competitive edge for Norwegian industry. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we also focus on entrepreneurs. We will include: the extension of the establishment grant scheme under the auspices of Innovation Norway and the provision of a founding bank. We want to secure entrepreneurs and to establish the good social arrangements, among other things. look at the conditions for self-employed workers when it comes to combining professional careers with childcare. And we want to bet on women. We will create funding mechanisms that specifically stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship among women. Norwegian shipping industry has long traditions. Shipping and the maritime industry contributed to many and important competence workplaces along the coast. The Soria Moria Declaration is clear when it concerns the ambition of Norway to be a world-leading nation within maritime research, development of competences and innovation. Through good and stable framework conditions, we will help secure jobs and growth in the maritime industries. An extension of the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, as proposed in the State budget, will be one of the most important tools to achieve this. In other words, the toolbox is about to be filled. Maritime industries and seafarers face safer times, and – perhaps most importantly – multi-territorial government is careful and long-term for the industry, which it needs to invest in new tonnages. The public tools, through e.g. Innovation Norway, has been significantly weaker during the Bondevik administration. With the support of the Progress Party, the budgets for innovation and innovation have been cut dramatically compared to the budget from the previous Stoltenberg government. A force has been taken to fix it. Compared to the 2005 budget, there is a large increase – and yet another tool that is ready for use in the toolbox. Of other tools, I will mention the work on new acquisition laws and an active ownership policy. The aim of the new Majority is to create a living agriculture throughout the country. This is a demanding goal, and a targeted policy is needed to achieve this. Not least, the challenges are great in relation to the WTO negotiations. But there is every reason to pay tribute to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Agriculture for their efforts in these negotiations. It is also a pleasure for an executive to be able to contribute to providing a budget that strengthens the local economy to such an extent. This strength is 15.1 million for the Ski municipality only. kr. There are loving means, which are clearly used in well-being, in school and in the elderly. Therefore, it is a pleasure to adopt a budget for work, for knowledge and for safe old age.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e794	Where I'm usually employed, in the Church's City Mission, we sometimes call some events for a board of directors. The previous article was about research and innovation, and that's what I'm going to talk about. It may seem as if the representative who had spoken before me, had happily deepened in the budget of the Bondevik II government: when we look at that budget and the signals coming from the Stoltenberg II government, we see that in two important areas of long-termity, predictability and the creation of values for the future and building civilization, two important steps have been taken. One major step is that in the budgetary rounds that are taking place, it has been proposed to reduce the provision of the Research and Innovation Fund by DKK 25 billion. That amount – and the return on that amount, approx. 900 million. kr in 2007 – is not the main focus of Norwegian research, but it is the core that creates long-term and predictability in a policy area where populist wins cannot be expected to produce a wave to bet on it. If there is any area that requires long-term and political will, it is the will to keep research in focus. It's an area that's a test of the ability of politicians to go past the short term. Just as one environmental policy must have such a perspective, research policy has that perspective. Here, the Stoltenberg II government has chosen to give two signals. One thing I've been in, that's the signal where you cut into the Research Fund. There is no budget in 2006, but it affects the 2007 budget. We all know what it's all about: it's about the social economists' reasoning on long-term commitments in the budget. And in some areas you have to have long-term bonds. That's what happened when the Stortinget in its time, during the Bondevik I government, decided to create a research fund: it was just to create a long-term. And taking down this fund has caused unrest among all those who depend on believing that the future will be predictable. The second step is not the same in terms of amounts, provisions or effects on a budget framework. This is what has happened under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in Innovation Norway, in SIVA and not least in Chapter 920, which is dedicated to research, research that industry can manage. And that's quite remarkable, because the government that's now sitting had a criticism of the government's research report. It did not believe in the previous government's announcement in the belief that Norwegian business could contribute to research. They were very sceptical about it. And if you're as skeptical as you were, why in the world are you cutting off the tools that are just put there to stimulate business, and to grow? Those of us who know a part of that business life, maybe especially in this big city, know that there's now a powerful undercurrent of people who think it's a big thing to create a job for themselves and create a job for others. And then, just in that area, you choose to cut -- not a lot of money, but that's exactly why it's so incomprehensible, because you're just giving the wrong signals. You give the signals that go in the opposite direction. If you're going to contrast it, you're going to have to give recognition in many ways to the party SV, which, during the research report's treatment in the previous staging, just went in for the fund to be worth NOK 70 billion. The first thing that happens when SV comes into government position is that the fund shrinks from 75 to 50 billion kroner. And at the point where you're critical – you don't think business can deliver enough – you do a cut. When I choose to talk about this topic, it's because I've promised myself that this topic I'll talk about so much that it'll eventually be impossible in the fight that's going on at budget conferences, it's up here or there, to do that kind of grip later on. It shall not be possible in Norway to weaken what is long-term and which both has the capacity to be civilisation-building in basic research and to be the creator of business in terms of how basic research and applied research can provide jobs. It is precisely the jobs that are not born, that is, the jobs that are being created, that are creating the future. It is precisely this grip that is crucial for Norway that we should be able to look forward to a period when we do not have the oil revenues. And the government that is now sitting, and the previous one, has in common that it doesn't want to throw oil money at people, it wants to be responsible in that area. Just because you are responsible, the Research Fund was cut off surprisingly – and I would say disappointing – because it is possible to ensure this in a long term. Later today, a proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left will be voted on, which gives a chance to indicate whether or not to continue sending researchers out there – and remember that many of the researchers, the scholarship holders, are our time proletarians; it is people who, for a lice wage, struggle with a social-hearted banker deep inside them, and who believe in building society – a good signal or a bad signal. That's the question. The chance is there!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e809	Today, too, a small piece of Norwegian political history is being written when the representatives of the Labour Party, the SVs and the Central Party adopt the framework for next year's budget. The centre party is proud to be part of a centre-left government that has begun to give the country a new political course, where defrosting, community, equivalency and sustainability are the leading stars. The centre party went to the elections on three issues that we told the voters that we were going to promise the next big time: we were going to strengthen local welfare, we were going to take a boost for culture and volunteering, and we were going to put in place a more active business policy. Through the budget presented, we show that we are delivering on the issues that we said in the election campaign that we should raise. Municipalities receive a strong boost: DKK 5.7 billion more in free income in 2006 than in 2005 is important for people's everyday lives. This will result in more teachers in school, more hands of care, more support for local, voluntary cultural life. This allows local authorities to take up the important prevention work. It is possible to have room to continue to invest in the elderly centres; efforts for young people may continue to be strengthened, inter alia, by: youth clubs. It shows that it is possible to move towards a more preventive society and, to a lesser extent, a repairing society. The municipalities are crucial for us to get the transformation into thinking that we are able to think preventively, not just repairing. The starving of the municipalities has led to a good deal of places around the municipality of Norway making both unwise and short-term decisions, not because the municipal politicians wanted it, but because they had no choice at all. We will give our locally elected people the opportunity to act rationally, to do what they want, to develop their local environments. And it's nice to record the joy and relief that prevails in Municipality-Norway, completely independent of political affiliation. Municipal economy is also a matter of popular government. The starving of the municipalities undermines popular rule and local democracy. Living folklore requires that you have the freedom of action locally, that you can use your head locally, that you can do wise things, that you can be something more than an exerciser of state policy. Through a strengthened local economy, we also provide the basis for future recruitment to local policies and – not least – for a broad local political commitment. My party talked a lot about culture and volunteering in the election campaign. Now we're following the cultural promise. We are of those who believe that culture makes us happier and fresher, makes us more creative, more empathetic. Some of us actually think that culture is cure for the most part. It contributes to quality of life, gives us more meaningful lives. If there's something we need to talk a lot about in the future, it's just how we're going to give people meaningful lives. The centre party has talked a lot about active business policies and increased commitment to commerce. With this budget, we're showing that we're on our way. The transport budget is increasing by 460 million. kr. That's the best we could do. There's no doubt that if we're going to be able to make the District Policy promise of which the Government has ambitions, we need to see these things in context. Then we have to look at the local economy, industrial policy and new initiatives in the area of district policy in a comprehensive perspective. We are concerned that people should have freedom of choice, and not least people should have freedom of choice in relation to where they want to live. The government is on its way. We're taking important lift. We're strengthening local welfare, we're taking a cultural policy boost, we're taking an environmental policy boost. Yeah, we're about to take the district policy promise that we have ambitions about. We're not on target, but we're on our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e830	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e833	If there were any government parties talking about in the election campaign, there was more money for elderly care and more money for school. Then it's interesting to see what the municipalities actually do now when the government comes with extra appropriations in free income to the municipalities. That's exactly what's the problem -- the free income that municipalities can dispose of and use as they want. In Bergen they have to pay off debts. In Fredrikstad they will reduce the municipality's deficit. In Sandnes and Larvik, they're going to do the same thing. Actually, it's about 60 pst. By the municipalities, according to the surveys carried out by the Municipal Report, they are not going to spend more money on the care of the elderly and the school. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Is the Council of State willing to use earmarked funds now to ensure that the municipalities spend the money as the government parties actually promised in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e840	The answer to the question whether we want to give earmarked funds to the municipalities is no. The answer to the question of whether we believe that we will have a strengthening of local welfare in relation to school and care is yes. The difference between the government parties and the Progress Party is that we, the government parties, have confidence in the local politicians. We know that there are unusually many interested people in the local government around Norway who have one ambition: to help provide better services where they live, and to lay the foundation for local involvement. It makes no sense that I should sit on the seventh floor of a block in Oslo and define what is right to do in the different municipalities in Norway. To that, Norway and Norwegian municipalities are too different. Yes, there will be better well-being in Norwegian municipalities with our arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e849	‘Your speech shall be yes, yes, no, no;’ it says somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e852	The government often shows that they are proud of the Nordic welfare model. That's right too. In Denmark, 38 000 older people receive their home help from private sources, but at the municipality’s expense. The new study by the Ministry of Social Affairs states that of those who use free choice of user and choose private home help workers, 73 are pst. Very satisfied, while among those who get help from the municipality, is 54 pst. Very satisfied. For the municipality and for the users, the two schemes cost the same thing. Will the Minister of State use these experiences from the Nordic welfare model to facilitate the possibility for more elderly people in Norway to choose schemes with which they will be more satisfied? Or, in order to ask the question in another way, can the Minister of Local Councillor guarantee that he will not pry the wheels so that the municipalities can continue to facilitate this type of scheme for their citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e859	As far as care for the elderly is concerned, I think many people in this room agree with the ambition to improve it. We have clear objectives about that, and we believe that we are facilitating it by the way we now contribute to strengthening the local economy. It is essential that people receive the services they need. We are convinced that through the public system we are able to provide older people in Norway with a qualitatively good offer. If there's something we're going to work on in the future, it's just improving the quality. It is fully possible within the framework of the public system to contribute to the increase in quality, and you're going to hear this Council of State talk unusually much about quality in the future. We are concerned that we should facilitate the strengthening of well-being for all, including in the care of the elderly. An equivalent offer we are best prepared to make through the fact that it is the public that has the primary responsibility. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e868	The President will remember the speaking time, which is 1 minute in the change of line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e872	The centre party and the left have in common that we have been happy in the house and home and to provide security for it. We, remembering the efforts of the representative Lundtigen to ensure that it was safe for the house and home, wonder that the central party in the sitting government has helped to increase the value of the equation by 25 pst. Together with the property tax, it turns out that we get a real extra tax on the institution at home, on which the party attaches great importance. This, of course, affects people everywhere. It also affects those who today take responsibility for having the home as a basis for running a farm and thus create values for the country. I have to admit that it is with some wonder that I see this happening, because I had thought that the government, which has been open and honest about the existence of tax revenue, would find it in a different way than making the home a tax item. I wonder how the municipal minister, who also has heavy executive positions in the Senterpartie, can explain this tax on people's houses and homes, and what that means for people both in the city and in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e877	The representative Dørum and I fully agree on how important it is to ensure the security of the house and home, as this was said. We've always agreed on that, and we're probably always going to agree on that. One of the important things we have done in this budget in relation to the wealth tax is that we have increased the bottom line. We've increased that beyond what the Bondevik II government has provided. We have also passed on what was in the budget to the Bondevik II government, that in a situation where there are two spouses, both of them will be able to have the same deduction, and if you're a cohabitant, you'll be able to have the same thing. In fact, the increased deduction will address the concerns expressed by the representative Mr Dørum. It is also a fact that with our arrangement, less pensioners will receive property taxes than with the arrangement that the government Bondevik II provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e886	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e889	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the new Stoltenberg government shows a strong willingness to pursue a policy that creates more justice and community. With the right-wing dominant Bondevik II government, Norway's municipalities unfortunately end up sparebluss. Too many are without work, and the poor experience a brutal and unworthy reality. We have inherited a civil budget that was built on completely different values and priorities than the Workers' Party wants. I see with great enthusiasm that the majority government has done what it can to fix this, despite the short but very effective 24 days it has had at its disposal. This budget already demonstrates improvements and makes it possible to deliver. The formidable increase in municipalities is not just to the cheer of the country’s schools and elderly centres. It also gives a strong boost to major cities, which in a modern society have special challenges, such as crime, integration and poverty. For the capital part, expectations were overfilled. Only Oslo gets 364 million. NOK more and a total of 500 million. kr more than this year. In practice, it means more effort in school leisure schemes, leisure clubs, local police and libraries, which have an irreplaceable role in prevention. The Groruddalen is finally included for the first time in the title of a separate budget line, which the previously forgotten area deserves. It gives a good start to the future Groruddal plan, which is needed for the well over 100,000 people living there today. Support for Oslo inner-east intriguing schools and development projects will be increased to 40 million. kr. It is not nice that even bourgeois rapporteurs and municipal politicians are very pleased. The government has decided that poverty should be eliminated, a very ambitious project where there must be more than one job. But what we know is that a prerequisite for achieving this is that there is a social housing policy at the root of it. Therefore, it is in place that the government improves the housing support for the disadvantaged in large cities such as Bergen, Oslo, Stavanger, Drammen and Kristiansand, where it has become too expensive to live. In Oslo, which has been right-wing for 25 of the last 30 years, a cynical policy has been pursued, with market rents in municipal housing. As a result, very many people have become unnecessary social clients. And precisely because you have run such an unfair amount of rental scheme that is income graded, it doesn't pay off too many to work. I remember, and I think it's great, that the government takes responsibility and grips for these people who have ended up in this devastation and this difficult life situation. In the fight against homelessness and poverty, raising housing is an absolutely necessary contribution. We are particularly pleased with the child policy focus in the fight against poverty. For a long time we've heard sad stories about children who are afraid of party days and holidays, children who eat soup and cry for dinner every night, and children who can't afford to go on medical visits because Mom and Dad don't have enough money. Therefore, it is gratifying and very important that the child supplement for recipients of parental rehabilitation and rehabilitation benefits is now considerably increased and that child poverty should be given more attention through child protection. I am very proud that this budget is a clear breach of the unsocial profile of the outgoing Right-dominant government. With this starting point, I'm very optimistic, and I'm looking forward to seeing what we can do over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e904	The President has some doubts as to whether the word «dynamic» used in this context is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e907	It had been tempting to start by following up the expectations of the previous speaker to the coming government and the boast that was there. In this way, it might have been appropriate to say: if anyone should look forward to it, it is those who commit crime in this country, because they have the opportunity to have the happy days of the Lord – if you can say so – with the government we have now received. There are many of us who have had great expectations of the Government, and who were reasonably excited about what kind of handle they are going to take. For my part, I was not least in relation to the new Minister of Justice. I've had the pleasure of knowing him for four years, and it's a very capable and upstanding gentleman and a good politician, in whom I've had great faith. Then the disappointment gets bigger when I see what he is actually able to deliver when he first comes to Stortinget and is going to show what he has achieved in his own government. Even if you are satisfied with approx. Eighty-seven million. kr to the police, I guess it's really minimal in a bigger perspective. I have recorded that the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party and others today have constantly compared what the Progress Party is doing with what it has done. Then it's tempting for us others to be able to do it too. When I hear the Minister of Justice saying that we have now received a reinforcement in addition to the 87 million for the police, I dare remind the assembly that for the current year, the same increase was 250 million. NOK – so three times as much, and we didn't even have a majority government. Nevertheless, we have three times as much ability as this government does. So to another thing that concerns our capital, with the problems you have here in relation to crime, organized crime and other types of crime. For the current year, we strengthened Oslo with over 100 million dollars. kr. So now Stoltenberg has turned 6 million. kr. Six million is the number of the year! You might not want to talk about Joker Nord here, but that someone needs help is clear. The criminal justice system, which has been a mantra for the current Minister of Justice, must be strengthened by 19 million. kr. For the current year, we strengthened it by 30 million. kr with the Bondevik II Government. With regard to the construction of a new prison in Halden, there has been an ongoing theme for the Judicial Committee and, above all, for the current Minister of Justice, that the settlement queue should be reduced. The Minister of Justice was in Halden and said that now the prison should be built. The problem was that he didn't bring a penny, except for what the Bondevik government has actually suggested. It is possible that you can harvest bayberries at the expense of others, and in that case that was exactly what happened there. For my own county, and for my own part in this way, there has been cross-political work in the Justice Committee on the construction of a possible new prison in Inner Salten. There, the Bondevik government removed 80 pst. of the appropriations for the following year. There must be a blow in the face of those who voted on the Labour Party and the SV, at least in the region in which I live. Another area that also concerns me concerns about victim care and care for relatives. It is also a topic that the Justice Committee has held high, precisely because it is very important. Those who commit crime like to assume that they are driven by different forces. But becoming a victim often happens through chance. We think it is positive to support an association such as the Life After Atonement and the Church's Social Service, the Barm Project. But I'm directly bored when I see that the government hasn't found room to support the Stine Sofies Foundation, a foundation that has as its mission to support parents in families where one of the children is killed. So this government has not been able to afford to support it! I guess none of us can imagine a worse situation than that we should lose one of our kids. That's the most precious thing we have! The job that the Stine Sofies Foundation is doing is unique in Norway, at my discretion. But again, this government shows its true face and does not give one penny in grant, as I can see. Another thing that has been debated a lot lately is the rescue services in North Norway. I hope the Stortinget can now gather to get the same good coverage in North Norway as you have on the West Coast. The sun has 15 minutes of response time. I want to challenge all the parties to take a handle so that the Nordics can be equivalent in terms of the capacity and presence of the rescue services. Finally, it is true that the Police Joint Union as a trade union has close links with the Workers' Party. They have requested an investment budget of 730 million. kr. There's nothing from the government parties. We challenge them again to join in establishing an investment budget. If they were to turn around and join in, we would like to warmly welcome them after.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e928	The government has set itself the goal of eradicating poverty in Norway. I believe that is ambitious, but also quite right in one of the richest countries in the world. There's different perceptions of what it means to be poor, and at what point you actually are. The concepts are not the important thing, but that we actually take into account the fact that we have big differences in Norway, a gap that grew under the government of Bondevik, a gap between the one that has the most, and those that have the least. Combating poverty is not easy. It requires a lot more than some items on a government budget. It requires a comprehensive policy. I am of those who believe that poverty packages and action plans alone will never solve the poverty problem. It is the distribution policy that can. It doesn't help to make packages or give alms to those who have the least, while giving huge tax relief to those who have the most from before. That is why I am pleased that the government is taking action and has started work to get a fairer distribution in Norway. If we are to have a society where everyone has the opportunity to live a good and worthwhile life, we actually need to redeploy through the tax system and by providing municipalities with a good economy, so that they can provide everyone with a good offer and service. It is about several hands in the care of the elderly, so that those in need of care will get it. It is about more teachers in school, better opportunities for young people and culture. We create more justice by saying no to private solutions where those who are the most resource-intensive get out of it, by providing work for all those who have the opportunity to stand in the labour market, and by implementing the planned reform for a new labour and welfare management, where there are people and not systems at the centre, and where people are to be prevented from being thrown between different agencies and social welfare schemes. It requires a clean-up in legislation and in the various benefits, ranging from rehabilitation and disability to rehabilitation, so that people can live and not fall into the poverty traps that exist. There are many who struggle to get the ends to meet, precisely because they meet the wall in rigid regulation, which can lead to many endings in the social office completely involuntary. Giving people the opportunity to get into work is one of the key prerequisites for providing security. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government proposes to increase the number of action sites and to strengthen Aetat, as well as to pursue an offensive industrial policy, and to facilitate innovation and take care of existing jobs. We must have a working life in which it is possible to be in. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that the policy of the Bondevik Government on the labour-environment law be not implemented, but rather reversed. It will mean a lot to people's everyday lives in the workplace. We live in one of the richest countries in the world, and then it's perfectly obvious that we should have a fair policy that takes care of people, and where everyone gets the same opportunities. That policy stands for the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e939	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e942	In line with the lifting break of the government of Stoltenberg, there are also lifting breaks within the transport policy, and on the road sector in particular. The additional annual billion that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre submitted for road development in the National Transport Plan 2006-2015 has become 200 million. kr in the first year of the new road planning period. As far as road development is concerned, only the Progress Party is still delivering! Worse when we look at the totality. The government – where even the Central Party has got the Minister of Transport – does nothing to dampen the price gap on petrol and diesel prices. There was also a hot topic at the end of the campaign. If I don't remember completely wrong, the Senter party was also on the track with the Progress Party and thought Norway could afford schemes that dampen the domestic price increase on fuel for cars, when the international oil price rises. The Central Party agreed with the Advance Party that the car is important to people most of the day, out in the real world! Here, too, it is only the Advance Party that delivers: we are proposing a fee for petrol and diesel that ensures a pump price of 8 kroner. It is also the case that the roadblock from the government of Stoltenberg allows users to pay for what comes from new means of road construction. 200 million. NOK to roads are accompanied by a new bill for the car user of nearly 400 million. kr – increased annual fee for mopeds, tractors and veteran vehicles, one-off charge for lorries with a total weight of between 3,5 and 7,5 tonnes and an increased annual charge for lorries and tractors with a permissible weight of less than 7,5 tonnes. It is the car users – businesses and individuals – who pay the so-called road tax from this government. The Stoltenberg government has also continued much of what is contained in the Bondevik government's draft budget. In the field of transport, there is one aspect in particular: toll financing for state road development. Toll financing is a misleading concept, driving tax is more comprehensive. In 2003, so-called ‘other funding’ of main road networks and national road networks was about. SEK 2.1 billion. In the 2006 budget proposal, this has become almost NOK 3.4 billion – an increase of over DKK 1 billion, almost 60 pst. in four years. The Norwegian oil goes so that it laughs, the money flows into the state treasury. At the same time, users pay more driving taxes than ever before, driving taxes to finance the country's road construction. Only the Progress Party will take this into account. The Progress Party proposes that the State cancel the debt on all existing toll projects. The Progress Party is increasing the investment in road maintenance, road investment and race protection so that it really does, and as we promised in the National Transport Plan, by a total of NOK 7.5 billion. It's a good investment for the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e955	The riots in France have been a wake-up to Europe. Many have been surprised that something like this could happen, and above the scope. But as early as January 2004, the UN Secretary-General had a chronicle in the Evening Post where he warned against this. He writes: ‘All those who feel responsibility for Europe’s future and for man’s dignity should therefore take a stand against the tendency of immigrants to become scapegoats for social problems. An overwhelming majority of immigrants are industrious, bold and determined. They will not be free passengers. [[...]] They don't want to live for themselves. They will be part of society." The new government will take more of the signals from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and gradually take in more of those who need our protection most. At the same time, we in this budget will strengthen our efforts to send back those who have been rejected. Over the years, it has been claimed that the Norwegian immigration policy has been blue-eyed. Yes, some mistakes have probably been made. We have e.g. not being good enough to say that everyone is needed, to say that everyone has a value. But I must also allow myself to ask: what is a blue-eyed immigration policy? Can it be, for example, are to establish closed receptions that will isolate all applicants for residence and thereby reinforce their problems? Or could it not be to grant money for your own introduction programs? What about wanting to put new compatriots in booths of the type ‘the real man is of foreign origin’? I'm sure these are examples of a blue-eyed policy that will draw us closer to French states than we are today. The government is moving in the opposite direction. Through free core time in kindergartens, we will ensure that children do not become school losers, but that they learn Norwegian before they start school. By reintroducing integration grants to municipalities, we can better ensure that everyone is included in our society. Yesterday, they received their own poster from the Contact Committee between immigrants and the authorities. Here's what it says: Point 1: Let us go to work!Point 10: Politicians: Show genuine interest in minorities even when there is no choice! Do we hear the echo from the streets of France? The history of the labour movement is a coherent freedom project. We never forget our ambition to lift all the Northmen to their own ability to choose their future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e985	I know that around Municipality-Norway tonight there are many people who are listening to this debate and are excited about the outcome. We're going to make a positive decision for the local economy, and we're going to show that we're able to go from word to action. I have received many feedback – as opposed to a representative from the Progress Party – from rapporteurs in my northern district, who unisonously enjoy what is going to happen tonight. Unlike others, I have been given a clear assurance that the improved economy will go to quality assurance of the welfare level. And – again, unlike others – the Central Party and the Government have confidence that the local politicians are able to prioritise, and we have respect for the priorities they do. Of course, there may be exceptions where adverse decisions have been taken, but these are exceptions. What is more important in this debate, and in what is being done tonight, is that we have committed ourselves to a gradual escalation in order to improve the local economy also in the long term, in order to achieve a correlation between tasks and the financial framework. We recognise that the municipalities are our main welfare producers. And I think we have to think beyond what has been the situation today. We must move from a consultation arrangement between the municipalities and the state to a negotiated solution. We need to establish constitutions for local and regional democracy. We are to have equivalent partners in the community, and we are to avoid a situation of blackouts where blackouts have been designated in advance. In the debate that has been, I miss a little perspective in addition to the details in the budget where you have pointed out plus and minus. We have put forward a budget that indicates, as many of us have done, a new policy. We want to use enhanced municipal economy – and let me use numbers from our area: 250 million. kr – make municipalities and county municipalities development partners. [[The President clubs.]] And then we admit that we have a number of areas left, which we should very much accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e995	The President will again ask that a person respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e998	The government parties fought hard for the kindergarten reform in the last growing-up period. I'm glad that some of the winners of the government budget are all children who go to kindergarten, and those who want to have a kindergarten. This will be brought into line with the development and the implementation of the objective of full, high-quality and maximum-price child gardening. The maximum price is reduced to NOK 2 250 from 1 January. The government will ensure that all children who want to do so are offered a place, regardless of their parents' economy and place of residence. It is absolutely necessary to reduce the maximum price in order to know the real need for kindergartens in Norway. We now know that when the price is put down, more people will want space. I am very happy about that, because it shows that this reform is successful. The government is adding SEK 1.3 billion more to kindergartens than the Bondevik government. A quality, good care provision is important for young children’s parents’ ability to care and to take part in their careers. It applies to both sexes. In addition to being a good educational offer, the kindergarten reform is a good equality measure. Through the common arena of kindergarten, the government will invest in the future of children. I want to underline the pedagogical importance of kindergarten, and that pre-school age is a learning intensive period that forms the beginning of lifelong learning. In order to achieve a comprehensive and coherent policy of training provision for children and young people, the kindergarten area of the Government has moved to the Ministry of Education and Research. Kindergartens operated by law of kindergarten and framework plans are a good place to be, with safe adults working according to pedagogical principles. This strengthens kindergarten as the learning arena, a voluntary part of the training cycle. Kinderhagen is central to the growth and family policy of Regenerningen, and the Government will carry out the child care reform with full child care coverage, a maximum price of NOK 1 750, and a legal right to kindergarten. The Bondevik government closed a universal welfare offer in 2003, the small children’s supplement. Children with cash support were allowed to keep the baby supplement. In this year's budget, we have adjusted the cash support with a cut equal to NOK 354 per year. months. This is not an unreasonable harmonisation. The new rate of cash support is still higher than before the winding-up of the early childhood supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1016	Providing social security is a welfare issue and an important public task. For this reason, the Government sets itself high targets for the community, including within the field of justice. We say in the Soria Moria statement that we need to ‘prevent better, clarify more, react faster and rehabilitate better’, and in order to achieve that, we need to have a targeted and balanced commitment to the entire criminal justice chain. When we propose to increase the appropriations for the police by over 87 million. kr, that means that the police can clarify more and react more quickly. The main part of the additional appropriations is to strengthen the general operational framework of the police, which is important in order to implement phase 2 of the police reform. But in addition, we will also strengthen Ekokrim, which we hope will lead to the discovery of more black economy. This is a major Community problem because it reduces money from the single fund. The government also strengthens the Oslo Police, so that it can continue the work of making Oslo a safer city. When we propose in our budget to strengthen criminal custody by more than 33 million. kr, because we see the importance of bringing down the cows through a capacity extension. We also strengthen the content of the criminal implementation through the budget of the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Health, with a total of 28 million. kr. We need to rehabilitate better. This is important when we know that one in two comes back to prison within five years of termination. We who will be working on justice policy in the next few years can also look forward to some exciting work that is already in progress or that has been announced. I think it's natural to draw out some of this. We have spent money preparing a pilot project with a new interrogation model for children who have been subjected to abuse. The project is known by the name Barnas Hus after a model from Iceland. The aim of the project is a more coordinated, comprehensive offer for these children. We also need to treat St.meld. No 42 for 2004–2005 on the role and tasks of the police. This will be a thorough examination of how the Police and the People's Party will meet the challenges facing society over the next ten years. This work has not been done since the Committee on Police Roles presented its work in 1987, and the police are today facing some new challenges that were not so strong at the time. We also need to deal with the issues of rescue helicopters and bystanders in the near future. This is a work that was largely pending during the Bondevik II government, but I know that the new government is now focusing heavily on. We will therefore ask for this matter to come to us in the Justice Committee as soon as possible in 2006. In sum, I believe that the new government is doing well to deliver what it has promised in the Soria Moria Declaration, and I am glad that the new government is putting more emphasis on security in society than the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1040	On today's map there is also a proposal from the representatives Ulf Leirstein and Gjermund Hageseter to raise the amount limit for duty-free imports. It is today that it is allowed to import duty-free of NOK 200, and the representatives then propose that this limit be raised to NOK 1000. The proposal has no support in the Committee of any parties other than the Progress Party. The majority indicate that a similar proposal was being dealt with in Stortinget as late as spring 2005, and I must say I am somewhat surprised at the zeal of the Progress Party for this proposal. Repeatedly in today’s debate, the Progress Party has been concerned about the problem of increased border trade, precisely on grounds of lost sales in Norway, and therefore a threat to Norwegian jobs. And it must be allowed to ask: will not a duty-free limit of NOK 1000 have exactly the same effect, with the loss of Norwegian jobs as a consequence? They say that it is unreasonable that the limit of NOK 200 has not been changed in many years. Yes, it might seem logical at first, but when we see what we get today for 200 kroner with what is now being imported from China by technical dolls, clothes, DVDs and CDs, we see that such products have actually become cheaper. Raise the current limit would have disastrous consequences for Norwegian producers, Norwegian distributors and sellers of such equipment. It is the stock of products suitable for such distribution and sale. Today, one with less than DKK 1000 can get DVD players who five to six years ago cost NOK 5000, one can get small music facilities, one can get clothes, one can get microphones, music equipment. At all, there are a lot of products that can be sold in this way, and not least with the establishment of the Internet and e-mail we know how easy it is to order such goods. Such a limit is likely to result in extensive trade leakage at the expense of Norwegian producers and businesses. If it was the case that we were just consumers, this is a good proposal. As citizens of society, we also need to have a greater understanding and take responsibility for more than our own consumption. It is possible that this is too much demanded by the Progress Party, but if they take the understanding they have shown today in the context of the concern for increased cross-border trade in their assessments further, we can hope that it will be a while until the next time we see a similar proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1051	Several of today's speakers have made a point that the more than 8 billion changed in relation to the Bondevik government's budget is just 1 or 2 pst. of the total budget. But it says very little about the truth. If I'm not mistaken, it's just that part of the population's expenses that goes to retirement, $88 billion. I have not registered that so many will move money from that post, fortunately. The over 8 billion that are now changing are important 8 billion. This alerts us to the start of a new political course. Norway is going well, Norway is going very well, and many are doing well. But let's remind each other that far from everyone is taking part in this prosperity development. There are people sitting at the bottom of the table, and it's hard to be poor in a rich country. That is why an important poverty effort is now taking place. And I want to add: it's another poverty effort. The poor will be part of the welfare state, they will not be on the outside and will have to apply for special poverty schemes. Private purchasing power has increased dramatically. It's good in itself – there's nothing wrong with it. However, there must be reason to ask questions about whether it is right that the money book for some, especially for those who already have enough, gets bigger and bigger while the school and care for the elderly have been built up in some places. It is incomprehensible to people that municipalities have had to cut the service offer while we read in the newspapers about record private consumption. Therefore, I am pleased that there is now a change of course in Norwegian policy, that there will be more money for community and welfare, and perhaps a little less in the thickest wallets. I will come with a confession: I have many good friends in the Christian People's Party around Rome and in Akershus. These are solid, groundless, unemployed people who stand far from the Right and the Advance Party politically. I am therefore pleased with clear signals from the Christian People's Party after the elections – perhaps the signals have not been as clear today – about the remoteness of the Right and Advance Party's policies. The only way to keep the right side out of power in many countries with something similar to the party structure that we have has been for social democrats and Christian democrats to cooperate. I therefore hope that the Christian People's Party will gradually understand its own best and the best of its values by finding its place on the centre-left side. Welcome, at least!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1062	The Workers' Party and the Red-Greens have, throughout the election campaign, tapped into the message that more to the rich are not the solution in the future. The rhetoric continues into today’s big debate – a red-green alliance that will have more well-being over tax relief,” said Schjøtt-Pedersen, fiscal spokesman of the Workers’ Party. There is talk of increased well-being over privatisation, over tax relief and over competition, as if there were some contradiction between this. The representative Schjött-Pedersen and the Workers' Party must know that this is a rhetoric built on a syllable and dubious basis. If it is carried too far, it may harm Norway’s future well-being. In fact, there is a correlation between the level of taxation and people's willingness to take risks of starting new businesses. Thus, there is a link between value creation, innovation, innovation, employment and taxation. In fact, there is a correlation between the level of taxation and people's incentive to participate actively in the labour market. Thus, there is a link between the size of the workforce and the level of taxation that in turn affects the development of our well-being. In fact, there is a correlation between the level of taxation and Norway’s ability to attract immigration and new creative forces that can contribute to the further development of the welfare society. Perhaps the most serious link between welfare and taxation that the Workers' Party's rhetoric ignores is the development of private Norwegian ownership and tax levels. Norway must be internationally competitive under the conditions of ownership, otherwise we will lose in international competition. A budget is now adopted in which the taxes on wealth are maintained and capital taxes are considerably increased. In the long term, this weakens the formation of equity in Norwegian businesses, and it weakens private ownership. Norway has a challenge in that, if it wishes, it can assume equity responsibilities for Norwegian businesses. But the state cannot ensure that the spectrum and the breadth of decision-making power are maintained. There can only be a good balance between scattered Norwegian private ownership and state ownership. In this way, today's government's rhetoric is very harmful. There is a correlation between the level of taxation and value added. Today's government acknowledges that the Norwegian economy is going down, but it does not recognise the reasons why development is as positive as it is. A new course has become the wrong course. It is good that the majority is responsible – and that alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1077	One of the Central Party's main issues in the election campaign was the escalation of the local welfare supply to the inhabitants of the country. We speak warmly for Community solutions, for a more dignified care for the elderly and for a good free school. The Soria Moria Declaration, stating that municipalities should secure resources and freedom of action in order to solve important welfare tasks, created expectations among local politicians, as well as the clear formulations that there should be consistency between tasks and funding for the municipal sector, which local politicians have been asking for for for several years. The plural – Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Party – today fulfills the promises contained in the Soria Moria Declaration. And I want to emphasize that the Center Party is very happy that there are now going to be extra 5.7 billion free dollars for the municipalities. I would venture to say that since 2006, the vast majority of residents in the country will notice that the country has been given a new government – a multi-annual government with the main objective of ensuring all good and safe welfare. This year, many local politicians have had to cut service provision for the inhabitants. In municipalities after the municipality, we have recorded a cut in the hours at school, cut in the care of the elderly and the closure of schools as a result of the Bondevik II government's welfare policy. And I would argue that there are many voters who in the election said no to the lack of welfare policy that the Bondevik II government led. The majority said in elections no to the major tax administrations, and they said yes to increasing the bet on the major Community solutions. The centre party was also busy with traffic in the election campaign. We have high ambitions when it comes to transport policy in general. An active transport policy will contribute to a positive development across the country. It will contribute to a good industrial policy and a good environmental policy, and it is crucial when it relates to both bustet and well-being. The majority will increase the transport budget in line with Stortinget’s decision in connection with NTP. I have to admit that we're not on target, but that this evening we're going to grant half a billion extra for transportation, shows that it's will. We're not in the goal, but we're going to reach the goal. The 2006 increase shows that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1092	The fall's campaign and the historic Soria Moria have contributed to the tension of expectations. The Stoltenberg II government clearly shows that the country has been given a government that intends to live up to those expectations, in confidence that the majority of the Stortinget will follow up – yes, we will take that responsibility. The Bondevik II budget has changed by 8.1 billion kroner in 24 days. It would give us something like 337 million. kr a day. There's a lot of money in a short time. We can hardly expect the government to continue moving money at the same rate of time out. But almost more important than the amount so far is the clarity of the political message: the tax festival for the few is over, the money is where they are needed most. Apart from the mandatory exercises from the opposition, or the 'finding five wrongs' which it also calls, the debate has largely concerned the winners of the budget. But there is one solid winner in this budget, except for the municipalities and kindergartens, which not so many have spoken about – strangely enough, because it is a very important part of the new policy course. When municipalities and kindergartens have their own, almost the entire balance goes slightly above NOK 1.2 billion, to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' budget. We find the money on the day-to-day allowance chapter, under wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, on child allowances in vocational rehabilitation and medical rehabilitation, under waiting wages and, in particular, in a clear strengthening of labour market measures, particularly for the benefit of the long-term unemployed, immigrants and young people. Governments raise many unsocial gaps and raise the level of ambition towards unemployment and poverty through a markedly more active labour market policy than Bondevik II. It is interesting to note that the former government parties in the financial position have partly chosen to follow the path, while the Progress Party, not unexpectedly, continues unilaterally with tax laws such as its political mantra, while at the same time using oil money at a rapid pace. So if someone were in doubt, the basic ideological difference between the right and the left. The tracks of the so-called new work party are hard to see. In that perspective, we must also see the statement to opposition leader Siv Jensen, who did not understand what the government had been doing with the last weeks. The explanation lies today: The government has worked in policy areas other than those in which the Progress Party is engaged. But those who are engaged in employee rights and offensive to unemployment and poverty can take it easy. The budget will be adopted, with three more solar winners: the municipalities, where welfare is produced, the kindergartens and all those who per. today is out of the labour market and wants to enter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1110	There has been a lot of talk about babysitting, but there has been little talk about the little children in this debate so far. Who are the kindergartens for – are they the parents, or are they the children? In most cases, it's the parents. Most of us think that the children are fine and learn a lot from being in kindergarten, but not all are equally sure that kindergarten is the best option for children under two years of age. "I can't get enough shamed babysitting. If my whole family were at home full-time, we could not give that offer to kindergartens." [[...]] Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal has said so, according to the Newspaper. No, but maybe the family could give something completely different? Maybe they could have given the children more peace and security? And maybe they could get more time to be together, be together when joys and sorrows showed up? He further stated: ‘Well, I just mean that it’s a wrong view of child rearing to think that parents are the best to raise children.’ With this statement, the Minister of Knowledge shows that, on behalf of the small children, he has found out what is best for them, while at the same time underestimating the role of parents in the lives of children. Asking young children what they miss is more time with their parents and no more pedagogues in kindergartens. It's bad for many parents to deliver from one-year-olds, who can't talk and barely walk. The love and commission that children receive from their parents can never be replaced by anyone who is employed in a kindergarten. Parents should not be in doubt as to who are the main characters in children's lives. Why does the Government aim to make it more difficult for parents who, for various reasons, do not want to use kindergartens in the first few years? Why is the role of parents underestimated? The government is still talking about freedom of choice and that it is not real until full child-care coverage is reached. A genuine freedom of choice will only be granted to parents on the day on which they are treated as parents’ right to be at home or to choose a caregiver with a nursery place by giving the same amount of benefit. If the government had chosen to increase or maintain the cash support instead of reducing it, more people would have the opportunity to make a real choice, and the kindergarten queues would shrink, which would have delighted the young children’s parents, no matter what form of care they had to choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1135	Working for all and an inclusive working life is one of the main objectives of the Workers' Party. My home country, East-Agder, is high on unemployment statistics and has too many who are involuntary social security recipients instead of being at work. In addition, many of the municipalities in East Agder are above the national average for social assistance payments. This is one of the greatest welfare and economic challenges we have. This is about quality of life and self-respect, while humans are the country's most important resource in our value creation. To achieve the goal of maximising work, we need to use a wide range of instruments and cross-cutting cooperation. The NAV reform is therefore an important and proper step at the beginning of this work. The prerequisite for the success of this reform is that you have a good local anchoring. It is very important that municipalities are fully included with their competence already in the planning and establishment phase. It must be a service that people experience as better than the one that has been, and one of the most important things must be to see the potential and the need for each individual person. But while we're going to get more people to work, we also have to organize working life in such a way that there's room for everyone, including those who for some reason can't deliver 100 pst. Laws, regulations and agreements between the social partners have a major impact on the living conditions of workers and on the ability to work. I am therefore pleased that the new government has reversed the intensifications made in the Working Environment Act, and not least in terms of the use of temporary employment. Having a regular job means security and is a prerequisite for young people to establish themselves. I do not think – and I do not understand – that the need for labour would be increased if the workers are easier to get rid of, as the previous government apparently thought. I also welcome the more active industrial policy of the new government. This has already produced concrete results for employees in the ferry companies and in some breweries, among others. in Arendal, where 160 brewers would have lost their jobs if it had not been a government change. High employment and a healthy working life are good welfare policies, both for Norway and for the people living here. The experience of contributing and creating is important for individual self-esteem and self-esteem. Therefore, work for everyone will continue to be a job no. 1 for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1151	A few days after the Soria Moria declaration was presented and it became known that the Government would continue the net pay system for seafarers, the Company Color Line presented its future plans: Color Line stays in Norway. The shipping company invests DKK 7 billion in a completely new ferry concept that is likely to revolutionise ferry traffic between Norway and the rest of the world. I also note that the company Fjord Line has decided to stay in Norway, as a direct consequence of our policy. This is a response to charges. So the net pay scheme is a condition for shipping companies' investment in Norway. It is simply a matter of giving one of our most competitive and resilient industries a level playing field with other countries. So to say all the leading shipping nations in Western Europe have similar arrangements for their seafarers. Without stable and competitive framework conditions – and so net pay is a key element here – both Fjord Line and Color Line would be out of the flag, with the result that important Norwegian jobs both at sea and on land had disappeared. 1,500 of these jobs are in my home state of Westfold. Without a government shift, without a new direction in maritime policy, the employees of our maritime industries had met a sad Christmas. A little depending on how you calculate, our maritime industries have about 75,000 employees. This is the supplier industry and service activities with a total value creation of NOK 60 billion. Our knowledge and competence in this area is – and still must be – one of our comparative advantages. And I have difficulty imagining maritime industries without Norwegian shipping companies and without Norwegian seafarers! I am therefore pleased that the net pay system will be extended to competitive ships in the NOR register from 1 July next year. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee on Finance has provisionally cleared up what could have been an accident at work on this occasion, asking the Government to reconsider the taxation of the seafarer's rent supplement, and then in the context of the revised national budget for spring. The next year’s government budget also increases the appropriations for maritime research and development. It's in itself an expression of the faith of the future. And then I show almost in a note to the evening post notice the other day, where it appears that Norwegian shipping companies are now building ships for 75 billion kroner, and most of it in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1164	First, a comment to the representative, Lund Bergo, who has the mercy of rudeness regarding our Document No. Proposals for eight on the customs frontier for online commerce. I refer to what the red-greens said before the election: A tax spokesman in the Workers' Party Svein Roald Hansen said to Dagbladet that the current 200-kroner limit is too low, and that the party would propose an increase of the customs limit to NOK 1 000 if they came in position. The member of the Financial Committee, Morten Lund, said to Dagbladet that today’s limit is meaningless, among other things. because of the increased paperwork at such a low limit. He suggested that he felt that the proposed limit of DKK 1 000 could seem reasonable. Financial adviser in SV, Bernt Sverre Mehammer, said that they were positive to increase the amount limit, but would not figure out how positive they were. So much for the election vows. But now the election is over, and the votes are collected. Several government party representatives today complained that growth in the public sector has been lower than growth in the private sector. The conclusion of these then is that now it's the public turn to grow, so that you can recover the lost. Not least the FI spokesperson, Heikki Holmås, focused on this in his statement. I don't know which schools teach their students such self-contradictory economic theories, but they're definitely not suitable for discussing the state budget. The whole point of strong growth in the private sector is that the need for growth in the public sector is being reduced. The more people involved in value-creating work in the private sector, the more people will be net contributors to public budgets. The more industries, businesses and individuals that make themselves independent of public support schemes, subsidies and transfers, the more public welfare will allow us to distribute to those who really need it. In other words, a private growing economy eliminates the need for and extent of some public welfare benefits and reduces public sector growth. Claiming that growth rates in the public and private sectors should be parallel in size is evidence of a total lack of knowledge of macroeconomic contexts. Every $12 in the draft state budget is an oil crown, the Minister of Finance said when she presented the government's additional proposition on 10 November. Those of us who have a slightly bigger problem than the Minister of Finance seeing the difference of a crown generated in the petroleum sector and a crown generated let's say in the furniture industry, wonder what relevance such a statement has. When we contact the Ministry of Finance, we are informed that it is calculated in this way because oil and gas are non-renewable resources. Yes, but what about all the commercial activities that have come as a consequence of the oil and gas deposits? Should not such activities also be included in this calculation? After all, when the oil and gas are gone, the need for a great deal of the supply industry disappears, and not least the need for related services in banking and insurance. The restaurant industry will also have a downturn, the number of nights spent in hotels will fall. Who's going to pay the bill when Stavanger people are going to cut each other's hair? Yes, almost any activity will experience a decline as a result of a finished petroleum activity. But such economic relations obviously do not appeal to the bureaucrats of the Ministry of Finance. The day on which the petroleum activity ceases to exist and the commercial activities that are subject to competition have been flagged out [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1190	The President will ask the representatives to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1193	The government's budget provides a new impetus for the development of society in this country. This budget focuses more on the main tasks: kindergarten and school, work and culture, health and care for the elderly. That's what we promised before the elections. That's what's in the Soria Moria agreement. We stop those parts of the Working Environment Act that open up more temporary employment and more overtime, and the unemployed get back the holiday money that the Bondevik government and the Progress Party took from them. The main change in the budget is the allocation of the municipalities. Almost NOK 4 billion more than Bondevik II proposed. There is a good start to the escalation of the revenues of the municipalities that have been notified. The municipal politicians are cheering – from all parties. Now they can finally start improving the offers to the inhabitants instead of looking for new cuts. It also gives satisfied residents, and it shows that we deliver. So to the defense. The government maintains the defence budget at the level of Bondevik II. It is still a strong commitment to defence. However, Stoltenberg II has made a significant re-priority within the budget to strengthen the northern regions, and to strengthen efforts in UN operations in Africa and Afghanistan. The government sees the northern areas as Norway's main strategic field of activity in the coming years. That means that we strengthen the presence and ability of the Defence Force to uphold sovereignty in the north. More money for the Coast Guard and more money for the Orion planes. The presence of the defence in North Norway shall be maintained at a high level. Coastal preparedness shall be given higher priority than today and the role of the defence in environmental monitoring, resource control, preparedness and maritime rescue operations shall be strengthened. We have seen this in the last few weeks – where the Coast Guard has brought in several ships engaged in illegal fishing in the Svalbard zone. That's what we have to prevent. It is also necessary to implement measures to improve financial management in defence. The economic environment of the economies of scale must and must be maintained. The use of external consultants must be reviewed and kept to a restrictive level. It is commendable that the Minister of Defence has already set up an external investigation committee to look at the use of consulting services in Defence. This is a good day for the many, for most people, who will get better in 2006 after we have got a new government and a new course for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1208	However, with the risk of becoming guilty of using the script for one of the other red-greens, I would say that this budget is showing a new political direction. It's a course with justice and community in focus, and it's a course where we see the soundness of politics – that everything is related to everything. When we spend 5.7 billion dollars on the municipal economy, this is more money for kindergarten, school and the elderly. As the representative of Hagebakken, it said instead: This cottage gets the municipalities a new spring. In my home municipality, Høyanger, the extra licenses made it possible for us to open Kyrkjebø Sickeheim with 24 new places – 24 new places! It will be so much easier to get a sick home place, it will be safer for the family and there will be more jobs. Yes, it's about security in everyday life, that we're sure that our kids get good enough babysitting, that there's enough teachers in school, and that her grandmother gets a safe and good old age, and that we live in a safe and good society. When the plural government increases the rights of the police by $87 million. kr, that means that we can still have a strong and close police force in our communities across the country. The availability of adequate resources by the police is also a means of prioritizing the important crime prevention work. Strengthening the community economy means more money for prevention, more teachers in classrooms, more kindergartens and a leisure offer to all. It is precisely kindergarten, the teachers and the local loner who know the local environment and society best and who can see who can fall out early and thus do something about their life situation. We know that strengthening well-being and leading a holistic policy for more community is helping to remove many starting blocks for a criminal career. The new change of course in Norwegian policy has important implications for local communities throughout the country. This is about us investing more in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1229	More to the municipalities. The idea is good, and that thought shares the party of progress with the government. But it's important that it goes to the elderly and school. It's important that it goes to those who need it in the municipalities. The government says 30 pst. of the free resources shall be used for school and that 40 pst. Of the free resources to care for the elderly, but when we read the paper, we see that the free resources transferred by the Government to the municipalities will not reach those to be reached — the elderly and the school — and reach 60 pst. By the municipalities they say they will pay off debts, something is not right. In my view, the municipalities on the Robek list now have to pay off debts before they can dispose of the free revenues. We also see that the municipalities are now cleaning up dust from old cultural Husband plans, old town hall plans, and I read that at Kongsberg they are also choosing to increase the rapporteur's salary by 17 p.m. Is this what these priorities the Government believes are right, and is this what the municipalities want to use badly needed funds for? Is it called the strengthening of local democracy? With the budget of the Progress Party, it can really be guaranteed that money goes to the elderly and school rather than to cultural houses, town halls and high remunerations for rapporteurs, or to pay off debts. SEK 5.8 billion in free money – what's in it? This means that the municipalities can dispose of the funds freely, but now I have understood – and I believe that Kommune-Norge will also discover it – that inside these so-called free resources there are actually bonds. And if I know the government right, it's been creative enough to bake more into these so-called free resources. Here there is also a church, and there are transfers to political parties. What is more in these so-called free means? The Progress Party guarantees schools and the elderly with its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1242	The red-green government has great ambitions for culture and for the voluntary sector. This is confirmed in the Soria Moria Declaration, and we in the Center Party are very pleased that the Government is now following this up with increased promises on the cultural budget. That's why next year we can start the escalation of cultural and voluntary policy that we promise our voters in the election campaign. By voluntary work, people are activated into meaningful and socially beneficial activities. Voluntary organisations also make important financial contributions to society through service production and extensive unpaid efforts. Especially happy is the government's special effort to ensure that children and young people have a good leisure experience. In the government's proposal for changes to the state budget, we have increased the proceeds to activities for children and young people through the Free Fund scheme of 15 million. kr. The last government has for years cut these permits, and finally they proposed to remove them entirely from the state budget. Now that trend has turned around. Free funds shall not, in future, be dependent on the Norwegian Typing surplus, but shall be prioritised as an important mechanism to strengthen the voluntary activity of children and young people. In addition, there is support for the purchase of instruments for the Corps and for the promotion of youth culture. The centre party wants it to flourish in cultural and organisational life throughout this country. We also know that when the municipalities get more money, it becomes easier to prioritize culture locally. With a commitment to culture, human beings get more to live for, not just to live off. Culture and volunteering are fine words, but we'll remember that behind these words lies the experience old Alma soon gets when the children's choir visits her in the old house and sing Christmas suns for her. There are the experiences that the mini-putter has for the first time overjoyed to play football, and the experience that 15-year-olds have at the youth club when they are sitting and ‘jamming’ and find out that they are going to start a band. Culture is a good movie, it's music that we get goosebumps out of, it's a dramatic play, and of course it's a lot, much more. Unlike the outgoing government, the new government has promised a boost for culture and voluntary work. Now we're on. This is gonna be fun.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1257	First, a little visit to the Progress Party, which obviously cannot entirely decide whether they want more money for the municipalities or not more money for the municipalities. Those are completely different messages from them. Perhaps the most alarming thing is that they do not understand that increased resources for the municipalities were going to hit the Progress Party in the heart, because I have seen that they are concerned with care for the elderly. It is precisely because the municipalities do not have enough money, that there are now cows to get home help, that it is cut in the home help service, and that there are cows to fit in the hospital home. That's why it doesn't make sense to talk about freedom of choice for the elderly before we have enough money in place to realize this. We have been fighting for this every year, and therefore we are proud and happy and relieved that we have got this in place now, and that we have also said that we should step this up over several years. This is a value question. It's a value question whether we want to spend the money on these things or whether you want to spend them on increasing private wealth for those who already have enough. And in that election, we disagree with the Advancement Party. Perhaps the greatest ethical, welfare and economic challenges we have in society today are that some are poor and are out of work, and that working life is so tough that there are fewer and fewer who are able to cope with retirement. A lot of them are women, and a lot of them choose to go into position and take it on their own economic coat. We actually have to do something about this. We have to do something about working life, so that you can actually stand there at retirement and have a job that makes it possible. That is why we are now making these changes to the Working Environment Act. We have to go on with that. We also need to look at public sector migration in such a way that it does not create unnecessary exclusion, because it has now done so. We have to turn that around. We have to get another ideology into this. So the 'New Public Management' ideology doesn't work if we want people to work at retirement. We need to put in place a much more active policy, so that people can actually come back to work when they, for example. has had a disability. There is a lot to it today, and this government has a high ambition to get it done. Then we have to go through the whole system, so that we can put in place a interconnected tool, from the health care system to what's going to happen in Aetat, and what's going to happen in the municipal sector. Finally, the ethical challenge is that there are people who are so poor that they don't have their heads over the water, and they don't see light in the tunnel. So we have to raise them so that they can also participate in the welfare. Because there's someone who's never going to be able to point to the state budget and say, I'm going to add. Then it's only political ethics, morals and values that can determine whether we can manage to lift them up together with others, when everyone gets it much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1268	The previous government had high ambitions for increased competence and value creation. Key instruments to achieve this were improving the quality of education at all stages and not least focusing on research. This characterises the budget submitted by the Bondevik Government. On this basis, there is reason to stress how unfortunate it is that the new government does not seem to have the same high ambitions. This is expressed in several ways through a dramatically lower reserve for the Research Fund, the reversal of the proposal for a mandatory foreign language in secondary school and, not least, the painful cut in transfers to a number of independent schools. Those who might notice this most are the private colleges, where the government has made arbitrary cuts in the basic grant. On direct questions, the Council of State responds to policy considerations. These cuts are also unevenly distributed and seem random. The Media School Gimlekollen gets the biggest cut of 12 pst., Lovisenberg diaconic college gets 5 pst. And 1 pst. Some factual reasons for the different size of the cuts in the basic grant have not been provided either. What is also a reality, and which underlines how incomprehensible this policy is, is that the private higher education institutions cover a large part of the national educational needs of vital subjects such as health and social sciences, teacher and pre-school teacher education. One of the areas of education which, in the coming years, will have a significant under-cover is pre-school teacher training. The main reason for this is that very many pre-school teachers go to school, and not least the big daycare effort. ECON Analysis figures show that 3 000 more pre-school teachers are needed in the context of nursery schooling, but there is a lack of coherence between bet and budget. Against this background, it is both illogical and incomprehensible that one of the oldest and most important educational institutions for pre-school teachers in Norway, namely Queen Maud's Memory in Trondheim, is subject to a cut in the basic grant of more than 1 million. kr. There is no concealment that this cut will have major consequences for the offer made by the school. Which signal does this give? Tell me, don't you really use pre-school teachers who are not educated at a public owned institution? I take in the name of justice that the new government has proposed to increase the capacity of pre-school teacher training in the country by 80 study places to improve recruitment. But what does it mean in these times? All schools need to think long-term in their efforts. It also applies to private colleges. Now there is uncertainty. There is reason to ask what place private colleges should have in government policy. Does the Government at all count the private higher education institutions in the overall policy of higher education? I hope that the Government will take this seriously and take a different approach — and have higher ambitions in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1277	I found it interesting to note the effect of increasing taxes on those with the highest incomes. The previous right-dominated government lowered taxes by billions of dollars. Those with income of 1 million. DKK received NOK 20 000 in tax vouchers. Even so, ordinary people select little or nothing for these taxes. Those who had only NOK 100000 in income actually received an increase in taxes of NOK 1500. The majority government adds to a tax system in which those who are low pay and those who have average income are mainly required to pay the same tax or less tax next year compared to 2005. That's just the 10 pst. The richest who get tax increases, but still the taxes are greatly increased, because the effect of increasing the tax for the richest is as large as he is. To put it another way: the previous government lowered the taxes for the richest and thus contributed to less fair distribution, while at the same time they got less money to spend on well-being. The Plural Government increases the taxes on the 10 pst. The wealthiest and thus contribute to a fairer distribution, while getting more money to spend on well-being. Thus, the budget proposal is not just a gain in terms of a fairer distribution policy; the budget proposal gives us a double gain: the effect of increasing taxes on the wealthiest amount of money in society is so great that at the same time we get several billion more dollars to spend on welfare. In this way, we can increase the fees for municipalities by DKK 3.8 billion compared to the Bondevik II government proposed, so that we can facilitate a better school and a safer old age than we would otherwise have planned. We can increase the rights of healthcare companies by 500 million. kr, so that there is more money for patient care in hospitals. Next year, 20,000 more people can receive patient treatment in Norway than the previous government provided. We could add 400 million. more than the previous government of targeted action against poverty. Ninety of these million people are going to boost their care. And we can spend 50 million. SEK to reduce the size of ownership stake 2 by NOK 1000 in order to provide better protection for those in need of health care. The change in course is clear. By increasing the tax on capital while at the same time lowering the tax on income, we ensure that the tax increase so to speak only frames the highest wage. At the same time, we increase the revenue side of the state budget. Thus, the budget provides a basis for three things at once — almost like a children’s egg: more well-being, a fairer distribution policy and a new and clear situation with clear priorities in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1294	I would like to add some comments to some of the proposals made by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the field of culture. Now it's like the government has had a lot of money to spend on culture, and that's how you might have figured it would have been done for the most part. And very much, there have been priceless and good additions, but there are also some gaps in this context. First of all, we have noticed that the area called ABM, i.e. archives, libraries and museums, has not received very large increases in relation to the expectations – and I would say legitimate expectations – this field has. Since the processing of the ABM message for approx. Five years ago there have been great expectations, and it has been difficult to live up to them. I notice that you have not been able to carry it on, despite the fact that the parties that are now ruling are also obliged in this field. The other area concerns a small matter in and separately: Norwegian Amateur Theatre Council. There has been a lot of focus on this organisation, so that it would translate its award criteria internally. We've all signaled that they should, and that they should be rewarded for it. Now they've done the job, and they didn't get any reward. We should also come back to that. But the most important thing I want to point out is a proposal that we have to create a post that is about building skills in the field of culture. It includes first of all housework, folk music, folk dance. This is the only field – at least in the case of housework and crafts and small crafts – where skills are carried through tradition. It is carried from exercise to exercise. We no longer have boarding schools, we no longer have formal competence in these areas. And what we've seen is that adult education funds have been cut down year after year. Many might have hoped that with the new government parties there would be a solid addition to adult education. It didn't. So in that piece, we're just as good, or just as bad, all of us. It's a pretty serious situation that we should be doing something about. And I think one should seriously consider looking at the whole system, lifting the things that are culturally related, into the sphere of the Ministry of Culture, and perhaps also spearheading those that are then left behind in education. This is, of course, the government's privilege to decide, but I think it's important to look at it, because the things that are culturally related, of course, lose in any discussion where there are the competent – i.e. educational – considerations that prevail.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1313	Jan Tore Sanner has asked for the word out of the way to promote a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1316	On behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, I take up proposal No. 42, as amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1321	Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1324	I have noticed the debate here today. I thought I would say that I think that the Progress Party deserves to be taken seriously as the country's second largest party. But then they have to bear to be taken seriously as well. That's what I'm always asking about the Progress Party, and that's how they manage to get away with the claim that they're a party for the most people, when they've not only been on all the battle taxes of the Bondevik government, which undoubtedly has given the most to those who've ever had the most, but in addition to their own budget proposal, they're worth $5 million. kr in taxes on wealth for each of the 100 richest. Why can't they just say what it is: they want the difference between rich and poor here in the country to increase. And the budget they have presented shows exactly that. And so the development aid: every time Per Sandberg has been on the pulpit, he's talked about how important it is to help the refugees where they are, instead of accepting them in Norway. How does he and the Progress Party manage to get away with it when, in the countries and areas of conflict from which the refugees come, more than DKK 9.2 billion are cut in development aid? Why can't the Progress Party just admit it: they're not committed to showing international solidarity. They think it's best that people stay in the conflict areas they come from, so we in Norway don't have to deal with both the world around us and our brothers and sisters who live there. How can the Progress Party hope to be taken seriously in its transport policy, when, in turn, they believe that all tolls of DKr 13 billion will be removed, without adding five flat ears of oil money to the budget to get them to? Why can't the Progress Party admit that they like to pay the tolls one day every four years, as they do every election fight, but in reality they believe that the drivers for the rest of the year have to pay the tolls themselves, just as they do here with the City Council power in Oslo. The Progress Party has a budget where they burn $30 billion in tax bills in addition to the $13 billion in tolls. These are huge treasures. That's removing 6.5 pst. of the entire State budget. It is to burn to – or to ‘burn’, as it would be called if it was a car – it is to set the cruise control at 200 km/h and lock the steering wheel – in the direction of the crash. I remember the 1980s and the crack that came then, after we tried the recipe of the Progress Party in Norway, in Margaret Thatcher's England, in Reagan and Bush's USA. I still have the pleasure of hearing a single progress party come up with a single country where it has been better when they have used the recipe of the Progress Party with difficult tax reliefs to the richest. The draft budget of the Progress Party shows that it is not for the people most, but most for the rich, and it clearly shows to everyone that the party sews together its economic policy into a bubble where the members of the Progress Party can sit completely unaffected by how the world’s economy actually works.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1333	From the beginning of this meeting, with Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, and to the end Sverre Myrli, it has hailed with invitations for closer cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. So now I'm going to take this seriously and bring a challenge to the government parties. We are now discussing the budgets of the technical committees. If the words we have heard today are to be followed by action, then during this day the Christian People's Party speakers have challenged the parties of government in a number of areas where we want to see a change in the budget submitted. If the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are serious about the fact that several of the representatives have joined us, we expect the actions to come in the respective professional committees. Swearing Myrli had met many solid, terrestrial KrFs – he was convinced that the Christian People's Party did not understand its own best. But now, in fact, when we have addressed different areas that mean a lot not only to the Christian People's Party but, of course, most of them, and which are affected by this government's budget proposal, we have been told that unfortunately it was not possible to prioritize it within the framework – a framework which has thus been increased by this government by several billion dollars. If the representatives of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are in doubt about what changes we would like to see in the respective trade committees, we are happy to be at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1344	The regulatory time for the evening meeting is over, but the President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map is finalised and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1347	Several speakers today have talked about who are winners, and who is losing, with the new policy that we are now beginning to see a little sloppy. I think I'll conclude, at least so far, that the really big loser is the future well-being in Norway, it's the future ability to create renewal, create income, to ensure Norwegian well-being. The government has responded to a lot of the structural proposals that the previous government came up with and agreed to in Stortinget. I can cite an example from the transport sector. There we got multiple numbers in the previous period to go in and launch the Gjøvik track in the NSB. The result was, as most people know, 30 pst. multiple squares, 10 pst. lower price and better material deployment. What does the new government say? The new government will stop further development of that competition. So here's the ideology that put an end to something that would give a lot of people a better deal. The government and the majority also say that they will raise the limits of public supply, which will prevent many small businesses from participating in competition, which could stimulate camaraderie and close contacts that are unhealthy for the inhabitants and for the business community. There is also, as the majority have been in today, a pretty big failure in the toolbox, in the tools that are needed to create innovation, create new businesses, create income that can drive well-being when the oil age ebbs out every now and then. It's been talking about the depreciation rates, which are cut by $1.6 billion compared to what the Center-Right government proposed in its time. Machine investment is still to be depreciated by 20 pst., not 25 pst., as we suggested. And here are serious cuts in very many of the areas that were supposed to stimulate businesses and industries for innovation and innovation. I'm thinking about travel life, about Innovation Norway, here is a hundred millionaire class cut in relation to what the recent government came with. There's probably a lot of good things the money that's extra can be spent on, but it's future and future well-being that has to pay for what's happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1356	We often hear that there is no difference between the political parties in this country. These claims have been clearly documented and refuted through the financial situation and through this debate. We will strengthen the community and establish good welfare arrangements for most people rather than provide large tax havens. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party are based on important values. When we now develop new policies in the field of education and education, our values and the ideal of equality and solidarity have led to a recognition that there are just as many opportunities to achieve challenges that are the most important basis for a solidarity society. This is exactly where we can help to smooth out people with different social and cultural backgrounds. And in a society where knowledge and competence are becoming increasingly important, and thus also for business, yes, this is all at the heart of an expedient democratization in our country. If we are to succeed and have the capacity for innovation and innovation in the business world, challenge and research are of crucial importance. It's important to create a broad commitment to developing business in Norway. Although Norway is a good country to live in, we should be even better. We have to create values and then distribute them fairly. Value creation and production are a prerequisite for a good school, for good kindergartens for everyone and a worthy old age. All the studies show that the countries that are good at distributing are also good at creating values. But this doesn't come of itself. Norway is a commodity and industrial community. But we neither want nor can compete with countries where there are low wages and poorly developed welfare arrangements for most people. Our competitiveness lies above all in having a knowledgeable people. In order to fulfill our vision, we need to move away from political inaction and instead take action in business policy. Such grips are our government in the process of taking. We're about to fill up our toolbox. We have no faith in business neutrality and inaction. Therefore, it is important to be active and to participate in creating a good framework for the development of future business. With a multi-annual government, Norwegian businesses will experience a stable economic environment and a higher priority than they have experienced in the last four years. A plural government will provide secure, long-term, and prudent frames. The Nordic model of society has contributed to the Nordic countries being among the most competitive in the world. We shall build on this. We shall maintain and strengthen the welfare state in the future. It is then crucial to establish strong and good cooperation between businesses, the population and the research community.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1371	The State budget is clearly characterised by the fact that we have a new political majority in Norwegian policy – a majority that is committed to well-being and community, a majority that is committed to what is important for ordinary people. The new government is not just concerned with a stronger commitment to community, justice and well-being here at home. The fight against poverty and the fight for development, democracy and human rights is our biggest global challenge and an important task for the new government. That is precisely why we need to strengthen Norway's efforts to combat poverty, for a fairer distribution and for a more democratic world order. We must work for a stronger UN, and we must strengthen Norway's peace efforts. Every year, three million children die of diseases that can be prevented by a single vaccine. Common diseases that our children are vaccinated against take millions of lives in the poor part of the world. The GAVI Global Vaccine Programme needs a stronger effort from the rich world country to be able to vaccine more children. Two drops in your mouth or a stick in your arm, and a life is saved. Child mortality goes down, and fewer women die in childbirth. It costs less than NOK 200 to vaccinate a child for life. Vaccination of children is an important, efficient and inexpensive form of assistance. It is a direct investment in the most important resource available to these countries – it is a direct investment in children, in the future. The previous Labour Party government made Norway one of the most senior donors of the Vaksine Foundation. For the new government, a new offensive and a strengthened commitment to the Vaksine Fund are also important. The fight against international poverty is an important struggle for the new government. It's a fight we're going to take with us a lot of different instruments. One of these instruments is precisely the vaccination of children. The world has the vaccines, the world has the money, and the world has the knowledge. It just lacks the will of the world. I am therefore very pleased that the Government is now increasing Norway’s contribution to international vaccine programmes by 200 million. kr on next year's budget. Because in Norway we have the knowledge, we have the money, and the new government has the will and the muscles to invest in the most important resource in the fight against global poverty, namely children's health.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1388	I registered that the representative Heikki Holmås from SV would take the Advance Party seriously, and we are absolutely looking forward to him doing so in the future. But there's something going on over it when the representative Heikki Holmås allegedly is going to take us seriously and he couldn't have taken very much into consideration what is the Progress Party's alternative state budget, which has been presented through the budgetary settings. Heikki Holmås asks how we intend to pay off and delete the toll due to the country's toll missions of NOK 13 billion. It is such that a Document No was introduced for a short time back in this Chamber. Eight proposals to be examined and taken into consideration later in this Chamber, where the Progress Party proposes to pay off this debt in exactly the same way as the majority of some years ago chose to cancel the debt of the Gardermoban. There can be no difference in eradicating the debt of the extension of the Gardermoban and eradicating the debt of the country's toll missions. Aid and aid policy: I note that in the budget that the majority will adopt later today, there are more cuts in direct bilateral aid. I and the Progress Party interpret this as a signal from the new government that you don't see that the direct bilateral aid might give you the effects you actually wanted. The Party of Advancement is a supporter of proper emergency aid for disaster areas. We were sitting here a few weeks ago supporting large transfers to the areas hit by earthquakes in Pakistan and India. It is important that Norway, as a nation, contributes to the kind of crises, the kind of disasters, and that is what we want with our policies. If you had also read our budget carefully, you would see that in several areas we want to spend considerable resources on it. But we have no faith in the direct bilateral aid in many areas, which in many countries goes straight into the pockets of Greek dictators who make their own people starve to death. This is not a policy supported by the Progress Party. So let me take a visit to the property tax. In the proposals of the Progress Party, we will remove the entire wealth tax from 1 January 2006. That means, of course, that if you are rich or poor, all the categories that pay taxes on wealth today will not pay taxes on wealth. That means, of course, that if you're rich, in SV's terminology, yes, you'll drop property taxes. But that also means that if you're a minimum pensioner with a paid house and you're struggling to get the ends to meet, you don't have to pay taxes on wealth, even if you have savings in terms of, for example, money. housing. It's a good and a social profile that the new government doesn't fulfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1402	In the reply after my post earlier today, I was injured to use too low figures on the level of cash support in the draft budget for next year. The right thing is 300 kroner above the level in summer 2003, before Bondevik II increases cash support, among other things. at the cost of the infant supplement. I was injured to say «200 kroner below», and I do not want that standing. Then I have to say, for the Central Party, it's important that people recognize us after the election of what we said before the election. 5.7 billion dollars for municipalities is in place, the first step of the Cultural Lift is the same. In industry, transport and distribution, we are on the right track. Today's debate has shown that despite the fact that we are three different government parties, we are on the same team, and we have high ambitions. The debate has also shown a split opposition, with a progress party taking a given with the Right, which stands for example. halving the agricultural support and cutting the aid budget of DKK 9 billion. The debate has also shown that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are united in this setting, but now they are going to have their own profiles. We look forward with joy and excitement to the important work that is now to be done in government and expansion and abroad. People shall mark an increased commitment to business and housing throughout the country, to the fight against poverty, to a good school and a worthy care.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1413	As the second largest party of the Storting, it is important that the Progress Party be taken seriously. The party of progress should be the party of people most, the party of progress should be the party that has a reassuring social face. As I have said before, too many income trends are most important for people to see to what extent a person prioritizes social relationships. Earlier in the debate, I have made two quotations from the Progress Party in the financial situation. The progress party says on page 22 that one is in favour of a tax system that is far flat than what we have today. Is it the case that the voters of the Progress Party agree that we in Norway should go away from the principle of taxation according to our ability, that we should go away from the progressive tax system and introduce what is the tax system of the right: reducing income taxes and increasing taxation on consumption, increasing taxation through VAT, for example? It is doubtful whether the Progress Party has itself an uproar among its own voters when it comes to evading a tax principle according to its ability. Point 2: On page 35 of the vote, it is stated that the Progress Party must go in order to ‘change labour market regulation laws so that wages are determined individually or at the workplace of the individual’. [[...]] Thus, one will fundamentally change the power relationship between the employee and the employer, a power relationship that is central to ensuring a balance in the interests of the different groups, one will go a major attack on nationwide tariff agreements that are crucial to ensuring an overall level of income development in society. Both international and historical experience shows that such a system of generation of income leads to enormous differences in disposable income between full-time workers. Why is it important for the Progress Party to facilitate such development? Why is it so important, when you have the slogan 'Most People', when people lose most to the degrees of such a social view? It would have been liberating if the Progress Party could start telling people what is the party's real priority, namely greater income differences between people. That's the consequence of a nutshell.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1422	The President will confess that he is struggling to keep the President of the Advancement Party away from the debate, but so far it has been well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1425	We have been through a long day's debate, which has led to some clarifications in the political change of word. We have been able to clarify a significant difference between the tax arrangements that will apply for 2006, compared to the 2005 tax regime. One person with two million. kr in gross income, and with the wealth and dividend common to this income group, NOK 50000 was taxed by the Bondevik Government for the current year. The government of Stoltenberg adds a tax boost for the next year of NOK 35000. We've discovered the hole that's been in Right's rhetoric about tax havens for those with low incomes, and we've been told that they have $5 million. NOK in income would be paid NOK 72 000 less in taxes on the arrangements of the Bondevik government than they would get with the arrangements of the Stoltenberg government, while we will acknowledge that they would have received NOK 150000 in income with 1 more in taxes each day. It's this crown that the Right and, unfortunately, the Christian People's Party also calls social profile. I asked for the word of a manifest misunderstanding instead after hearing the Right Leader talk about the ghosts associated with the increased interest rate at the financial arrangement of the Government, a ghost that only the Right sees. On the contrary, thorough analyses have been carried out of the economic structure that has determined that the arrangement of the Stoltenberg government, like the one of the Bondevik government, will have a neutral effect on the economy, and there is therefore no reason to argue that it will contribute to increased pressure in the economy. We have had a debate where there is still an increasing distance between the parties on the civil side. Not least, we have had a debate in which the Progress Party has made a strong settlement with the Right. That's the picture that's left after this debate. I also recall the instability, the turmoil and crises that have marked the budgetary procedures in recent years. We have seen a completely different budgetary procedure relating to this year's budget debate, a budgetary procedure in which there is a clear majority. It is a new political situation, where a majority is united on a clear political profile that is different from the profile of the outgoing government, a profile based on prioritising welfare rather than taxation, which contributes to a fairer distribution and contributes to a responsible economic policy. Not least, we have seen a thorough examination of the budget that results in a majority decision here in the Chamber today, and we have not seen the game and uncertainty that have marked the budgetary processes of previous years. It is a clear advantage for Norwegian democracy and for Norwegian economic governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1436	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1439	I take the floor to have two things said at the very bottom of the debate. One applies to all those who have made representations on the charges mentioned. So there's a clear ambition on the part of our government for a comprehensive review of the entire charging policy, both to know how it will work, for example in relation to the environment, what it does, and how it can work in a fair way. That's why we have rejected most of the proposals in the budget. Finally, I have to give Dagfinn Højbråten an introduction to the minimum deduction in relation to our social profile. Yes, we did not raise the upper limit as much as the previous government did. So it's like raising the ceiling gives a tax relief to everyone with income above the old minimum deduction, but not to those who have the lowest income. On the other hand, they serve to increase the percentage of the minimum deduction. So let's do that. One who has a salary of NOK 179 000 gets NOK 1500 in tax bills. That's two and a half times as much as one that has 400,000 kroner. If it's not a social profile, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1448	It's late in the evening, and I really don't know if you're going to get provoked by obvious internal consumption from the pulpit. There has been no further clarification on the tax profile of the Workers' Party and the Government, but there has been a total concealment by the Workers' Party of the consequences of their tax profile, especially in relation to what they said before the elections. It's possible that you can count on a lot of mean numbers, but that's the way you went to the choice, you haven't fulfilled it. I think it is good, because I think it is nice that we carry out the tax reform. But it is that those with the highest income get lowered the marginal tax. The same symbol was used in all debates last autumn, namely the symbol Reiten and Helge Lund – they get great tax relief from the government. Then you can pretend to have clarified something. You don't. The tax profiles have been largely obscured. So to the obvious misunderstanding that was attempted into the lineword shift. I have not spoken of ghosts, but there is no doubt that there has been an increase in expectations of increased interest rates since the government joined. That's what you read in the market. It is also said by the Bank of Norway. What you point to, and there are several economists who have pointed out, among other things. Erik Bruce in Nordea Markets, the Red-Green Government and Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen are the explanation, because the composition of politics is becoming more expansive, even if the rule of action is maintained. It is confirmed by the letters and the answers to questions addressed to the Right-wing Group in the context of the treatment of the financial situation. So you have to realize that the pressure is getting stronger. That's not the only reason we're going to get interest rises, but you're facing a situation where there's already getting pressure in parts of the economy, by increasing it further. The long-term challenge is for labour to move from the private sector to the public sector. It's crazy politics, but it has a consequence, and I think you should be honest sometimes and talk about that kind of consequences. I'm going to admit that for the lowest income groups there is an equally good profile on the part of the Government, but I don't understand why it's so incredibly important to tax low-paid full-time workers anymore. That's what you do. The group that is now at the very point of entry, above the old minimum income point, the health workers, the pre-school teachers, the groups that are in full employment, the women we would like to see worked a little bit longer, are the ones who actually experience less tax relief from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1461	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1464	Here, the representative Solberg repeats the misunderstanding she has been guilty of. So it's the case that there have been complete runs of the budget line provided by the Government, like what was done by the previous government. Just as the arrangement of the previous government would have been neutral in the economy, so in these analyses it says that this government's budget will have a neutral effect on the economy. So there is no evidence to claim that the budget line adopted today will contribute to a pressure on the economy to justify any effect on interest rates. So Erna Solberg talks again about symbol effects. But Erna Solberg has totally disregarded the fact that there was no increase in the property tax last autumn. There was no increase in dividend tax. It was a pure relief in the tax on wages that made a person with 2 million dollars. NOK in income received a tax return of NOK 50000. But this year there's an increase in property taxes. And this year, there's an increase in the tax on dividends. That means that the same person comes out with a tax boost of NOK 35000. That Erna Solberg does not take into account that there is a difference in the property tax between last year and this year, and does not take into account that there is a difference in the dividend tax between last year and this year, is questionable in itself, but it is a reality that has to be taken into account in order to study the distribution effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1471	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1479	We then go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1487	The President proposes that the Minister of Finance report at the Stockholm meeting on 14 October 2005 on the State and National Budget for 2006 and the presentation by the Minister of Finance of the Stortingen meeting on 10 November 2005 on changes to the St.prp. No 1 on the State budget shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e1497	Case No. 2 applies to the budget-inside. S. I. A total of 42 proposals have been put forward on this subject. Proposals Nos. 1–41 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 42 is distributed in the amended version. The proposals which have been put forward are as follows: the proposals No 1 and 42, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Drafts No. 2–41, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Progress There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–41, from the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e2071	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Council DecisionsFor the treatment of the 2006 State Budget by the Grand Duchy, the following framework for the allocation is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Stortinget on 2 November 2005 and supplemented on 15 November 2005: No.Name Kroner1State administration 10 607 131 0002Family and consumer 45 429 869 0003Culture 4 088 048 0004Foreign affairs 21 472 467 0005Justis 11 768 938 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing 9 118 430 0007Day money, etc. 21 561 500 0008defence 28 065 906 0009Industry 2 811 304 00010Fischery 364 420 00011Agriculture 12 443 428 00012Oil and energy -123 636 410 00013Environment 2 743 482 00014Constitutional institutions 1 241 188 00015Work and social 197 498 650 00016Health 98 968 282 00017Church, education and research 38 134 817 00018Company 20 235 225 00019Room grants etc. to the local government sector 49 933 892 00020Future expenditure and revenue 5 149 845 00021Export guarantees etc. -399 900 00022Financial administration, etc. 33 532 625 00023Taxes and charges -724 181 985 00024Distributions etc. -18 265 152 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to/from the State Petroleum Fund -251 314 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e2279	Proposal No. 42, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, the President will return. The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e2511	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e2524	The President will then bring up proposal No. 42, from the right, from the Christian people, and from the left. The reality of this proposal is implicit in proposal No. 1 from the same batches which have now been rejected. There is some doubt as to whether the proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left should be put to the vote, as it could be considered to affect the framework currently adopted and, consequently, would be contrary to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. However, the President will recommend voting on the proposal, but will propose, in order to avoid the precedent on a later occasion, that the Stortinget derogate from the relevant provision of paragraph 19 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 42, from the right, from the Christian people, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to return to the Stortinget in the context of the Revised National Budget 2006 with proposals to increase the Research and Innovation Fund, amounting to SEK 75 billion.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e2567	The matter concerns budget revenue. S. No 1st@item: inlistbox A total of 12 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1, 3, 5 and 7, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Drafts No. 2, 4, 6 and 8-12, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party for Progress In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 24 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Such a decision was taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposed minority proposals that are now available will not be put to the vote and will therefore lapse, because they are based on different framework amounts than those adopted. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1 to 8 in the position to be voted on and relating to the Framework Areas 19, 20, 23 and 24. Proposals Nos. 9-12 is independent of the frame, so these will be over. The President then first refers to voting on the framework-independent minority proposals. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-12, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e2621	We're going to vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, and we're going to start with the framework area 19. There are two minority proposals for this area. That is proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, and proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. As the President has explained, these proposals lapse in line with the provisions of paragraph 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e2847	There are also two minority proposals for Framework 20. That is proposal No. 3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, and proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, which is now falling away.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e2986	We have now reached Framework Area 23, and it is under this area that the Stortinget will adopt the tax and tax rules and their revenue for next year. Box area 23 is extensive, so we're going to have to add up over this. For Framework Area 23, minority proposals are available. 5, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left, and No. 6 from the Progress Party. These proposals are also obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e8946	Then there is still to be a vote over the frame area 24. There are also minority proposals here, and that is proposal No. 7, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, and proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. These proposals are obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e9453	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the amount of duty-free imports be raised from NOK 200 to NOK 1000 with effect from 1 January 2006 and that the amount limit be periodically adjusted in line with the consumer price index.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24-2.ana.ud1116e9506	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
