ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e72	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositor Leiv Blakset died on 22 May, 76 years old. Blakset was born on December 28, 1928, on Herøy, Northland, where his father was a clock and teacher. When Blakset was two years old, the family moved to Nordfjordeid. They moved on to Blakset in Stryn in 1946. After the real-school exam at Nordfjordeid in 1946 and the agronomic exam at Lessersunde Agrarian School in 1949, Blakset became a gardener on the genealogy garden at Blakset. He was a teacher next door and took education at Elverum Public School in 1966. As a teacher he served at several of the schools in Stryn Municipality and was a former headmaster at Blakset School. As a gardener, Blakset had a great interest in animal breeding, and over the years he had many animals at the exhibition, both horses and sheep. He was part of the governing body in Fjordhästen. Also fruit cultivation became one of his great interests. He was an active sportsman, especially in the long run and jump, but also in summer sports. Blakset's activity as a political trustee started when he was elected to the City Council of Innvik in 1955. He continued as a member of the local government when Innvik was incorporated into Stryn Municipality and was rapporteur from 1977 to 1983. He was a member of the County Council of Sogn and Fjordane from 1979 to 1985. In the period 1977 to 1985, Blakset met many times at Stortinget as the first representative of the Central Party in Sogn and Fjordane. He was elected to the Stortinget in 1985 and set for two periods. During its great period, Blakset was a member of the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee, the Defence Committee, the Consumer and Administrative Committee, the Municipal Committee and the Church and Education Committee. From the time of the church and education committee he spent a lot of work as a case rapporteur for the establishment of TV2 with headquarters in Bergen. During its Grand Prix, Blakset was President of Odelstinget, 1st and 2nd respectively. The bladder was working and persevering. With his cautious and unmistakable form, he raised confidence among colleagues and people he met. Blakset was a person with a broad field of interest who willingly assumed responsibility for social tasks both locally and in wider contexts. He was an avid local historian and was a guide for many tourist groups to interesting historical sites. He laid down a great deal of work in the preparation of the 100th anniversary and the travel of memorial stones over Peer Gald, the housekeeper's boy who emigrated to America. Although Blakset had many interests and was happy to travel, it was the hometown and the family that stood closest to his heart. He had unshakable faith in the rich values that lie in rural communities and local cultural heritage. He rejoiced over the living spirit of hard work and over the cohesion and community that exist in the rural community. And he rejoiced over the youth who moved back to the hometown and invested in a future there. We remember Live Blakset with respect and light peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e102	Two permit applications are available: from the representative of André Kåkkestad on leave of 9 and 10 June to attend meetings under the authority of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly of Venezia from the representative of Afshan Rafiq on maternity leave from 11 June onwards and from the spring session of the Stortinge On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Harald EspelundFor Oslo: Brit I. The President
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e135	Harald Espelund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e149	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e156	The aeroplane on-board with the Air Safety Authority has taken off from Oslo and is located in the airspace between Oslo and Bodø. The tower has already given a clear signal for landing. Also on the move are all parties of the Transport Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party. The propulsion party is the only party that does not want to move the Air Traffic Authority to Bodø. They want to explain for themselves their choice. It shall not be underestimated that many Oslo representatives fought hard against the relocation of the Air Safety Authority from Oslo. This rapporteur was one of them. But in 2003, the Stortinget joined the government's proposal to move. The decision, which indicated a three-year moving time, will, of course, be respected. That's the game rules of democracy. The majority are satisfied that the Government is committed to the decision on the transfer of the Air Safety Authority to Bodø. It's been turbulence along the way. Under the initial removal strategy of the Air Safety Authority, few wanted to move with supervision to Bodø. Recruitment of new employees has also not been easy. In a report, the Civil Aviation and Railway Commission stated that the Air Safety Authority had not functioned satisfactorily in all areas. The Ministry of Transport and Air Navigation were asked to draw up an action plan to strengthen areas that had not worked satisfactorily. In the debate on relocation, it is important to remember that air transport is a very safe form of transport. The majority assume that the oversight of air traffic continues to function satisfactorily, in order to maintain oversight with the air carriers and Avinor in order to ensure air safety at the top international level. The management of the Air Safety Authority has followed up an action plan to support the propulsion of the removal process. This has led to a new give in the work of localization to Bodø. A number of personnel-oriented actions based on financial incentives, training and recruitment of staff with an untraditional professional background have been crucial to the dynamics of the process. In the case of some jobs, there shall be a transitional phase of double staffing until adequate training and experience are provided to employees. The Air Safety Authority assumes that it may have 70–90 in place in Bodø during the autumn of 2005. Competence requirements equivalent to those of other European Aviation Supervisors shall continue to apply. We continue to want information in an appropriate way about the progress of the manning and moving process, and whether safety is affected by this. The close follow-up by the Ministry of Transport to the Action Plan of the Air Safety Authority, as shown in the attached correspondence, is exemplary. The removal costs, originally estimated at 116 million. kr, will increase by about 20 to 30 million. kr. Annual operating costs will roughly increase by between 10 and 20 million. after the proposals in this Communication. The majority understands that the removal costs and operating costs of the Air Safety Authority in Bodø will exceed the amounts previously used. During the annual budgetary procedures, the Storting will normally take the necessary decisions on follow-up, including the removal and operating costs of supervision. I repeat that throughout the process the majority assumes that the flight safety is controlling the schedule and the practical arrangements of the movement process. It is important that aviation oversight succeeds in employing key personnel in the aero-technical job categories. The competence of the international approval rules applicable to aviation oversight must be maintained. The majority take note of the fact that three helicopter inspectors are employed, the workplace being adapted to the individual. Flexibility is a prerequisite for a friction-free movement process. As Oslo's representative, I have fought against Oslo losing the Air Safety Authority, but not against Bodø's being elected once the dice have been thrown. When the Air Safety Authority now moves from Oslo, it is with a certain temperament, but with a warm heart, I would like to warmly congratulate Nordland and the housing companies on a new institution and exciting new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e186	It is now that we can agree that the transfer of the Air Safety Authority to Bodø had got into a wrong track. The background for moving the Air Safety Authority to Bodø was the desire to further develop the aviation environment in Bodø and strengthen the city as a regional centre. The Minister for Transport should be commended for intervening and getting the move process on the right track. At the same time, I will give tribute to the President-in-Office for a thorough handling of this matter. He himself has explained that in an excellent way. I understand, and I have a lot of understanding, that no one initially wants to move from where they have their home, where the children go to school, where the partner has his work, and where everyone has their social circle. That is why I understand that many employees have been deeply dissatisfied with the Stortinget decision to move the Air Safety Authority to Bodø. It's legitimate to oppose. It is then important that there is enthusiastic management that looks at the possibilities and facilitates the situation of all employees in order to succeed in moving after the decisions have been taken. That is why it is quite right that an instrument package has now been made available to make it more attractive to start working in Bodø. I hope it will hold, I'm reasonably sure of it. But it assumes that the Minister of Transport, together with today's Director, is continuously assessing whether the instruments currently in place are actually working. I don't think I take my mouth too full when I say that if it turns out it needs to be stronger, i.e. new, other instruments, the minister – regardless of who is Minister after the election – gets back to Stortinget with it. I think that here we find the core of the problems the removal process had for a very long time – a management that was little relocating and did not allow either to exploit the offers that Bodø municipality would give to those who moved, or other things. When the Minister for Transport got the resignation from the old director on the table on 1 February this year, this opened up to grips with the process in a completely different way, and get a completely different dialogue. It seems to me that the process is now on track. But we have to keep track of how the moving process evolves. The notification shall provide that, during the autumn of 2005, between 70 and 90 persons shall be in place in the new Centre for the Air Safety and Health at Bodø. It is good that it now opens up to use the resources provided by the military aviation environment. Without me being the leading expert on quality requirements and knowledge requirements for the Air Traffic Inspectorate's employees, I think it was very special how it was practiced for a long time, that military competence was not usable, as we perceived it. Norway shall have an aviation authority with a high level of international recognition. I expect that it is in everyone's interest that this removal case now finds its solution. We have received guarantees from the excellent rapporteur of the Labour Party in Bodø that it will not be in the municipality to find solutions. They will help the employees who choose to move to Bodø, so that they thrive there, and the whole family will feel Northern Norwegian hospitality. I'm sure they'll make it. I assume that the Storting will be continuously briefed on how things are going, and if there are problems, that the Minister – whoever it is after the election, as I have said before – will immediately come to Stortinget so that we can find solutions together. I must finally bring a heart attack. It's going to be a heart attack plus a little bit more. That goes to the representatives of the Progress Party. I will refer you to some of the things in the attitude of the Committee on Transport: ‘The members of the Committee of the Parties, Thore A. Nistad and Kenneth Svendsen, refer to their comments in the decision on the transfer of the Air Safety Authority from Oslo to Bodø, cf. [[2002-2003]] Inner. S. No 222 where these members opposed the move to Bodø." I refer to: ‘These members believe that many basic prerequisites for the move to Bodø have so far not been met and that the Minister for Transport is therefore – and I would like to stress: therefore – ‘brings the move back to the Stortinget for new political treatment. These members assume that all the costs of a reversal of the proposal are presented to the Stortinget. In this context, these members shall promote the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the air traffic control movement process to Bodø and to bring the issue of the transfer of the Air traffic control back to the Stortinget for retreatment as soon as possible.’» At the same time, you can’t travel around the Nordic states, and in Bodø, saying that you are in order for the Air Safety Authority to be moved to Bodø. It is clearly black on white that both the representative Kenneth Svendsen, Thore A. Nistad – and the Progress Party – oppose the transfer of the Air Safety Authority to Bodø. What you travel around and tell is a blank lie, as you've been against it. I think it's right that you can stand up and say you're against, but not handle it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e223	The President will be careful to use terms such as ‘ lie’ to the opinions of other representatives, as the representative Tor-Arne Stroem has now done. The President thinks it makes sense to try to find other and more parliamentary forms of expression for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e226	I must first repeat to the previous speaker that our spokesman for transport policy, Kenneth Svendsen, in this case has been released and will thus vote for moving to Bodø. He has also been released during the examination of this matter today, so it does not result in correctness, the representative Stroem here claimed. Moving the Air Safety Authority from Oslo to Bodø is a very demanding process of relocation. I think there's a general consensus about this, and there's a lot of talk that it didn't make any sense at all to start this project. Many of the assumptions and promises made prior to the original removal decision cannot be fulfilled today. We have now come into a situation where the Government will carry out the move at any cost and regardless of whether this provides optimal professional supervision – because it cannot be stuck under the chair that certain steps have been taken to achieve goals. I will first refer to the letter from the new director of aviation to the Department, dated 2 March of this year, which mentions the lowering of recruitment requirements: «Aeronautical oversight is now re-assessing requirements, combined with compensatory measures, where potential candidates will be involved after adaptation, competence or experience.» This cannot be interpreted in any other way than to have to intervene in order to fill all the positions, and that applicants with the training or experience they have been accustomed to have do not have enough. This is serious, very serious. And when you combine that quote with reading the letter from the Civil Aviation and Railway Commission, dated January 6th this year, you get insecure. I'll quote from that letter: ‘If continuous improvement of aviation safety remains an overall objective also for Norwegian aviation, which HSlab believes is both political and professional agreement, HSlab’s assessment is that LT per. at present not working properly — both in relation to major challenges related to the implementation of the removal decision and the increased supervisory focus required in times of extensive migration in Norwegian aviation.’;» Today, when the Progress Party is proposing to reverse, or rather to stop, the Air Traffic Control movement, it is not because we want to have a rematch at all costs, but because we are very professionally concerned, and because we do not feel confident that the process of moving now is giving us the best air traffic control. We record that all job vacancies are now in the process of being filled, but not without extensive intervention – economically and in relation to competence. But you can live with the economy, even though you're also going beyond the original assumptions. But entering into professional compromises in the recruitment of an air traffic controller is not just amazing, I would almost say it's shocking. I'll take another quote from that letter from the Hawaiian Commission: ‘More Western countries went through similar and very extensive changes a few years ago. Studies of such processes are interesting and instructive reading. It turns out that there is no significant increase in the number of accidents and serious incidents during the conversion process, but that some countries subsequently experienced a build-up over a few years of serious accidents that could be traced back to rationalisation and weak change management, as well as insufficient safety regulation and regulatory oversight.’ [[e.g. USA and Switzerland]] So there's not a negligible risk we're talking about here. Now we're not gonna spread fear. I know that everyone wants the best possible air traffic control. But here's the question of whether you shouldn't admit that enough is enough. We tried – it didn't work out. Let us drop the performance and acknowledge that this removal decision could not be carried out according to the assumptions at no cost economically and professionally. I will be allowed to record the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e258	The representative of Morten Höglund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e261	There is broad agreement in the Committee on the full support of the move process currently under way, and even give credit for the fine and good way in which this is being managed. The entire movement process has been re-given after the establishment of a new management of the Air Traffic Authority. It is safe to give full support to the completion of this process. It also gave the case rapporteur, Hans Gjeisar Kjästad, excellent information on this in his article. Like the representative Stroem, I am a little surprised that the Progress Party is still engaged in this fight against relocation, and even makes suggestions in this Chamber that we should re-examine the matter. The representative, Høglund, briefed on the reasons, and brought out the economics. Here's a 20-30 million. extra costs. Now the Progress Party has not been known to save and look at the crown in any context here in Stortinget. I guess they're the party in the Storing that wants to spend the most money, so you draw out that exact argument here, it seems strange. There is one aspect of the move process that has not been so much focused on and oriented about – I can’t see that it has been mentioned – namely that it has also been a prerequisite for building a new building in Bodø to the Air Safety Authority. So supervision is going to move into its own premises, and I think that's going to lay the foundation for good future operations. The fact that recruitment challenges will continue in the future should not be underestimated, so that supervision as such can be established in proper premises is very important for the future. I have therefore really taken the floor to ask the Council of State questions about how those plans are going, when you're going to get started. I record that in the case of other supervision that has moved, it has been taken early into account in building new buildings and establishing supervision in permanent premises. So my question goes to the Council of State: When are you going to start building a new building in Bodø?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e272	There is no doubt that the migration process as Norwegian aviation is in the process of being implemented. The Christian People's Party believes it was absolutely necessary to look at the organisation and staffing resources with new eyes. The conversion process shall proceed, but no one shall ever doubt that safety is a priority. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus between Storing and the Department that nothing is more important than ensuring and upgrading air safety. At the same time, it must be clear that the ongoing process of conversion is necessary and will continue, even if the pace is slowed down. The Christian People's Party is taking a tough course in the relocating process with the Air Safety Authority to Bodø. We are pleased with the change the matter has now taken. The movement has been decided by Stortinget and will be carried out. The aviation environment in Bodø is solid and is already responsible for a significant part of civil as well as military aviation in the country. Bodø's solid aviation environment welcomes the supervision. Moving has been a demanding process. Under the initial removal strategy of the Air Safety Authority, few wanted to move with supervision to Bodø. Recruitment of new employees has also not been easy. Following the withdrawal of the former supervisory director from his post on 1 February 2005, a new aviation director was appointed on a temporary basis. On 2 March, the current management of the Air Safety Authority presented a revised plan for the removal process, on behalf of the Ministry. This has led to a new give in the work of localization to Bodø. Now well qualified applicants are in line to get a job. Through a number of personnel-oriented actions based on financial incentives, training and recruitment of personnel with an untraditional professional background, the Air Safety Authority considers that 70–90 employees could be added during the autumn of 2005. The purpose of the supervision is to implement the transfer in full by 1 January 2007, in line with the decision of the Storting. Altered strategies for the order of published jobs, the possibility of recruiting applicants with military background, direct searches for current candidates, wages and social organisation have contributed to speeding up the process of moving. The Christian People’s Party continues to believe that the transfer of the Air Traffic Control to Bodø will be carried out in line with the previous Stortingen decision and that oversight will continue to function satisfactorily — throughout the process. The Christian People's Party shall at the same time assume that the flight safety is in control of the schedule and the practical arrangements of the movement process. It is important that aviation oversight succeeds in employing key personnel in the aeronautical position categories and that aviation oversight maintains the competence that is a prerequisite for the international approval rules applicable to aviation oversight. The progress party has been against the move process all the way, but it is amazing that they will now reverse a long-term process and demand the matter back to Stortinget. I see from the Nordic media that the representative Kenneth Svendsen adorns himself with the fact that he is freed from the party and can vote for, but it does not hide the fact that he has lost the case in his own party. The lack of rural policy of the Progress Party is very evident in this matter. So to the Workers' Party and SV, who vote against this move – because something else would have been impossible in front of a choice – but who, after strong pressure from LO in their national meetings, have programmed that they would not move out more government jobs from Oslogryta. We notice the red-green signal to District Norway: with the red-green it's over. They will protect key strikes against such abuses as the relocation of state workplaces. I feel sorry for the Center Party, which is going to be part of such a community.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e293	It is positive to note that a majority in the Committee is committed to the decision to move the Air Safety Authority to Bodø, as the Stortinget has previously agreed. The center party has always been positive for the move. We have believed that the move process would be successful. I register that it is now informed that Kenneth Svendsen from the Progress Party has been released in this matter. But then I wonder that he is behind the comments that the Progress Party has in the vote, because here it says both "Kenneth Svendsen" and "Thore A. Nistad", which are the members of the Progress Party of the Committee. If Kenneth Svendsen is released, it must be outside the Committee and outside the Stortinget. He is behind what the Progress Party has done in the Committee on this matter. Moving has been required. Especially in the beginning, the moving process seemed to be on wrong track, as a result of wanting to move supervision to Bodø. Recruiting new employees also seemed difficult. Therefore, there is reason to be satisfied with the plan presented by the current lease, a plan to support progress in the moving process in relation to what seemed to be the reality of a time. Right-of-person measures based on economic incentives, training and recruitment of staff with an untraditional professional background have also led to positive recruitment. The centre has noticed that the removal costs will increase due to different measures and that the operational costs will also increase on the basis of the proposals in the message. We are determined that the size of the annual budgetary management should make the necessary decisions for moving and operating costs. It is fundamental that the Air Safety Authority maintains the competence required for the continuous functioning of oversight. This is crucial to enable the oversight of aviation with the airlines and Avinor to operate for flight safety at the top international level. I note that the current lease has a good handle on the process that he is going well. I believe that progress is justifiable, and that the process is being carried out in a way that today's rentals serve as a fuel for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e308	For the Government, it is a general objective to use the whole country. In order to ensure balanced regional development, it is important to establish skills jobs outside the capital area. In this context, it is important that the country also contributes through the localisation of its activities. In view of, inter alia: this was done by the Government of St.meld. No 17 for 2002-2003 to shift more supervision out of the capital area. Based on the desire to further develop the aviation environment in Bodø and strengthen the city as a regional centre, the Government went in to ensure that the Air Safety Authority was moved to Bodø. The proposal to move selected supervision out of the capital area was widely endorsed by the Stortinget. The transfer of the Air Safety Authority to Bodø has been arduous, and there has been a great deal of concern about the movement process. I have therefore found it necessary to present this big message about the move. In the message I have explained the status of the move process and the steps I have taken to ensure that the move is carried out in line with the Storting decision. An underlying assumption for the entire process has been that flight safety shall not be impaired as a result of the movement. In my opinion, the measures taken and described in the message have helped to give a new giver in the move process. The measures will also, in my opinion, ensure that the aviation oversight can maintain its competence and function as normally as possible during the period of relocation. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to praise those who have stood by and contributed to the move process getting into a better track. At the same time, I think it is right to thank those who have their work in the Air Safety Authority in Oslo, and who for various reasons do not want to be supervised by Bodø. I will commend them for their loyalty to the Air Safety Authority and for their work over many years. I would also like to answer the question I received from the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen. An assessment of different options for permanent premises of the Air Safety Authority in Bodø is being undertaken. According to the supervision itself, there have been many good alternatives on the table, which are now being worked on further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e326	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e329	The 2004 Annual Communication from the Air Safety Authority states: ‘The new Air Safety Authority shall operate in Bodø in January 2007. Without prejudice to the entry into force of this Regulation, the Air Safety Authority will continue its work on aviation safety and carry out its tasks in an efficient and user-friendly manner.’;» These are very reassuring words when the supervision at the same time requires good and qualitative supervision that should not weaken the position of the actors vis-à-vis foreign competitors. It should not be denied that the move to Bodø has been and is still demanding, but fortunately, one has cleared away personality conflicts. After Otto Lagarhus took over as Director on 1 February of this year, an assessment of the recruitment requirements was made on the basis of international recommendations. It turned out that recruitments of candidates with military background could also be opened, as has previously been said no. The additions in Bodø seem to be going well, and several of the employees in Oslo can now imagine working in Bodø. The reason for more circumstances associated with the movement process is now that the movement will be slightly more expensive than intended. That is of course regrettable, but I am very pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy nevertheless believe that the move should be carried out. It is regrettable that the Progress Party will stop the move process. What will it cost, even for those people who will be thrown out into an uncertain future? How many, then, will be left in the Air Safety Authority? The representative Kenneth Svendsen of the Progress Party says he will vote for the move. Two years ago he did not vote at all. So now he wants to vote in favour, but he's still writing a scratch note about the stop of the move. What kind of double accounting is that? At the same time, he withdraws into the Northernland newspaper the vote of the representatives of the Workers' Party from Northern Ireland on the move of the main command from Reitan to Jåttå – I lost that vote, but it would be alarming if, in an ex-post proposal, I proposed to return the main command to Reitan. There must be some respect for majority decisions taken by the Stortinget. It should apply to all the games. We are talking about 140 beloved jobs for which the municipality of Bodø will in the future be the host municipality, for which the Workers' Party has always agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e349	I would first of all like to commend the Council of State for the process that is now under way in the Air Traffic Authority. Although some of us who are the good support players of the Council of State for a day, seemed a little bored at first, I now think, when this came into the right track, that there is also a basis for giving praise and honor. I also think there is reason to point to the importance of having an active, good, enthusiastic and glowing management to bring about changes, whether in the area of central government, relocation decisions or the implementation of the Storting decision at all. In this respect, this case and this process have great transfer value to a lot of other things that we are also involved in in this room, and for which different government councils are responsible. As a major consumer of air services, I also think it is gratifying to record that both the Council of State and other actors in this area underlined the need for aviation safety to remain at the centre. The fact that safety should not be reduced but, on the contrary, increased while the movement process is in progress is both A, B and C in the work being done. What amazes me, like several others who have spoken here, is the attitude of the Progress Party in this matter. The Progress Party has in many respects pointed out that the Storting Decision will be implemented. In this context, the Stortinget has taken a clear decision, but the Progress Party tries best to spread disinformation and train the decision as far as they can. I think it is to speak with at least two tongues when the representative Kenneth Svendsen writes a series of negative comments and arguments against moving, which ends up proposing to stop the decision that Stortinget has made, which is now being implemented with great success, and in other contexts goes out and says that what he himself has written in his remarks in the setting, he is not for. I think it's under the dignity of a great representative to act in this way. It is also used to argue that this is economically costly; some incentives need to be put in place to ensure that the process is carried out in a good way. What would this have cost if we had now, after starting this process and getting halfway in the move, had stopped and gone back to scratch? There is no team in the economic argument of the Progress Party – nor in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e367	Previous speakers said something similar to the fact that the decision is now ‘implemented with great success’. What you put in the word "success" may be somewhat different. At least that's not how we see it. The representative, Hansen, said we're using a financial justification. In my first post, I said that ‘you can still live with the economy’, and tried to focus on and concentrate on the professional objections. That's what's our concern. Yes, we can always use some extra millions, although, of course, it's isolated in and on its own is problematic, but maybe it's not the main problem. The representative, Sahl, referred to a general statement such as ‘Fremskritsparte’s lack of rural policy’. I think it was far from meeting with what is at the heart of the matter today. And if we're going to base the kind of argument: in another committee that I know even a little bit better, we're going to make a statement during the day about a comprehensive case where I think both I and the representative Sahl could sit down and see who, according to these criteria, is the most district friendly – if that's how we want to argue. This is addressed by a professional concern, issues that are real, which are pointed out by several bodies. And more speakers here today have also said that this is demanding, this is difficult, this has not gone as easily as you intended. So it can't be that this is something we've come up with alone!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e381	I don't know if the president has registered it, but it's like the election campaign in Northern Ireland has started. And here in the hall, a lot of words have fallen, including: from Tor-Arne Ström, Torny Pedersen, Jan Sahl, and others, that it is under the dignity of the great thing that Svendsen speaks with two tongues, that it is a lie, double bookkeeping, etc. As far as the work of the Committee is concerned, it is my duty to ensure that the views of the majority of the party are expressed in comments. It's an obligation I set high, and I've done it. But then at the same time, I'm so lucky that I'm in a party where it's high below the roof. That is why I am released in this case – and will vote for Bodø – as I was released last time during the same case. Then I was unfortunately the dividends, but I was freed and could have voted for Bodø as well. Then it is claimed that in the Nordic newspapers I boast that I am freed. It's completely wrong. I note a fact. I am released and will vote for Bodø. On the other hand, I am amazed that Stroem and Pedersen are so high on the track here. I remember that when we dealt with the matter of moving from Retan to Jåttå, Torny Pedersen was forced by the Workers' Party to vote against Bodø, but for Stavanger. Fortunately, I'm in a party where it's high below the roof. And I'm going to vote for Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e392	I want to state that I am very happy that it has been and is such a broad uprising about this move. And now that we've been through a difficult period where it's been important and right to take some action, we see that the process is in a good track. What many people have been involved in, and I would like to stress, is that what has been absolutely crucial to us throughout the process, is that we feel confident that supervision, the oversight of security, will work all the time. I would like to stress that I live with the belief that it is possible to live elsewhere in the country than here and at the same time have competence in important areas, such as aviation. What was used as a professional objection to being able to either have or build competence in other places, I cannot attend. Bodø is a good place to have the Air Safety Authority. I would also like to stress that what has emerged from the Advancement Party in terms of the Commission's recording must either be due to a misunderstanding or that what has been presented here has not been read well enough. What the Commission has said is that they propose to the Ministry that an action plan be drawn up in consultation with the Air Safety Authority to correct the most vulnerable areas. We have shown this in the message that we have already done, and the feedback we have received from the Harvari Commission in this way, suggests that we have done what they have asked us to do. I would also like to point out that with regard to the qualification requirements that have been set here, the situation in this area shows that it does not seem to be as difficult as you might have imagined in the past. Air traffic control has re-examined the international recommendations and two types of requirements are required: recruitment requirements and requirements for finished inspectors. This means that any lack of competence can be compensated by training. In both respects, the oversight will be at the same level as other European aviation regulators and has adjusted the requirements accordingly. I feel confident that the developments we are seeing, and what is now happening in terms of employment, etc. in Bodø, is a good track, a right track. We have every reason to be confident that security is well maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e405	It has been a very interesting debate because there has been evidence of both internal processes, victories and losses in the groups, and other discussions that have gone ahead and that are still going on in this matter. But the most important thing is that today we have a broad agreement to continue the process of moving that is now going on, and that we believe that this must and must be a success. I am a little concerned when the representative, Höglund, is so clearly expressing a lack of faith in the districts, as he looks at regional policy against quality. It may be a bit of the same thing that is claimed from the option that for some strange reason has been called the red-green ones – they also say that in the future they will stop such emigration processes. When the government proposed, and later got multiples, a move out, this was not to help the districts. It was a recognition, a recognition, of the fact that we, as citizens in the districts, actually also have competence, and that the whole country will have joy and benefit from the fact that the competence becomes useful where he is – whether it is now in Bodø or other places that have been relocated to state jobs. The representative, Højlund, went very far in questioning whether there could be sufficient competence in Bodø. What got me to take the word, was exactly the doubt he brought to squares, if this would go beyond flight safety in Norway. The answer is that it definitely won't. On the part of Stortinget, on the part of the Government, and on the part of the Air Safety Authority, it has always been a doctor at the bottom that security should not get any worse. It is completely wrong if the representative, Høglund and others, believe that everything was only a pleasure and fun in the old Air Traffic Authority when it was a crazy recruitment. If the representative Höglund had read the big message we are discussing today, he would see that there were actually several problems with recruitment in the past. It has also been said in the same message that the Government, in the same way that we in the Government Party assume that some of the competences that the supervision previously lacks can be acquired because of the processes we are currently in process. Only to sum up the whole map: at least safety should not get worse. This is not a handshake for the districts, but it is simply a recognition that District Norway can also add competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e418	The representative Svendsen is talking about the election campaign. Yeah, he's right about that. But this has nothing to do with the election campaign, it has to do with showing respect for the decisions the Storting has taken. That's what this is all about. I was told that in my previous post I used a non-parliamentary expression when I talked about lies from the representative Svendsen. I might be able to moderate myself and say it in a different way: that's not exactly what he says in relation to the comments that are written in. That's what we've been dealing with, when we say that the representative Kenneth Svendsen has knowingly written into the comment that we want a rematch in terms of the Air Safety Authority of Bodø. It's black on white. That's what we've been dealing with. It is then quite pleasant to be able to travel around and say that you are in favour – but actually you are against – the policy of the Progress Party is against the move of the Air Safety Authority to Bodø. That's what this is about. It's like sometimes you win things, sometimes you lose things. But in a democracy one must deal with the decisions that are taken. It's a majority and a minority. Sometimes you have to bend for it. There is no doubt that the air traffic control rematch has been launched by the Progress Party. I think you have to deal with that. What happens when you start that rematch is that there's a lot of uncertainty about the move process. There's been uncertainty about the move process, but now you've got it on the right track, and then the Advance Party goes out the way they do. You were opposite the first time this was up. But you've made a decision in Stortinget, and when you see which way this was going, I think it's quite unique that you start the fight again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e429	Finally, I take the floor to say that I think the angle that comes from the Progress Party is alarming. I think it is sad that you run the safety ahead of you. This is a debate which is obviously going not only in Northern Ireland but also in Oslo. The progress game here is trying to ride two horses at the same time and look at their pickers both places. It is not particularly pertinent in such a serious issue as security. I can assure you, sir. Høglund that security comes first, and security comes last. It's not just the Air Safety Authority that's behind it. The ministry has closely followed it up. Avinor is a security organisation itself. And the airlines, which give Høglund and me safety when we board, stand for the greatest safety of all. There is no one who will have such a huge setback if safety is not put in the high seat, as those who live by carrying passengers like the representative Høglund and me. Höglund should perhaps also listen to his party trap, Kenneth Svendsen, who probably has a lot more competence in air transport and in transport in general. He then claims that Kenneth Svendsen enters a line that could endanger the safety of the passengers. It is indirectly a rather bold claim against his own party trap, which is also the leader of the Progress Party in the Committee on Transport. This process does not take place unless security is fully safeguarded, and I am absolutely sure that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e438	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2758]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e454	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e461	St.meld. No 64 for 2004–2005 mentions 13 issues. There is a feedback to the Storting about where these matters stand, what has happened, and what is going to happen. There is little dynamite in these matters – perhaps a little sad for me, which is inside the second week of Stortinget and present my last case as a case spokesman. It could have been exciting with a little political dynamite at the end. But I'm not going to create any conflicts that don't exist. I'm just going to talk about a few of the things. In the case of the Svinesund link, due to a lack of legal basis in Sweden, the toll stations planned on the Swedish side are moved to the Norwegian side. It's liberal and easy to deal with, and it's okay to have this in place before the opening of the Svinesund Bridge tomorrow, which many of us are so lucky to participate in. On the E16 from Sandvika to Bergen there are two sections – the Wøyen–Bjørum and the Borlaug–Voldum section. In the case of Wøyen-Bjørum, the Committee welcomes the fact that the quality assurance of the project is underpinned by the decision to build up the route, with the financial savings contained in it, and not in two stages, which it had previously foreseen. The Committee hopes that the experience gained here can also be used in other corresponding projects, with the result that more money will be provided. In addition, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre have pointed out that previous investigations show that the rigging and dismantling of equipment in the case of small entrepreneurship costs significantly. It's quite a good idea to get a bigger project. On this section, the Committee points out that it is a stretch from Steinklepp to Eye that has also begun. Collecting this will give you a better way from Sandvika to Bergen on E16. In the case of rv. 2 Cliffed–Nybakk, there will now be a narrow four-field road within the attached frame. In order to build that road in a stage throughout the distance, the Department of Proposition informs that the State Road Administration will start work on revising the regulatory plans. A direct extension to the four-field road will result in a much lower total cost than a two-stage extension. It will happen within the cost frame that was originally there. The Committee welcomes this. I basically see this as an example of how we have to try to get it to go forward. We have to try to make it so that we build a road for tomorrow's traffic and not yesterday's traffic. The Committee points out here that there is a lot of heavy traffic on this route, and it is important that we build roads that tolerate that traffic and that there are good shoulders outside the road that make the road stable over time. I know there are more people here in the hall who are very happy that this road is getting better, and that there is going to be a four-field road. Then the majority in the Committee – all the unbecoming Progress Party – are happy that one has found a solution for the Imarsund project in spite of the increase in costs, a solution that does not mean any more government money, and that does not blow up the limits of the project. I have been and seen on the project, and I think this seems to be an important project for those who live in the area. We are pleased that it is now to be realized. Then, during the last six months, the Labour Party and probably many others have been given some impressions that the national transport plan and decisions in that context are not followed up in the action plans. Now, in the committee, we repeat that the state road authority is following up the intentions of the Storting. I argued that the Council of State is following it, and that what has been done for the Storting to the House is in line with what the Stortinget has said. Otherwise, I'd like to ask the Council of State a little bit about how that orientation will come about. When it comes to the alternative use of suspension agents, the Committee points out that these were not just meant to be used where they could be combined with tolls, but that they can also be used in other ways. Otherwise, I would like to say that there are many things that are not in this proposition, or that are not in ours – to name some in the West: the Jondal tunnel, Hardangerbrua, Finnfast, Haugalandsparken and the Bergen programme. It would have given us a more exciting and our workman, but unfortunately it is now too late. Finally, I would like to recommend the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e489	There are a number of very important issues that are discussed and partly described in this document. It is with great joy that I find that there is broad agreement on most things. However, I would like to draw up some of these projects, which are particularly pleasing. One is the distance between Sandvika and Solli Height, i.e. Wøyen–Bjørum on E16. The external quality assurance showed that the route has a lower cost framework than that calculated by the State Road Service. This allows us to expand directly to the four-field road, and those who know this distance know that this is a big step forward. It's a good term in this that we can now get things, that we not only get more money, that we've gotten away with in this period, but also that we can get more money. A little bit of the same debt for rv. 2, the route from the Klöfta austover towards Nybakk, where we already in the first construction stage actually manage to get to a four-field road. These are two very happy projects, where we now get a much higher road standard than the one originally set up – that is, even more than what we initially expected when we adopted these projects in the past. Another small matter that has received very little attention both in the media and in the work of the committee, but which is nevertheless important, is that we are now moving in to remove the guarantee scheme for second-priority loans for the construction and repair of national road ferries. This case may seem insignificant – and with today’s interest rate level it may also be of relatively small importance, but there is a considerable symbolic significance in this. It is part of the policy proposed and implemented by the Government, namely the launching of the national road haulage network. There are no more than a few days since we received a clear signal that the launch of the ferry sector has so far been a very great success. It shows that we get quite a lot of savings, and we get a better offer for the passengers for the money we spend. However, the system provided for a level playing field between the different actors to enter and provide their services in order to operate these routes. Then it is unlikely that the state will provide special guarantees to some companies that have been picked out of the country. Therefore, I am very pleased to note that we now have a broad majority to remove the arrangements that we have had for too long, and that – in times of slightly higher interest rates at least – have led to distortions of competition between the different companies. Finally, let me mention a project from my own home country, the Imarsund project. It's been about a year since we dealt with this matter and agreed to this important project. In addition to removing a ferry connection and connecting two municipalities, it also brings together the municipalities of Aure and Tustna. In connection with the big shot, which we're very excited about, it's also going to be a municipal election in the new big municipality in September. Now there was a cost overrun on this project, but thank you for the low interest rate – which we can of course discuss who has the credit for – one still manages to finance this project, even with the excesses in relation to the limits that the Storting has previously agreed on. It's a great day for the Outer North Murder, and it's a great day for the whole Moor and Romesdal, when we finally, I hope, can set the finish line for the political treatment of the Imarsund project.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e506	St. pp. No 64 is a so-called pooling proposition where the Government is briefing the Government on the development of different projects. I have not taken the word to go into each project, because I experience it so that the consensus is great in the matter. But I would like to take the opportunity to say a little bit about the Christian People's Party's general policy on transport, priorities and attitudes. Prosperity is an important key to the Christian People's Party. Good and appropriate transport solutions are essential for housing and business. The road network is a vital resource for regional and local development. It is important both in the districts and in the central areas, especially where the road is the only means of transport. Too many people are killed or seriously injured in road traffic every day. Many accidents are due to a lack of attitudes to follow traffic rules and to adapt speed to circumstances. Poor road standards and lack of racial protection can also increase the risk of accidents and create insecurity. The main objective of the Christian People's Party with transport policy is to develop a road-safe, environmentally friendly and efficient transport system. The vision of no fatalities or injuries in traffic is fundamental to our transport policy. The Christian People's Party will therefore invest in road safety and road improvements in the districts. The Christian People's Party will work for the development of a better road network. Specially important areas that we will give priority to are the resolution of accident points, more controls and physical divisions between the opposite lanes on highly accident-affected routes. We have programmed for the next period that the strain viruses need to be expanded more coherently, and that the allocations to highways must be at a level that preserves and further develops road capital. At the same time, we need a transport system that is sustainable for the future. This includes, inter alia: offensive commitment to public transport. The Christian People's Party wants prices for public transport to be reduced in general, so that it pays off financially to use public transport. However, in addition to prices, travel time, regularity, punctuality and reliability are crucial factors in working to maximise collective driving. The Christian People's Party will also invest in increased cycling usage with the development of continuous cycling networks in all cities and major agglomerations. The Committee on Transport asked at the beginning of the Budget. S. No 13 for the 2004-2005 department returns to the Stortinget with a case on how to prioritise the development of transport preparedness. For the Christian People's Party, security is the most important single consideration in the transport sector. An overall strategy for social security and preparedness in the transport sector is essential. We are therefore very pleased that the Government in this proposition provides information on the various research projects, investigations, risk and vulnerability analyses and crisis management exercises etc. which are under development, thereby demonstrating that they give priority to the work on social security and preparedness also in the transport sector. A common electronic toll payment system shall be established in the Nordic region. The Ministry briefs in this proposition on the work and financing of the system. Finally, I have a desire to address Eastfold's challenges. We have two important projects in Eastfold, E6 and Svinesund. It is a great pleasure to note that the E6 in Eastfold is now almost complete and will be completed in 2008. This is important for road safety reasons and not least because this route has been called the ‘death route’. I am very pleased with the positive association that has been in Stortinget to organise this important development, a matter for which I have worked for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e527	As many have discussed earlier in this debate, several of the individual issues mentioned in this proposition are matters of major importance to the Committee. The whole committee, or a large majority, has no comments on the matter. So I just want to link some comments to a couple-three of things here. Two points in this proposition relate to E16. E16 is the tribal road between east and west, between Oslo and Bergen. The road has a lot of traffic all year long. He's got a lot of stuff. a gradient which causes it to be widely used by heavy transport. When traveling between east and west in winter, this is one of the surest ways to choose. But the standard on this road has not been in proportion to the value of the road as a transport year. Therefore, it is gratifying that the development of several new parcels on this road will start up in the current year. At the Parsellen Wøyen-Bjørum, the quality assurance has confirmed that direct extension to the four-field road will result in a much lower total cost than a two-stage extension. It is therefore very good that this parcel is built as a four-field road in the first stage. The second parcel of E16, which is being launched this year, is Borlaug-Voldum. This parcel is one of the most stupid, perhaps the worst parcel on E16 today. Existing roads are narrow, curved, have many runs and have very poor performance. It is so bad that during periods of adverse weather conditions and high traffic, particularly heavy traffic, we have asked whether the traffic on this parcel should be restricted. When the work on repairing this parcel is started this year, with the redistribution of funds from other projects, a very necessary and demanding work is being started. Another thing in this proposition that I also want to say is that it's going to open up to rv. 2 Klöfta–Nybakk can be built as a narrow four-field road. A direct extension to the four-field road will result in a much lower total cost than a two-stage extension. The proposal also provides an orientation on the establishment of a common electronic toll payment system in the Nordic region, NORITS. The centre party is in favour of introducing a common system for toll stations and ferries. This may give you a simpler system and cheaper solutions than today. But it is decisive that this system does not lead to additional costs for automobiles or businesses. At the end of the setting, there is a composite committee drawing with two notes under point 4. Other things. The first note is a reference to the fact that the Storting assumes that the commitments made by Stortinget in the management of NTP 2006–2011 will be followed, in other words a reminder from Stortinget that Stortinget’s leadership will be the basis for the action plans in the counties. The second note is a clarification of the directionlines for the alternative use of suspension agents. It seems necessary to specify that it is possible to use release media, even if a project is not a toll project. From Stortinget's side, it was an absolute premise that those projects – perhaps just those projects – also had to be able to participate in holiday solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e548	I would first of all like to express my satisfaction with the committee's handling of these matters. As the rapporteur went on to say, there are a number of issues, and I know that there is a great deal of enthusiasm for putting forward more things. I take that as a very positive commitment in the important area of transportation. It is important for those affected by both opening up and starting traffic on the Svinesund link. It is important not least also in the interests of road safety in Eastfold. I have to say that it was a very dark picture that was drawn by the accident conditions in Eastfold four years ago when we took over the government power, and I experienced it so that there has been a great consensus on the Storting that it has been important to bet on getting on with those solutions. There are also other routes with which it has been important to move forward, especially in the interests of road safety, and some of them are within this aggregate. Let me also mention E16, where we're in on two sections. With regard to the Wøyen–Bjørum section, I would like to say that I am pleased that the committee is positive for direct expansion into four fields, and not in stages. The rapporteur was also concerned that this had a positive effect. We want to draw with us the experience of this project simply in order to get as much money back as possible. With regard to the E16 Borlaucht-Voldum, I have noted the Committee's comment on the Steinklepp-Øye route, and we will come back to this in the annual budgets. Rv. 2 The gap – Nybakk has also been a stretch of great attention, in particular road safety. I feel reasonably confident that those who use that road are very satisfied with the decision taken by Stortinget today in this area. So to what's in the joint proposition on NORITS. We want, through such a system, to make transport more efficient, and that there are less obstacles in the way of transport. That's why this is an important step forward. I have noticed the majority's observation that this should not lead to increased costs for drivers and businesses. I am concerned that we can get a simplification for road users, and that we can reduce the collection costs. But I'm taking with me the majority's comments. With regard to the issue of action plans, I would like to assure you that, of course, we are using the Storting's treatment of the national transport plan in the preparation of these. It would be natural to come back and inform the size of the budget for the autumn of the action programme. The budget will be based on the work on which it is based. So the question of the use of ferry subsidies. Projects where the country provides alternative use of ferry subsidies require local toll financing insofar as the traffic base is large enough to defend toll collection. When the traffic base is not large enough, it will be possible, as the Committee specifies, for local authorities, i.e. municipalities or county municipalities, to forge funds. I assume that in that case it will be based on the principles of St.prp. No 69 for 2003-2004 with regard to interest rates and price increases. For many in this country, this has been an important proposition, and I am very pleased with the result we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e569	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e572	Rv. 2 has been discussed and evaluated for 20 years, and many would probably give up along the way, but the rapporteur in South Odal has never given up hope of getting a good and roadworthy rv. 2nd, and honor be to him for it. I would therefore like to thank and praise the Ministry of Transport and the Council of State for raising the issue. 2nd@item: inlistbox The state road system will now start work on revising the current regulatory plan to build the four-field road in one stage throughout the Klöfta-Nybakk route. It is a pleasure that the Ministry has now found out that it is possible to build a narrow four-field road within the agreed cost framework. The Ministry of Transport has granted permission to build a four-field road with a width of 16 m on it. 4 km long distance between Klöfta and Borgen. This has been a wish of many locally, and the Workers' Party is pleased that there is now a clear message from the Ministry of Transport that a four-field road will be built throughout the Klöfta–Nybakk route in one stage. Rv. 2 is a heavily trafficked road with a lot of heavy transport, and it is important to underline the need to build the necessary road shoulders which create a stable and more roadworthy accessibility. Everyone who's been driving rv. 2 in winter and on a smooth lead, realizes how important it is to get a new rv. 2, and that this work must be carried out. I am therefore pleased that all parties in the Committee on Transport, with the exception of the members of the SV, are in favour of full expansion to the motorway standard. I would like to thank the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Verification of Credentials and Immunities very much for this decision. To SV I would say – it’s not about trains or roads. In the Glamdal region, there's actually talk about both, and there's a strong need for it. Everyone who lives and lives in this district understands. It's done a thorough pre-work. All the municipalities concerned have addressed the development of Rv. 2 and have taken a decision on the Trasé elections. The county council in Hedmark and Akershus have approved the plans, and the Road Directorate and the Ministry of Transport have approved the trasé elections. I allow myself to ask the Council of State to confirm that nothing can change the plans now, that the roadway is going to be the way the municipalities concerned have adopted, and that the progress plans are being kept. Like, we can't take any more chores about rv. Now 2 now. Now we see something happening, and now a Henning is happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e587	I only have a short additional comment that I did not get in my first post. The serious cries from Eastfold have been heard during this period of collapse, and I am very pleased about that. I therefore find reason to give a strong propensity to the Council of State and to the Government that there has been a willingness to listen to the serious signals that have come from our county regarding the very strained highways that the county has, namely E6 and E18. During this four-year period, Eastfold has really been put on the road map. In this context, there is also reason to note that the E18 in Inner Eastfold is our second route. It has a total of 25 pst. of freight traffic to Sweden. Here, too, work needs to be continued and the rate of expansion maintained, so that the entire plant is completed as far as possible during 2009. It has little purpose for good roads elsewhere in the country if Eastfold is to be a bottleneck, and I am glad that the Council of State has taken the consequences, and that we get the results that are now available, both during this period and during the next period. A warm thank you to the Council of State for well done work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e596	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2758]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e612	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e621	During this period, we have dealt with several issues in the field of biotechnology. These issues have all demonstrated that the field of biotechnology is developing, which calls for a continuous update of medical options and professional development. At the same time, attitudes change as the population's knowledge increases. To illustrate the dynamics: one must not have many years back before assisted fertilization was perceived as twirling with nature and should therefore be prohibited. Today, assisted fertilisation is a medical offer that is well received by the public. I don't think anyone here today would think about banning it. I mention this because it illustrates both the need for politicians to keep up-to-date with knowledge development and for politicians to take responsibility for disseminating knowledge, so that attitudes in the population can also be based on up-to-date knowledge and not just old tradition and religion. Furthermore, as politicians, we have to take responsibility for having legislation that enables us to make use of this knowledge for the benefit of the people we are to serve. It is in such a context that we need to understand the current position of a majority of the Social Committee. Just a year and a half ago, we dealt with the Biotechnology Act. Shortly after that, the law demonstrated its rigidity and shortcomings when it was to be tested in real life. The Mehmet case showed how the prohibition of preimplantation diagnostics prevented the use of knowledge and treatment methods that could make this little boy healthy. Fortunately, the bulk of the population thought about categorically holding on to this ban and gave an opening in the law so that a treatment offer abroad could be offered. The meeting with Mehmet's single partner made it possible for several people to remedy major disorders by making use of the possibilities offered by pre-implantation diagnostics. In the wake of this, attitudes also changed in the SV, by their country meeting going in to change the law on essential points. In all modern developments, we humans have sought knowledge and put it into practice, not least in the medical field. In this way, we have always tried to dispel nature's secrets and replace them with knowledge and technology. Knowledge can always be used and abused. This is also true of the knowledge developed in the field of biotechnology. In this way, there will always be moral and ethical balances that need to be made. However, such adjustments must be made on an informed and informed basis. Only then will the value choices become real. The majority see that developments in the field of biotechnology are such that we need a continuous revision and updating of the legislation in this area, so that one can facilitate both the use of new knowledge and research, so that Norwegian researchers can contribute to this valuable knowledge development. In this context, the majority of the Committee calls for the Biotechnology Act to be revised as soon as possible during the next majorisation period, thus also opening up research on fertilised eggs and for pre-implantation diagnostics.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e647	The main change that has occurred in this case since the last time it was discussed is that the Socialist Left Party has had a national meeting, in which they changed their position in two of the questions. What is important in this case, however, is that despite the fact that the Storting is likely to take a decision today which has positions contrary to the Government Parties and the Central Party in principle, there is still a majority who are concerned about the process to be followed for this type of legislative change. The representative Hildeng was concerned about the importance of people having knowledge of these issues. I'm not just concerned that the population has knowledge of these questions. I'm also very concerned that the population is actually given the opportunity to be with and discuss this kind of basic question. This can quickly be produced as a debate on medicine and on technology, but it is not. This is primarily a debate on what values we want our society to be built on. That is why I very much welcome the fact that the Socialist Left Party, the government parties and the Central Party agree that the review of the biotechnology law adopted today by the majority of Stortinge must be carried out in a way that is based on professional judgements, normal consultation rounds and a generally professionally sound procedure, and that one also refers to the previous evaluations of the biotechnology law that have been. The previous evaluations have, in my view, shown that they have largely managed to involve quite wide sections of the population in a debate on these issues, both through the layman's panel and not least through the involvement of the various organisations concerned, such as the United Kingdom. organisations of disabled persons. I hope that the future evaluation, which will now begin, will be based on the same type of reading, so that a broad debate on this will take place, and that it will be the basis of the Stortinge to take the final discussion on the amendment of the law. I feel it so that although the majority of the Storting today changes its view of what was before, there is a difference between SV's approach to these issues and the approach of the Labour Party and the Advance Party. SV is still, as I see it, concerned with pointing to the dilemmas, the ethical challenges and the constraints that such possible opening would have to entail, while the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are still in charge of a scoring policy in this area. There are two main questions that have been discussed. One is preimplantation diagnosis, and the other is research on fertilised eggs. With regard to the question of preimplantation diagnosis, there is a question where the law today opens up. Also the law that was passed with the government parties, the centre party and SV's votes, opened for preimplantation diagnostics. But the difference between today's law and the law that applied before was that we had a much clearer definition of when it was to be used. The former law had a clear delineation that there would be a hereditary gender-related disease that was not compatible with life. So the discussion about preimplantation diagnostics is about the discussion about how big the door should be when one opens up to a sort society. I hope that the process we're about to enter will provide an answer that will provide the basis for the next big business, or the big business after that, adopts a law that doesn't open the door far up to a sort society, but sets clear limits to avoid this. I believe that today's law, by way of exception, has a far too wide definition of when one can grant exemptions for preimplantation diagnostics, which will lead us towards a society where one can sort by attributes, and it's a society that discriminates. In the case of research on fertilised eggs, there is a more fundamental question, a fundamental question in which the minority believes that there is a question of whether a life is to be made a means of another, or whether it has its full self-esteem. But it's not a matter of research on stem cells, because the minority also want research on stem cells, but on adult stem cells. With this, I address the proposal that the minority is promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e670	The representative Bent Höie has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e673	I do not hide the fact that I am very pleased with the position that is being taken in the Grand Duchy today, namely a total revision of the existing and very restrictive biotechnology law adopted by the Stortinget by means of the Socialist Left for a relatively short time. The decision taken today is a directive – I stress a directive – on the future government to change the law on all essential issues, including the liberalisation of foetal diagnostics and the use of ultrasound early in pregnancy. It has been important for the Progress Party and myself that Norway, in line with the other Western countries, should participate in the revolutionary development of this technology that is taking place elsewhere in the world, and that Norwegian research communities on an equal footing with others should be able to participate in developments at a high international level, which the current biotechnology law does not give rise to. That I would experience a spin-off among Norwegian politicians in this field on the back of my career in Stortinget in a matter I have worked a lot with, feels good. I would also like to believe that the Norwegian research communities and also the Norwegian population will be pleased with the position that now exists. I stated a year and a half ago, when the Mehmet case was being dealt with in the Stortinget, and where the majority of the Stortinget put in place a right of derogation for preimplantation diagnostics, that this was the first step on the way to changing the whole of the legislation, which would be a direct research inhibitor for the Norwegian environments as long as it remained standing. I got right, yes, fact faster than I expected. With the majority decision in the vote, the Progress Party did not find it necessary to take up its proposal from Document No. 8:64 for 2004-2005, but is now part of the majority position in the case. Proposals for new biotechnology laws must be comprehensive in relation to existing legislation. This also applies to foetal medicine and the use of ultrasound. A look-up in the newspaper Our Country June 3 had an opinion from Per Steinar Osmundnes, who might suggest that the Christian People's Party will also use time and energy in this debate to suspect the majority and to think differently about having a sorting society. Yes, that's the fact more serious than that. I quote: ‘With this decision, the majority – and SV – contribute to the whole society becoming a kind of reality show, where the weakest part is always voted out.’ This is not just a monstrous statement, but a directly hurtful statement, which I will attribute to the young representative's political immaturity and lack of knowledge. The Bondevik government has now for nearly four years administered the current abortion law, where 14 000 to 15 000 healthy foetuses are removed every year, and where about 1 000 to 15 000 healthy foetuses are removed. 70 pst. of the senaborts occur at the request of the woman to abort foetuses with chromosome faults and a risk to Down syndrome. A rhetoric especially from the Christian People's Party, but also from the Right, is that we're going to have a society with space for everyone. In theory, of course, I agree with this, but the world of reality in Norway today shows something quite different. Today, we haven't organized society to give room to all the people with disabilities and their parents in a good enough way. I really wonder sometimes how well the Christian People's Party really knows those women and families who have more or less let themselves be forced not to take abortions in order to avoid being stamped as second-class people. Recently we could see a young mother on the TV with a multi-disabled child who needed family care 24 hours a day. She was fed off with a care allowance of NOK 5000 a month from the government. The eternal struggle that parents of disabled children are bringing against the public utility has not become anything less under the government that was in place than it was in the past. Here, the government parties should really feel more humble about the fact that this problem also has a side of mercy that is slightly ignored so far in our society. I hope that the present proposal will have a majority, and that this law will return to the Stortinget as soon as possible in the next period. Then we can see the future brighter, also in terms of the prevention and treatment of seriously ill citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e704	Norway has, in its view, been particularly forward-looking in the field of debate on biotechnology. As one of the first countries in the world, we have developed our own legislation in this area, and this has also led to a number of debates on very important ethical issues in the landfill. It also means that at different times, all parties have revised their positions both as the ethical debate has made it possible to see things in new ways, and as techniques such as those that were wrong to apply at an early stage have gradually gained a level of security that means that people have not been exposed to dangerous interference, or that they have risked too much by putting the techniques into practice. For example, you might be horrified by the resistance to assisted fertilization at an early stage, but if the technique had been used too early, you would have risked aberrations in the foetus because the technology was too poor. Therefore, it was important to be critical of the technology until it was safe enough to enable it to be put into service properly. That's how you can debate different questions. We have had debates in this Chamber, among others. on the use of sperm, sperm cells derived from testicles, and where we know that the technology could previously lead to deviations in the foetus if it was introduced – so it would be wrong to use it prematurely. In this way, parts of the law can be challenged and made visible that there is no question of being as liberal as possible in human service or as restrictive as possible in the sense that people are being deprived of their rights. So the questions are a lot more complicated than they were. I think that the post that the representative Bent Höie made, in many ways, reflects that these are complicated questions, that one should respect the fact that there are different opinions, and that change on some points does not mean that one renounces principles. When we had the debate on the Biotechnology Act, SV highlighted the ethical aspects. When we got the debate that was triggered by the single case Mehmet, we also tried to do that. When you look later at the consequences of the change in the law, you might say that on the one hand it was good that you could get an assessment of the methods that were available. On the other hand, there may be reason to question whether the Storting goes too far from its responsibility to draw up the ethical boundaries. A revision of the Biotechnology Act allows responsibility to be brought back where it belongs, namely in Stortinget. There have been some people who have made dramatic changes to the law by opening up pre-implantation diagnostics, but what is important to underline, and which I think Bent Höie also found in his post, is that the law already opens up to it today, but then related to serious hereditary genital disease. So what this change is going to entail is not just linking it to the concept of "female bond", but doing so in the case of serious hereditary disease, and then you have to have entry criteria that define the width of that door, as the representative Höie also specifically described it. So we know that in order to implement pre-implantation diagnostics in order to carry out that type of research, we also need to be able to research in large numbers of fertilized eggs. Therefore, it would be logical to accept the method and to accept the research leading up to the method. So these two questions are related. This does not mean relinquishing the ethics associated with the use of the method, and it will be important in future societies to discuss which premises it will take. For my part, it is problematic not only to use technology to ensure that the children born have the best possible health, but that the children born should also serve the purpose of ensuring that others have the best possible health. What's at risk is that the method of selecting a special type of blood, special characteristics, can expose the child being born to a danger you didn't have to face. Therefore, a review of the Biotechnology Act provides for a renewed opportunity to take up and discuss the premises which have now been the subject of the review, whether that door is as it should be in terms of width, or whether changes should be made, and to what extent that change is due to the Storting taking back the responsibility of Stortinget to determine ethics. In any case, there will probably be a need for a mention, because already today you have foreign affairs where there are questions about looking at the economy against the benefits of the treatment. But it may be that the premise for such a study will change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e723	I'm not hiding that this is a sad day for the Christian People's Party. I think it is twice as sad that the representative Alvheim has been the driver and has taken the initiative for this amendment. He and his party often say that they are close to the Christian People's Party in the value debate. During this great period, I have noticed that no one from the Advance Party supported the Constitutional Law on "The Right to Life... from Conception to Natural Death". Today our paths are separated again. This was also made clear in the speech by the representative today. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Advance Party that it is important to research stem cells, so that in the future you can cure diseases, such as: Parkinson's disease. To succeed in this, there are two ways to go. We want more research on adult stem cells. There is no need to use germinal human life to succeed in this research. If you use your own stem cells, you eliminate the risk of rejection, and it's not ethically conflicted. From California you can read that treatment with adult stem cells has been standard treatment for a long time. Data from various worldwide studies have led the American Heart Association in 2003 to mention the use of its own stem cells for the treatment of heart disease as one of the ten best advances in saving lives. In Norway, according to the National Centre for Stem Cell Research, 50–60 persons are researching this. Long thought that stem cells in the bone marrow could only produce blood cells, or that stem cells in the brain could only produce nerve cells. New research shows that adult stem cells have a much greater potential and should therefore be further focused on. Numerous fertilized eggs at assisted fertilization appear to be the Christian People's Party ethically problematic. This is why it is particularly good that research has now come up with methods where there is a growing need for surplus eggs. We must not stand up so that the need for more bulky eggs increases, as Document No. The 8 proposal can lead to this. The production of fertilized eggs only for research purposes takes a strong distance from the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party has a hard time understanding SV's turnaround. In all respects, SV has had a leading attitude both in environmental policy and in respect of human life. They were a strong and constructive co-player when we adopted today's Biotechnology Act. At that time the case-rapporteur, Olav Gunnar Ballo, said: ‘I have absolutely reason to believe that if you didn’t regulate the possibility, you would pick up more eggs than is strictly necessary. So yes, I think that research will go as far as it is possible, and that we – that is, the National Assembly – ‘actually have to set the limits.’ We agreed with SV that a beginning of life should not be a means of life for others, as it has a self-esteem and is a goal in itself. The Christian People's Party also agreed with SV that pre-implantation diagnostics should be careful, as one saw the risk of sorting according to the characteristics of the foetus if one did not set ethical boundaries for the science in this area. It is positive that today SV does not take an urgent decision and that they will obtain professional assessments, have normal consultation rounds and a professionally sound procedure. My hope is that the SV in new national meetings will change their position. The majority was scarce. To several newspapers, the representative Ballo has said that he will still work for his primary positions and have an ethical debate. The Christian People’s Party wants him to succeed in this, both in his own party and with new allies. It is important that someone always speaks the case of the weakest party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e759	I also want to remind you that the biotechnology law that we have today is only one and a half years old. We got a substantial revision of it – one might call it – last year in connection with the so-called Mehmet case. Besides that, it doesn't seem to be important things that have made you have to have a revision of this law now, as the proposal really is. I agree with the representative Bent Höie that the main change we have seen since the processing and adoption of the Biotechnology Act a year and a half ago is that, in connection with the national meeting they held in ours, SV has changed its political view of the field of biotechnology. I also agree with Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund. I am a little surprised that SV has taken such a position, in relation to the leading var-policy that SV has practised and foreshadowed in connection with this matter. If you are going through the Biotechnology Act, it is important to have the experience that is now being gained, to carry out a wide-ranging review on the basis of professional judgement, and to have contact with the environments affected by this. This means that no change can be made in 2005. I also believe that last year's decision concerning the treatment of Innst. O. No 71 for 2003-2004, opening up to limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics after treatment, should be part of the basis of experience taken into account in the review of an overall biotechnology law. At least you will have very short-lived experience if you have to go for this now. I am therefore pleased that it is a majority who say that this must be a matter to which one must come back after the big shot, and can therefore only be dealt with in 2006. As the majority put forward the premises for revision of the current Biotechnology Act, that is, in 2008. I recall the majority decision in connection with the treatment of Innst. O. No 16 for 2003-2004: ‘The Government is asked to evaluate the law and its scope after five years of application of the new Biotechnology Act.’ This was an SV at the time. I think it is important to remember that we, who are opposed to opening up preimplantation diagnostics today, also base this on ethical positions and a value view that may not be as subtle as the representative Alvheim tried to make it into. Among other things, there is reason to note that the Norwegian Handicap Association has opposed the use of preimplantation diagnostics, on the basis of a argument that this could contribute to the sorting of individuals based on characteristics. I think there's reason to listen to those views. At the same time, with the development of medicine and medical technology and knowledge, it is right that we hold an ongoing debate on what this area can also mean for people's lives and health. In that context, I'll give the government some praise. We don't have a very high level of research and scientific development in Norway, so we're going to see everything in a relative perspective. But after all, the government has followed up what the majority in the Storting said, when it was about this area at least, and extra funds have been given to research into the use of adult stem cells. It's important. Several of us have suggested that with proper research and prioritisation in this area, Norway can become a precursor country in stem cell research and its use in medical treatment and therapy. I think we should be more united about that than what goes on today's argument. I think the principles we used a year and a half ago are still valid. But we're going to have a continuous debate and a critical assessment of this area, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e786	The use of human medicine in biotechnology raises many ethical issues at the intersection of technological developments on the one hand and value issues on the other. Rapid technological development makes it absolutely necessary to set ethical boundaries to ensure that development is in the best interests of both individuals and society. The objective of the Biotechnology Act underlines the fundamental principle that the medical use of biotechnology should be exploited for the benefit of humans in a society where there is room for all. A joint social committee joined this in dealing with the law. When Stortinget treated St.meld. No 14 for 2001-2002 on the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, the majority of the Government asked the Government to consider imposing a prohibition on preimplantation diagnostics. The majority argued that this type of diagnosis was highly problematic because it involved sorting out special genetic properties of the egg. This could involve emphasising the special characteristics of the foetus, i.e. in practice sorting according to defined criteria. As the majority of the population expressed during the treatment of this message, the Government considers that such sorting over time will affect the general attitude of people who are different or have a disability. If we are serious about the principle that society should have space for all, then ethics must also limit the use of technology in this area. On this basis, the Government proposed to legislate a prohibition on preimplantation diagnostics. During the examination by Storting of the legislative proposal, the prohibition was proposed to change to a limited access to pre-implantation diagnostics ‘in special cases in case of severe hereditary genital disease without treatment options’. It was emphasised that the concept of ‘serious hereditary disease’ may be difficult to define, but that in the case of gender-related diseases it will be possible to draw such a limit. What is now proposed in the Biotechnology Act means that ethical boundaries are again shifted towards a greater acceptance for sorting in Norwegian society. We're moving towards the experimental, which we can't overlook the consequences of. Some make it so that it is an unconditionally good thing to know the characteristics of an egg or germinal life and that the individual should have a great degree of freedom to decide who is to have the right to life on the basis of this. However, as the Government sees it, the freedom of individuals must be limited by the consequences that freedom has for other people and for society. For the Government, consideration is given to tolerating those who are different, the very main reason why we do not want further liberalisation of access to the use of preimplantation diagnostics. The majority of the social committee is in favour of allowing research on fertilised eggs. Such research could reduce man to a medium for others rather than an objective in itself. Both humanistic and Christian values are based on the fact that human life has its own value. Every germinal human life has a self-value that does not depend on the qualities or ability of social effort. Of course, we have to stand by such a value point, even though other countries have chosen to open up to this kind of technology. I then record that among the majority, both in the position and to the extent in this debate, it is nuances. There are shades that I know very well from the spring of 1994, when we dealt with the law – then I myself sat on the social committee. The Progress Party and the Labour Party have exactly the same views on this as at the time, it hasn't changed very much. At that time, right, in the same way as SV, had two views on these things. On the right, however, we gathered for a ban on, among other things. research on fertilised eggs and preimplantation diagnostics. I record that the majority in the vote also have these shades. I noticed that also in posts from the representative Ballo there is a bit on the one hand and a little on the other. It may be a good starting point for such an assessment, so that there will be a thorough examination of the case in advance of any proposals promoted by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e811	I have a question for the Council of State that goes to the further work. Today's decision will become quite clear. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for revised Biotechnology Act which will contain two things. Limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics and research on surplus fertilised eggs shall be opened. So it is also clearly stated in the setting that you should not take internal swings in relation to proceedings – i.e. those that are heard must be heard. You have to follow normal procedures in relation to a legislative process. However, the conclusion is clear: limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics must be opened up and research on surplus fertilised eggs should be opened up. My question to the Council of State is: When does the Council of State expect that a person with a normal consultation round can come to Stortinget with such a bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e822	It is clear from the setting of the ‘guide lines’ in relation to the investigations the size of the device is intended to be at the forefront of such treatment and the thoroughness with which it is to be reviewed. In so far as it is also apparent from observations made by at least one of the parties representing the majority. The representative Hanssen asks when. I think it might have been a little early to ask for an indication of time. It is very clear that this is what Storting wants to do quickly. What I can promise is that, of course, I'll start this work quickly. When we can get to Stortinget with it, it will depend on which – I kept saying – findings we make in the work, and the hearing opinions that may be related to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e835	I'm going to go a little further in relation to the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, starting with the post of Ola D. Glötvold, who, almost indirectly from this pulpit, believed that the government had no urgency, because the previous evaluation has been adopted in 2008. I hope not that misunderstanding from today's decision will be the government's policy. I do not demand that we get an answer today on when this comes to Stortinget, but I demand and in fact demand that even if this government should be seated, which some of us have a certain impact on, this decision should be followed up to the point and point, and the decision and change should come as soon as possible in the next period. I would like to make a comment on this from the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e842	I know very well the importance of being able to read decisions within, and I have no problem with that. I see what it says, and in the light of what it says, as I say, it will be most natural to initiate this work. Which spring or what harvest it is finished, will depend on how the work progresses, but deliberately obstruction on my part will be relatively incapacitated, and I see no reason for it either, when the bulk of the population has adopted what they have done. Then we'll see what session it's going to be, whether it's going to be spring or harvest, but we're going to start a work based on what's decided, and what's the premise, as it appears in the setting and in the light of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e847	The majority clarify their views, and SV is part of the majority who are in favour of starting work after the autumn 2005 elections. We will also be concerned that it should be a good job, but without deliberately seeking to delay it – in line with the decision we have taken. We have an interest in following up our own decisions. I record that it is used terms such as that SV has done a complete reversal. I think that is a positive error, because it is not that you are now opening up preimplantation diagnostics; it was already opened up with the law that was passed in the current period. But in order to carry it out, it must be researched on abundantly fertilized eggs, and what I want to ask the Council of State is whether the Council of State sees the inconsistency of opening up a technology that, at the same time, is not to accept research in relation to when it comes into use.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e854	This matter, this whole matter, is full of paradoxes, ethical dilemmas, where the law of logic cannot necessarily be fully followed. I remember very well when we had this debate last time – it was exactly the same thing, it was this lack of inner logic. And it's clear, as the representative Ballo said in his introduction, that it's important that we have the research basis before we allow the use of techniques, no matter what it may be, whether it's in difficult ethical areas or in simple ethical areas. There will be a maximum natural part of a review in this field. If you're going to go beyond what today's law does in terms of using technology in such an area as this, you have to know for sure the consequences, so it doesn't seem like the pure experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e859	This matter arouses strong feelings among all of us who participate in the debate, whether we stand for one point of view or the other. What's common to us is that we feel that what we're discussing are very important things. It makes a lot of demands on us as to how matters are discussed, and it demands that you actually have to respect each other's views, if you don't accept them. It was therefore really quite provocative to hear the representative Bent Höie define the views of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party as being without regard to ethical values and as a let it scour policy. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he shares Bent Höie's views on this with regard to the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e864	First of all, I agree with the representative Hildeng that the more difficult ethical issues we are discussing, the more important it is to respect each other's views and positions. I have the utmost respect for those who have a different view than me of this, and I hope I did not say anything in my post that would run counter to it. It is very important that no matter what ethical position you have, you have to respect the fact that you can reach different conclusions on different policy issues. Even people who have the same value anchoring can land on different conclusions. When it comes to the representative Bent Höie's view of these matters, I think I share all his views. In terms of characteristics that may have been distributed in relation to the views of other persons or parties, I personally feel no great need to share them out of the Storting Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e871	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e876	I feel that the debate on the biotechnology law here today has in essence occurred in an atmosphere that the matter deserves, and that respect for different positions is made visible. At the same time, there are elements in relation to what has been said, which I would like to comment on. Some of the statements represent extremes. John Alvheim stated that there will be a revision of the Biotechnology Act on all essential points. It's a statement that I can't see that there's any coverage for. You will have a full review of the entire biotechnology law, which you should have in the first place during the enlargement period that comes. However, through the decision taken, there are indications that you should not have the review at the end of the period, but you should seek to do so as soon as it is practicable and within a reasonable framework. But that doesn't mean that you're going to suddenly abandon the positions you've taken in relation to individual matters that have been thoroughly dealt with in the current period. I believe that there are essential positions taken by a majority. There are also changes on some points. Among other things, the child’s right to know his biological origin will be important for SV to stand firm. We've discussed other areas in relation to rights. SV has taken a decision on the rights of homofiles in society, which are partly affected by the law. It will be important questions for us to take up again. So it's not that we're now suddenly going to end up with a law that in all sorts of areas will look completely different. Thus, I am actually responding to the statement by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund that SV, she said, has made a 'heavy turn'. I see that through its national meeting decision, SV takes a different position in relation to the use of pre-implantation diagnostics. But it is important to stress that all the parties in the Stortinget have supported the use of preimplantation diagnostics under certain conditions, such as severe hereditary genital disease, as I said. It has also been done by the Christian People's Party. It has also been done by the Center Party, even though Ola Glütvold argues as if you've been against the technology being used. What SV says here is that you have to expand the scope of the indication, but that you still have ethical approaches to when the technology is going to be able to be used, and that it will be a task for the future accumulation to decide on the driving rules. Trying to present it as if you're not going to have ethics about this is going to be totally wrong. There is also another aspect of this, namely an economic side, which it becomes important to discuss: what makes it reasonable to set up offers in Norway on the basis of purely professional considerations, and what makes it reasonable to say that you should offer abroad? And where should the boundaries go, up against the results that can be expected to be achieved? It is an important debate that we must also take with us in the next big period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e892	The right to life is fundamental. In the Christian People's Party, we have always believed that human life has an inviolable self-esteem, and that human life cannot be appraised for any other purpose. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, it is decisive that we have a society where there is room for everyone, and where we do not differentiate the human world according to the characteristics of a human being. It's been a good one and a half years since we passed the laws on biotechnology, a law in which the fundamental ethical questions meet complex scientific issues. The conclusion of the laws then was that man would be inviolable and have a clear self-esteem. I don't think there's any party on Stortinget that disagrees with complicated questions, and that there may be difficult problem settings when technology and ethics meet. Nevertheless, I would say that it is a sad day when one today goes to the step of solving the ethical barriers and the milestones one sets down, for one expands this and goes one step further. After the adoption of the Biotechnology Act, a first step was taken for approx. One year back, and now we're going to take the next step. I'm, just as the representative Alvheim quoted me from Our Country, afraid that it's just the beginning of a society where one is going to systematically go in and find the weakest link. I'm afraid this is a policy where one says that some properties will not accept in this society, and thus choose one to remove them. Where, then, should these limits go? Who is it that should consider what is an anomaly? And who has the right to decide who has a life worth living? The NFU has given a clear indication that they do not want to do this. Lukewarm pulled out Norway's Handicap Federation, I believe it was, who has come with the same setting. I'm actually happy with the characteristics of today's generation of young people. I didn't think we as politicians should go in and say that some properties are worth more than others. John I. Alvheim would like to show the consequences of the policy. Then the representative of Alvheim may be allowed to say that he will be hurt. But I don't accept that the representative Alvheim claims to be hurt by a characteristic, because it's not about a characteristic. It's about saying what is the consequences of the policy that the Storting is always adopting. If the representative Alvheim does not accept that people have a different view of the consequences of a policy, he should also think a little about it. Olav Gunnar Ballo has said today that there is no reverse operation from SV. He said this as a case spokesman when we discussed the matter last time: ‘I would say that we as a national Parliament would appear naive if we did not regulate it, so that the researchers themselves would not determine the premises for this.’ He said that in connection with the question of researching fertilised eggs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e912	We all have a goal of curing as many diseases as possible, avoiding diseases, and giving birth to as many healthy children as possible. But for some of us there are certain limits. One of the limits goes by making a life a means instead of a goal in itself. Another limit is by emphasising special characteristics of the foetus, so as to facilitate in practice the sorting of life with a background in defined characteristics. In the Right's view, we must have a society where a life is a goal in itself, and a human society must still have accepted that not all individuals who are born always fit into a general sense of what is normal. The representative Alvheim pulled the load on the woman. He was also hurt because of Osmundne’s statements in the media. The fact is that the representative Alvheim's opinion goes across both what the Church believes, and across what the disabled people's associations think. Yes, it's hard to bear a disabled child – heavier than any of us who have only had healthy children, can imagine, and it's a huge burden for the family. But is it the solution to offer these women that it will be easier not to bring these children forward, that it will be easier to remove these children who are not healthy? What kind of freedom of choice are we offering the woman? It's not a real freedom of choice. What we have to do together is to facilitate that society does even more for these women, do even more for these families. Then we talk about taking care of both the woman and the family and the unborn life. We must not get into a situation where we do not facilitate that the woman can bring this child forward. It must still be acceptable to provide children who are not functionally healthy. In the view of the Right, it must also be the ethics that governs technology, not the technology and the development of new methods that govern ethics. I regret that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are so concerned about how to exploit technology that one seems to downgrade the ethical debate and downgrade the priorities of taking a balance between ethics and the use of technology. I'm not saying that everything in the Biotechnology Act is absolute truths to stand there forever. However, amendments to the Biotechnology Act require a thorough evaluation of the law, requiring extensive consultation rounds and professional assessments. I regret that the Labour Party and the Advance Party do not take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e925	The role of legislator is, in general, a demanding role, and in the matter under consideration, a very unusually demanding role; partly because it is an area where research is constantly moving limits on what can be done, and partly because it creates very strong tensions in relation to inherited moral perceptions that our whole tradition of society has built up for 1,000 years. The positive thing about the Committee's position is that it has definitely shuddered from the urgency, which was the very main point of the proposal promoted by the representatives of Alvheim and Nesvik. It's a pleasure, because if there's any area that's not suitable for urgent work in the legislative role, it's this area. The fact that the majority of committees clearly establish this and say that there should be a normal, thorough preparation before Stortinget re-treats the Biotechnology Act, well, it should be self-evident. But when it's not self-evident, it's useful that the committee number makes it clear. Having listened to the debate, I would also like to state that the representative John I. Alvheim is alone in this room to understand the committee position so that it is an order to ‘amend the law on all essential points’. That's not what's in the configuration. Yes, strictly speaking, one part of the proposal that the majority is promoting is actually misworded, because an opening that is already in the law is ordered. In reality, the differences in the opinion of the majority behind the proposal are as large as they were the last time the Stortinge dealt with the matter, that is, when they made the derogation provided for in today's law. I am pleased that the representative Ballo maintains the reflected approach that has shaped SV's position in matters of this kind. There is a positive thing about the setting, and that is that it will help to remove the exception clause that is now written into the law, which is a very vague exception, and which just confirms my point: this is an area that is absolutely not suitable for urgent work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e936	The representative, Ola D. Glütvold, concluded his speech by saying that we need to have an ongoing evaluation and assessment of these important issues. I agree with Mr Glötvold on that. It is that, on these issues, we are increasingly and increasingly, probably, as medical progress progresses, we will face situations where one important consideration, for example: the treatment of serious disease conditions could address ethical concerns that we also need to address. We've had this debate, and we have, and we're going to have it in SV. I also expect other political parties to have this debate on an ongoing basis. So the debate in our party has turned out that the national meeting wanted a revision of some elements of the Biotechnology Act. But that doesn't mean that SV has left the precautionary principle, or no longer has the same respect for human dignity and life as before, as the representative Woie Duesund's remarks might suggest. Both our comments in the position and the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo's comments in the debate here today make it very clear to those who want to read, and to those who want to hear. The work to be carried out in the context of the review shall be carried out on a sound medical and ethical basis and with extensive consultation rounds, in which the opinion of the organisations of disabled persons is to be expressed and shall be listened to, as referred to here in the Chamber. Osmundnes then manufactures it so that the Christian People's Party is opposed to any use of preimplantation diagnostics. This isn't right. The question is what kind of legislation we should have in this area, not as Mr Osmundnes was saying, whether we should have legislation or not. That's what this debate is about, and it's going to be about, even in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e947	There are several posts dealing with preimplantation diagnostics, where one concludes that opening up to this will mean going towards a sort society. I wish we could be a little more sober when we discuss this. I would like to remind you that before the revision of the law, we had a paragraph in the Biotechnology Act that just opened up preimplantation diagnostics for serious heritable diseases. It was that paragraph, which had clear entry conditions to get preimplantation diagnostics, that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party went in to maintain. It was a law that had been there for years, and that came into existence while Gro Harlem Brundtland was prime minister. It was a law that was practiced, and if one were to take seriously the posts that have affected this, it would suggest that during that period we were within a sorting society. But that's not how it worked. It gave help to those who needed that kind of help. And that's what was taken away by the amendment of the law. I think we should also be a little more sober and take over the knowledge that we are gradually gaining, where research and research show that there is a great deal of restraint in taking abortion on the basis of disability. I think it's related to the fact that we've gradually got a much more open society, a society that also facilitates for people who are different. It's -- a society that facilitates -- that can prevent us from getting a sort society. That policy is very much to be found, because we see daily examples of discrimination against people with disabilities. That's the other side of the sorting society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e954	Fortunately, the debate so far has not become as bad as I had feared, but in and of itself bad enough to respect the human and Christian standing of others. I am very pleased with the contribution made by the Minister of Health, who really put this in place: that we can have different starting points also with regard to our religious faith, and that we can come to different conclusions in, for example, a matter like this. But then there are some, even in this debate, who think you can't. And that's what I think is quite problematic. I see – with my starting point – this technology as a gift from God to mankind, while one can get the impression that some, including in this room, mean the opposite. It's very difficult for me personally to understand. There has been some discussion about whether SV has done a complete turnaround or not on this issue, and it is certainly not that easy to analyse. This cryptic note that they are in with the government parties can be understood as all ways, but is a bad cover for what is well the starting point for this remark, namely, contact between the government parties and the SV to try to get pretty completely out of this debate. That's what's the world of reality. This includes, among other things: We in the Progress Party have been criticised because this should be a matter of urgency; this should not be carried out in the usual way when making or amending legislative proposals. We've never said that, and never meant that. Of course, this should follow a normal, normal procedure. But then we also know that things that the government doesn't like, often take a very long time. It's not just about this government, it's also about past and future governments. It is therefore clarified that this bill should come as early as possible in the next period. I'm the one who makes proposals happy, and then we'll see what's really going on at the end of the seventh.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e965	This is a matter that is actually full of paradoxes. The greatest paradox is one of course when the Christian People's Party's representatives begin to talk about their own high-ranking values and rake down on the other's, or suggest that others don't have those values. Then you have to sit still and listen. It's starting to get pretty weird when the same party says the following: Yes, we should be able to use techniques that come from other countries as a result of research, among other things. in preimplantation diagnostics and research on fertilised eggs, but in Norway, no, where we find it more high value to discard the same type of surplus eggs, rather than to research them and use them in human treatment in the future. So how high is it? You use the argument that fertilized eggs are the germ of a life. Then it's funny that the same people are saying that that seed of life we're going to throw, if it's overwhelming. We're not going to use it to research techniques to treat people in the future. Being able to treat people, isn't it also high-ranking? Isn't one of the reasons why we work in this field, just that we should be able to help humanity in the future by opening up research so that we can find new techniques? Had we followed this position some years ago, it also appeared when talking about transplanting organs, and when it was about implanting implants. We must be open to the use of future techniques. It's important. So a comment to the representative, who had the word here instead, that showed that the Progress Party was busy. No, then the representative actually has to read the proposals of the Progress Party, because it opens up two things. It was not a complete evaluation of the entire Biotechnology Act to be carried out by the end of 2005, it was a proposal to open up to research on surplus fertilised eggs and limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics. It was not a complete evaluation by 2005. So there I think the representative's pay must read the proposal. And then to the Christian People's Party: when were you against everything that has to do with preimplantation diagnostics? I have not seen any suggestions that go against it. Then it becomes a little strange that the representative Osmundnes in his post here argues that the whole system of pre-implantation diagnostics is wrong, and so he stands for a vision where he himself opens up a certain use of it. This is not a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e976	In most debates in this Chamber when discussing ethical issues, we know that representatives from the Progress Party at the end of the debate, or during the debate, almost always want to point out that the Christian People's Party comes with the characteristics of other people's opinions, and that the Christian People's Party always raises its own values as the most high-ranking and ethical. I believe that if you do a review and analysis of this debate, you will see that there are three distinct characteristics of this debate. It came from the representative John I. Alvheim, where he stated that the connoisseurs who now stand on the pulpit were immature and ignorant in this field. He also used the epitome of ‘different people’. I have not heard that any other party in this debate has come up with characteristics. When discussing ethical issues, you have to accept that if you have different visions, you can get different ways of doing this. There is no one who says that one view is more high than the other, but it must nevertheless be a full respect to accept that what the Christian People's Party believes is the ethical vision we want to have. And then the other side has to be able to accept that. In fact, I had hoped that the Storting in 2005 would be the big deal that dared to say that the interaction between research and ethics was actually so challenging and so difficult that we wanted to spend a very long time at it, and that we wanted to put human dignity and human life in the centre. It's a little special that those who warn against this are actually the disabled's organizations. It's those who warn against this society, and it's also the people who go out and say they're afraid that it's going to be a sort society. What this proposal can open up for is that one should view several features as having the ability to sort by. Whenever one opens for more possibilities, one step closer to the sort society. Earlier today, I have spoken to Hanne Mathiassen, who received the Life Protection Prize this year for a fantastic commitment to the struggle for human dignity. She was worried and deeply concerned about what was going to happen in this room here today. I told her that my hope was that SV, who has given us the little hope that one would get a proper review of this, also sees that there is the possibility of turning it around. Now you had the SV national meeting about Easter times. Many of us then saw the advertisement with Severin Severen, who said there was no shame in turning around. I also hope that there will be new national meetings in SV that will allow you to come back to what you had, and that Hanne Mathiassen, the disabled organisations and others of us who have been clear in the fear of a sorting society, will see that SV goes back to what they've been doing before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e989	Hildeng’s reference to Gro Harlem Brundtland’s time as Prime Minister does not make sense, firstly because technological developments had not come to that point, and secondly because the prohibition of research on fertilised eggs both now and now has made it impossible to use preimplantation diagnostics in Norway. The question therefore concerns what the criterion should be. I perceive that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are in favour of the criterion of being a serious hereditary disease. Let me then tell you about Deborah Kent. She's blind. She says, "I base my life on the belief that blindness is a neutral trait." It causes some problems, such as: not to be able to read ordinary writing or to drive a car. But in a broader perspective, I have the impression that my life wouldn't have been better if I had a full vision. She suffers from Leber's king-in-law amaurosis, a hereditary, serious disease that causes blindness. We who can see, can't understand that she doesn't want to be like us. Is it therefore the Workers' Party and the Advance Party that accept that such as her can be sorted away, while when it comes to choosing a child with blue eyes, we all respond? Preimplantation diagnosis is discrimination when using such open criteria. A simple move, in this example of blindness, destroys the whole of man. In both preimplantation and discrimination, no one will find out the rest. People like Deborah Kent are therefore met with expectations that she will use methods to ensure that her own children do not become like herself, an expectation she even meets with her neighbors. Then she says, "I feel that I have failed when I get the irritating reminder that through my life I have not managed to change their perspective." This up-down perspective is currently becoming part of our law. I am convinced that as we move the boundaries of what are acceptable sotering criteria, we also change our view of man and what is accepted as a worthy life. This is also why the organisations of disabled people have been clear in their warnings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1004	The representative Nesvik was so kind to ask me if I have read the proposal he is co-sponsored to. The answer to that is yes. And that proposal contains a very precise deadline: no later than the end of 2005. It is relatively unusual to order legislation with such a deadline. That's what I said. And I found with satisfaction that there is no majority in the committee who want to support such an order. I also pointed out that the extended interpretation made by the representative Alvheim of the proposal behind him and the representative Nesvik, namely that it is a total revision of the law, and to change the law in all essential respects, neither is there anyone else in the Chamber, nor the Workers' Party, who supports it. I think that's a pleasure. Then you're left with an order to the Government that's relatively limited, and as at one point, about the preimplantation diagnosis, actually isn't very precise either, because it assumes that today we have a law that we don't actually have. But this is of secondary importance. What is of general importance is that the Storting has determined that legislative work in this field should be carried out in a serious way, not after jump and jump. Let me go to last, since more, among other things. The representative Hildeng, has expressed himself as if the sorting society is not a current option, has been allowed to point out that a very central player in Norwegian debate in this area over several decades, Professor Berthold Grünfeld, in posts as well as in the Evening Post as in Our Country a month ago embraced the concept of sorting societies with enthusiasm and demanded full opening for preimplantation diagnostics, with the reason that nature – or Spring Lord, if you prefer that name – does not do a good enough job in sorting out things that do not have the right to life. This is, in fact, a way of thinking about what is even present in very central premiscuous suppliers when it comes to biomedical legislation in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1015	John I. Alvheim has spoken twice in this debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1019	First to the representative Inge Wohnning: if we are to review the law in Stortinget, it is obvious and clear that we are going through the law, including foetal diagnostics, ultrasound and what it might be. When the proposal for a decision became the same, we also realized that five months would be in the shortest time to get something done, when it got that far. We are therefore in the majority position, and do not address our own proposal. So you're still teasing from the Christian People's Party, but even if you repeat one thing several times, it doesn't get any better for that reason. There is frequent talk about the sorting society in such contexts as this. Then I have a direct contact with the representative Bent Höie: would you please withdraw your statement that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have a let that scoring policy in these ethical issues? It's a pretty serious statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1033	First, I want to confirm that it is true that the Christian People's Party is part of the majority that opens up preimplantation diagnostics, but we state that it can only be done in special cases, in severe hereditary genital disease without treatment options. For us, this is difficult, because it is problematic to define what is serious hereditary disease. I think – and it is said in the debate today – that we should respect each other's position. It is quite strong by the representative Alvheim to accuse the Christian People's Party of saying that all women who take abortion are to be regarded as second-class people. There is something Christian People's Party has never said, and never will. For us, it's important that we do something for those who give birth. We also want to do something for those with disabled children, and we've done that with more large-scale messages and legislative changes. But here we can do a lot more all of them. The representative Nesvik is attacking the Christian People's Party for not wanting to research. If he heard well after during my post, that's exactly what the Christian People's Party wants. But we want to go a less problematic ethical path, namely researching adult stem cells. We've given money to it, and I think we could go together to do it, because it's less conflictful. I used the word ‘whole-turning’ about SV’s support for some elements of the Biotechnology Act. I am pleased that SV is now standing by most, and that this is not a requirement for a change ‘in all essential points’, as the representative Alvheim expressed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1042	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1045	Since the representative Alvheim repeated his very wide interpretation of what the draft decision is all about, and even claimed that this is clear to the sun, I have to say that what is clear after the course of this debate is that no one, absolutely no one, has supported Alvheim's interpretation of what the proposal is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1050	I think that one must understand the majority of you that it is a review and revision of the biotechnology law one wants, and that there are several areas that one wants revised. Among other things, the representative, Mr Ballo, pointed out two very specific areas in addition to those mentioned in the draft decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1055	A central question has been the interpretation of the comments and the suspension of the decision in relation to the order. I think, as I hear the comments, that I have to read through the debate in order to form a perfectly clear picture, as far as possible. But there is no doubt that there is talk of starting a job in this area in the next big period. I only have a couple – three corrections, so that it should not attach itself to something that is probably not right. The representative Hildeng mentioned earlier that this pre-implantation diagnostics was carried out and carried out in Gro Harlem Brundtland's reign and beyond – I do not remember exactly the year it was about. But I can tell you that as far as Norwegian health authorities are aware, preimplantation diagnostics have never been carried out under the old law. In the case of a central word related to the topic we are talking about, the word ‘sorting society’, I think it is timely to point to a central figure that Inge Wohnning pointed to, namely Berthold Grünfeld. All of us in this room know that there has been legislation that obviously has the consequence – if it wasn't for the purpose, it's a fact – that between 90 and 95 pst. of foetuses who have Down syndrome are aborted. Then, in the name of justice, we must be able to say that at least part of this image deserves, at my discretion, the term ‘sorting society’. So have we come to the end of the sorting society? I don't think that in any way we are. I think evolution in the future will make there going to be new opportunities, and I fear that a majority of the Biggest in the next period and in periods thereafter will further reinforce the justification for characterizing the area and our society as a sort society. It is quite clear that in these areas, individuals and we as society will have sometimes conflicting views. That doesn't mean I don't respect and understand the individuals who make decisions based on their individual situation. What is the question is whether, as a society, we should facilitate our citizens to face such alternatives, with the consequences it can have for society as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1064	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1067	There has been a debate on the interpretation of the concept of review. I used one example, that you've opened up for children to have the right to know their biological origin. But that example is not suitable for the interpretation that it is important to make changes at very many points in the law, it is an example that predictability is important. When individuals are born today that have been given this opportunity, it is important to have such a long-term perspective that, when those individuals are 18 years old, they have not changed their premises in the meantime, so they just get to know their biological origin. It is clear that it must be a point for a government, whether it is the sitting or the coming one, to pull the lines back in terms of the biotechnology law, to take along the good elements that that law has, and to continue them on the basis of the underlying principles. Among other things, there was unanimity on the purpose paragraph of the law, with which it must be appropriate to respect the intention of later revision of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1074	To the representative, Wage: It is obvious that he has had problems not only with reading but also with the interpretation of the debate that has been here today. When it is possible to claim that the proposals of the Progress Party will not be met in any way, it is interesting to follow up on the two specific points raised in the proposal for a decision of the Committee: ‘The Government requests the submission by the Government of proposals for revised biotechnology law and, in this context, open to limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics and research on surplus fertilised eggs.’ This is a very clear and clear order, so at least the Minister of Health can't interpret himself out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1086	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2759]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1104	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2759]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1120	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2759]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1136	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that 5 replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1145	This case concerns the application for asylum for Iraqis who have been resident in the country under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act. These are the so-called MUFs that this case is about. SV asks for a regulation to be drawn up in which the emphasis is placed on residence in the state, in order to assess whether there is a particular connection with the state. The majority of the Committee does not wish to comply with the proposal of the representatives of the SV. The government parties stand together with the Progress Party and the Workers' Party in all respects. The Progress Party also has its own proposal, but I expect the representative of the Progress Party to explain this in its contribution. I expect the representatives of the other parties to explain their views. In the right, a humane and regulated immigration policy is important. Norway shall continue to accept people who comply with the asylum requirements. Norway should also provide people who need all the necessary protection for their stay in our country. We will continue to accept refugees through the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. I'm glad to say that in these four years we have been pursuing a consistent policy. The government here has received support from a great many of its proposals in the field of immigration. Immigration policy too will necessarily need to be adjusted in line with the needs and challenges facing society at all times. In a globalized world, wars and conflicts in other countries will affect us more than ever. The escape flows have been present for periods of time. I would like to highlight the work done by the Government, both to receive refugees and to treat them as well as possible and with dignity, and also to give as many refugees as possible the opportunity to return home when the conditions in the home country indicate that repatriation is safe. The matter we are about to deal with now needs to be seen in this perspective. Accepted immigration policy requires decisions to be predictable and consistent. The 2,000 Iraqi Kurds who arrived in 2000 and 2001 were granted a temporary residence permit without the right to family reunification or residence permits in Norway. They got an individual and thorough assessment. It was concluded that they were not refugees or were entitled to asylum. The provisional authorisation was granted because it was not possible to force the Iraqi group to return. However, it must be said that there have been no practical obstacles to their voluntary return to Iraq. I am aware that the group has not wanted to comply with legal decisions, and will state that I believe it would be unfortunate if such behaviour were rewarded. In addition, it must be said that under the existing legislation, an overall assessment of the existence of strong human considerations which would lead to the presence of individual Iraqis in Norway will continue. The Ministry has also sent out at the hearing a proposal to give Iraqis who have previously been temporarily authorised a special opportunity to apply for an ordinary work permit in Norway. This is both a response to the group and a recognition that Iraqis with permanent jobs meet the need for labour that our country needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1166	The aim of the SV proposal is to provide Iraqi Kurds who previously had a temporary and limited work and residence permit with a new assessment with a view to giving everyone in this group a stay in Norway. The proposers believe that long-term living in the country should be given priority. The working party believes that it is right to start with the beginning of this matter when we are going to assess it. The group came in 2000 and 2001. 2069 persons were granted a temporary residence permit without the right to family reunification or residence permit. It was an exceptional decision, with limited rights. The Labour Party has concluded that we will oppose the proposal for SV. The reason for this is that everyone who came received an individual assessment when they applied for asylum in Norway after coming here, but both the UDI and the Board of Appeal concluded that there was no need for protection under the UN Convention on Refugees, and that they were neither refugees nor had the right to asylum in Norway. The second important point in our political assessment is the basis on which the Kurdish Iraqis were granted temporary residence permits. The working party disagrees with SV that the group that arrived at the end of the 1990s came as refugees without the possibility of returning when they were given collective protection. This is not in line with the facts, which is that, after an overall assessment, the Government granted temporary residence permits under very special conditions, because at that time it was not possible to return to Iraq by force. As a result, temporary authorisations of one year's duration were granted in 2000 and 2001. That the group has been here for four years and has gradually become associated with the kingdom, we do not disagree. But it's not as easy to agree that it's supposed to be the basis for giving a collective stay to everyone. In that case, we would grant permanent permits to a group of people because they did not want to comply with legal decisions. The Labour Party believes that non-cooperation and willingness to comply with obligations should not be rewarded. And what kind of justice or fair society does such a decision make? What about all those who have applied and received a rejection, who have complied with it and have left the country, because they have accepted the decision and Norwegian law and law? We must be extremely careful not to undermine regulated immigration and the credibility of our asylum institution. We also need to draw attention to the last letter received from the Council of State dated 1 June that the cooperation between the Iraqi Embassy in Stockholm and the police is good, and that the police now assume that necessary travel documents can be issued to a large extent where the police can provide sufficient evidence as a basis for secure identification. In other words, return can be carried out to a significantly greater extent than before. In addition to this, the Council of State has sent out for consultation a regulation which will also allow you to obtain work permits and continue to live in this country, if you have a job today and can support yourself. Therefore, the Labour Party supports the majority position in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1185	I think that is the basis for asking the proposers whether they have assessed the impact of such a proposal if it should be given a majority. This group came to Norway in 2000 and 2001. We are now in 2005. We get almost weekly feedback to the Stortinget about people who are in reception and who have refugee status, who have been in Norway for longer than this group here. If it's the case that we're now going to open up special treatment for this group, it will lead to a change in practice, and that is, we have to give automatic residence to hundreds, maybe several thousand others who are in similar situations. It's the Progress Party against it. Then I would also be allowed to say carefully that the reason we are up in this situation, and the reason for promoting this type of proposal, is essentially the immigration policy and the integration policy that has been pursued in Norway. There has also been the involvement of the proposers. I just wanted to mention that too. This is of course the case, as also the representative Eye pointed out: we cannot change the practice of our immigration policy so that there are indications of a premium in relation to giving residence and other status in Norway, when we know that some do not follow up what is regulated by law. In fact, we in the Progress Party have tried in this setting to approach ourselves and get a majority for another practice, where it may be possible to consider giving residence to some, but on the basis that individual people express an effort in relation to learning the language, showing willingness to take action in relation to integration, etc. This is in the Progress Party's proposal now. It is clear that after so many years in Norway, perhaps one should believe and expect that this group of people – when the SV and others have given them hopes, false hopes – had used some resources to integrate into the Norwegian community. There's a little bit of focus on it. I'm not going to express myself in general about everyone in this group, but we know that many in the group we're talking about here have not shown the greatest interest in integrating into Norwegian society. I have nothing more to add to the debate, other than that I want to promote the proposal in the vote behind by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1200	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1203	I believe this case is about a major wrong that has been committed and that we had the opportunity to rectify again through a different decision in the main hall. This is an injustice against a large group of people fleeing from an area that has been haunted by dictators, repression, human rights violations, the use of chemical weapons and systematic repression of one population, namely the Kurds. I find it a little disturbing to hear the representative Per Sandberg stand here and talk about this group of people who have thus fled from an area where conditions were such that the Progress Party stood in the first row and said: The man who rules this country – that is Saddam Hussein – is so despotic that we have to go to war in violation of the rules of the world society to get him removed. Per Sandberg now says that it probably wasn't so bad there that they had to be on the run from Iraq, and that these people were actually happier. Ever since they arrived in 1998 and 1999, the 2069 who later stayed temporarily in 2001 and 2002, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has forcibly advised against returning to the area. That's why we believe the same thing as the High Commissioner has said, namely that you have to be very careful just to give temporary residence to people who are on the run. At some point it has to be converted into a permanent stay, if you are not able to return people. And when the United Nations says we're not going to force people back to Iraq, I think we have to cut through at one point and say, "Now the people are going to be, now the temporary has been long enough, now it's time to put their feet down." I think there is reason to recall that, in its hearing opinion on a proposal from the Government that it should not be taken into account that this group had been in the country for a long time, the following said: ‘Our view in principle is that the very special circumstances associated with the long-term stay of this demarcated group in Norway are conducive to humanitarian concessions in far more cases than the Ministry’s proposal suggests. We state that it is not our opinion that all of these matters should be granted on a general basis, but that they should normally be subject to individual treatment on each case. In the individual assessments, matters which, inter alia, remain qualifying as to the identity and criminality which could lead to expulsion will be given emphasis on granting.’» The point was that the foreign authorities – i.e. Erna Solberg's professional authorities – felt that these people should be granted far more than what this is provided for. That was the background. When a proposal was made and we now have a regulation that came into force on 15 March this year, which says that people have been in the country for a long time for temporary stay, not to be given weight, we thought it was a great wrong. You had to put your foot down. That is why we promoted this proposal. I believe that what has been done in this matter, namely to give room for people who have work to stay, is to introduce a completely new principle in refugee policy – a principle that Erna Solberg has voiced in many debates that SV has previously proposed to use. We believe it is entirely wrong that an entire group who initially applied for the status of refugees, who have not been able to return to their territory, and who we have not been able to return, should be redefined from being a job seeker to be a job seeker, that only the group of people who have been employed should become, and that all those who may be ill, who have not received a job, who have been out of work because they have lost their job, should not be allowed to stay. It's a way of conducting policies that, in my opinion, are hearty, and that I am stunned that the Christian People's Party can be involved. Remember that municipalities will not receive integration grants for this group, and they will not be provided with a scheme for integration. I believe that this is a slightly forward-looking policy, which at least is not directed towards the weakest part of this group. I have stopped being disappointed that Councillor Erna Solberg is not exactly a champion of reasonableness in refugee policy. But I have to say that I am particularly disappointed with the Left and Christian People's Party, which in Trondheim has called for this group to become, and with the Workers' Party, which in its new programme has said that one must have the opportunity to reconsider matters. [[President clubs]] This case has been such a kind of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1227	Then it just remains to be taken up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1230	I address the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1235	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1238	2 069 Iraqi Kurds were temporarily suspended without right to family reunification or settlement in Norway in 2001. Returning to Iraq has sometimes been impossible. The UN has warned against involuntary return. Returning to Iraq can also be difficult in the future. The centre party believes that SV through Document No. 8:65 has taken a commendable initiative. We raised the question of a closer assessment of the future of this group in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 21 for 2003-2004 on management conditions in the foreign field. The time the requested majority tried to do nothing. Later, the department has changed its mind. The ministry has acknowledged that this group we're talking about here has been bidding here for over four years. Many of them have been employed, have been trained, and have been associated with Norway. Therefore, there is now a regulation on listening that gives those who have work, the ability to search for work and refreshes. That's good so far. But the centre party believes that everyone in this group should be given a right to an individual assessment of his case again. We think there's a reason to ask questions about this sorting. Perhaps some of those who don't have a job are the ones who need security around their everyday life and around the future. At a time when there is so much focus on integration, there is no doubt that one would have a much greater opportunity to do so, which would be an advantage both for central and local government powers and for individuals of this debt, because at that time the municipalities had received integration grants and could organise for the introduction program. For a while, the Minister of Human Rights from Northern Iraq was here on the Stortinget and met representatives from several parties. He stressed how difficult it was for those who did not return voluntarily themselves, but also for those who have returned voluntarily and who are involved in building up that part of their country. And so the number is less now. The centre lot emphasizes what has been said here in the setting that one should be careful in relation to temporary suspension. The emphasis has been on both international and national, in theory and practice, a great deal of restraint with the use of temporary detention. A directive from the EU also underlines this, i.e. the temporary suspension of liabilities in crisis situations in mass flow situations. We are some of the things that were done in 2001, but it's very clear that it has a commitment to a group that has been bidding here for at least four years. We also stress that the proposal put forward by SV today is in line with a proposal recommended by the Department's own professional authority, the UDI. So we're going to support SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1256	Just a few short notes. I am pleased that the majority in the committee does not agree with the proposal. I would also like to stress that it is part of the justification for the proposal that is completely incorrect, and that is on very central points. Everyone in the group we are talking about here received an individual and thorough assessment when they sought asylum in Norway. The reason they remain in Norway is that they do not want to comply with legally adopted decisions. If the proposal had been given a majority, there would have been a reward for a lack of cooperation and a lack of willingness to comply with valid decisions. Then I want to comment on a few things that have been said in the debate. Firstly, I believe that the representative Heikki Holmås must have a different view of the protection situation in Northern Iraq than all the professional authorities who have dealt with these matters have, and the department has. The main essence of his contribution was that he believes that there is a need for protection and that there has been a need for protection. So it's decided by the authorities that evaluated this. It is also relatively well documented, as we know that many with Norwegian travel documents, during the period under discussion, actually travelled back across the border to Northern Iraq and stayed there for periods – some more known than others. There are also errors as it is perceived that if this proposal had been adopted, integration grants would have been paid. Because it is important to be aware that this group was moved into the municipalities, and integration grants have been paid for the main gravity of this group almost all the time, so that any permanent condition, if given a residence permit, would not have triggered new integration grants as such. So that's an argument that, in itself, has nothing to do with this case. I fully agree that it is not necessarily a hundred percent logical that I have chosen to make a regulation that we have consulted. The deadline for the hearing was 26 May. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the But I think of respect for the Storting that we should not have allowed the regulation to come into force until the Storting had completed this matter, even though the suspension was in place and we knew that we had support for what we were doing. But it's not logical in itself that we've done it. Because it is absolutely right that I am concerned that the asylum institute should not become a labour immigration institute. I have therefore pointed out in many discussions, including: to the representative Meltveit Kleppa, that every time there is a case about people who are at work, but who are to be sent out and do not have a need for protection, we cannot just give them permission over the table. What's unique and special about this group, of course, is that they have a very special history of what permits they originally had. It causes this to have a limited and much less infectious effect in this situation. We also lowered the requirements in the draft consultation we had, as to what kind of jobs you need to have in order to be able to get a work permit. I think it's an attempt to find a pragmatic solution to that. But I'm a little surprised that we're doing it in this case, at the same time leading to that in general we should be able to do it, because it's a very special arrangement. And when I meet for once, among other things, the representative of Meltveit Kleppa in many individual cases seemed important, I am told by the representative Holmås that we are hearty. We're not. We're actually pretty mild in this context. We have now, as we have also written to Stortinget, started with some coercive transports of some individuals. The police report that they are now starting to have good cooperation. The speed with which we can get on with the major missions of people who are now illegally present is still unclear, but gradually Iraq is also receiving people who are being forced to do so. We have chosen – and the police have chosen – as priority No. 1 for the dispatch of the country those who also have criminal convictions, in line with the priority rules we have established in the foreign administration, that, among other things. criminal priority is given to expeditious deportation and expeditious processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1275	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1278	The Labour Party agrees with the Council of State on this matter, but we cannot imagine that it is a problem that many of the Iraqi Kurds we are talking about today have been here for a long time. In a letter of 6 June this year, the Council of State indicates that there are now changes in return. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State confirm that there is now good reason to believe that the cooperation between the Iraqi Embassy in Stockholm and the police will deliver results?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1287	Yes, it is true that better cooperation is reported by the police and that some forced returns have been made. It assumes that it is possible to provide documentation on personal data which also means that the Iraqi Embassy issues documents. I want to be so honest with Stortinget to say that there is enough in this group a lot of double identities that sometimes appear, as we have also seen in some issues in the media, where it turns out that it may take some time to clear up in relation to the identity previously stated in the matters that have been dealt with in the foreign administration, because there have been different identities that have been on the table. But we feel that cooperation is getting better. The situation in Northern Iraq is still good and stable. There are some areas where there are problems, of course, but this is also the assessment made by the Foreign Administration in the individual assessment of the need for protection or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1296	I actually thought there was something interesting in what the Council of State now said in its reply. But the starting point for my reply was what the Council of State said in relation to using the asylum institute to grant work permits. I believe that the Council of State met itself a little at the door here, because the Council of State and the Government themselves have opened up to that kind of practice in relation to this group. I would like to get the Council of State to elaborate on what makes it especially about opening up these in some cases to work permits. At the same time, I want to challenge the Council of State in terms of what was said last round here in terms of the conditions in Northern Iraq. Is it so that we can start retransmissions even by coercion, and are the conditions at the ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1305	What is special about this group is that it is a limited group that can in some way be isolated from the effects on others, and that it will therefore not have the effect that the asylum institution will become a jobseeker's institute in the future by making this single operation linked to this group. But there is no doubt that this is also problematic in relation to the principles. But sometimes it's that you get to draw a line, and then you have to figure out how to find a solution that's good and that creates good results. So it's a little interesting that what must be the best indication of what is proposed by the Progress Party is that those who are well integrated are allowed to stay. Employment is perhaps the simplest example of being integrated into our society in some way and being able to implement it. In the final analysis, just in the case of forced return, we've been given someone. It is not that we have an agreement that airports will open up too much return, but the police report that they believe that they can implement several of them in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1312	For me, it is central in this case that some people have come to Norway as asylum seekers for a period when it has not been possible to return them, because the UN recommendations have been not to return people involuntarily. They have been in the country for a long time, some of them are well integrated here, and some of them have had jobs and have lost them because they have lost their work permit, among other things. Several of those who are here now are at risk of not even having a temporary work permit during the period you need to work, in order to be allowed to stay. Then the basic question is left to the Council of State: does the Council of State mean that once you have given temporary residence to people, and if the UN still does not recommend involuntary return, you can never put your foot down and say, OK, now it's actually the way to stay? This is also about many children who are at these receptions now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1319	One of the main political divisions currently in the policy on asylum and immigration in Norway is between the SV and the Central Party, on the one hand, and the other parties on the other. The SV and the Central Party believe that, through a bunch of single forms of amnesty, rules are to be implemented which mean that if you only last long enough in Norway and do not cooperate, you will be allowed to stay. These are the individual issues for which Heikki Holmås is a representative, and he is constantly addressing issues about individual groups – whether adults or children – and he has previously also had legislative proposals to introduce those kinds of rules. It would completely undermine the institution of asylum as an institution of protection and open it up as an institution of immigration because we are unable to return compulsorily. When you gave this one-year, temporary permit to stay without the right to family reunification, there was an experiment that I don't think any government is going to do again, because there was no good solution. It's better to give up. But it has not been that it has not been possible to go home in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1330	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1335	I'm not going to spend more time than the time of a line. But I think it is to burden the Council of State too much to take a line at the Council of State when it is the post of the representative Heikki Holmås I would like to comment, for I think it was a bit funny. One thing is that Heikki Holmås places responsibility for the war against Iraq in the hands of the Progress Party in the Norwegian Great Plain. I'll accept that. But what Heikki Holmås forgets in relation to his rhetoric and his game for the gallery, in the correct sense of the word, is that Saddam is now removed. Then it's opened up that there can be a little more democratic relationships, and so it's also easier for these people to return. So if Heikki Holmås wanted to criticize the Progress Party to support the war against Iraq, then I would say that it has helped – hopefully – to create conditions in Iraq and Northern Iraq that make it better to live in Iraq and return to Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1344	There are two things I want to comment on in this case. Firstly, I have never used the word "amnesty," and I mean that. For me, it is important to distinguish between giving a general amnesty and making a review, in the light of what the Directorate for Foreign Affairs says. If a review is carried out, of course, it is important to focus on what is going on in crime, on other things that go on whether you are a child, for example. – which I believe is important to emphasise throughout this matter. It is a well-known fact that there is a fundamental distinction between those people in this room who think that there should be room for review in some cases, and those who think there should be no room for it. Over to Per Sandberg: I do not know if Per Sandberg is going along with the newspapers and the news, and I do not know if he sees it as everyone else who comes with it sees, namely that there are still dramatic amounts of violence going on throughout Iraq. Bombs are being bombed all over Iraq, more concentrated somewhere. It cannot be said in any way that there is peace in Iraq. My basic argument in this case is that when people are on the run, and we see that the UN recommendations are that people should not be returned involuntarily, then there must be something that we place on, and that we consider when we are going to make a decision on whether or not to get people to stay in this country. If not, you will find yourself in a situation where people like the UN recommend that we not be forced to return, can stay for a long, long time in Norwegian asylum recipients and stay in Norway. This is where the Labour Party has made a change in course at its national meeting, I am very pleased. But I'm very sorry that it doesn't come out in this case, because here I think it would really be possible to make a different decision than the majority of people do today. I'm disappointed in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1356	The representative Heikki Holmås says he does not say "amnesty". I get that, because that would have been very clarifying for people in terms of understanding what the consequences are. But in any debate I take part in on the question of unresectable asylum seekers or others, he asks me the following rhetorical question: Does the Council not believe that there is a limit to how long people we cannot return can stay in this country without being allowed to stay? That's a loaded question. In substance, if you answer yes, it is the same as giving an amnesty – that as long as you can counter a return, as long as you do not cooperate on identity with Norwegian authorities, and as long as you do not do the enforcement of a forced release, you can actually stay here at some point. The gain, after the years that the representative Heikki Holmås had to put up in the end – to answer his own rhetorical question in all of these debates – would have been the limit to where there would always have been an amnesty. When I use the word "amnesty," it is because I draw out what is actually the rhetoric of the representative Heikki Holmås. Last year’s “repaired” Storting said this with some large majority of people saying clearly whether a one-off decision was taken, that children who had been in reception for three years, and of which the main weight for the longest time had been dealt with their cases, would receive a humane treatment, which was in fact a recipe for everyone to stay. The criticism of the few who have not received a stay has shown that it was the intention of the representative Heikki Holmås. Now, for the last two days, he's started a debate again, one year later, because there's going to be new stuff like that. That means that Heikki Holmås believes that families with children should be given amnesty after three years. Then the big question is, where does the limit in terms of amnesty go for the others, i.e. adults, as non-children's families in SV's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1370	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1373	I have to admit that I am a little provoked when the Council of State comes with this, and there are two reasons for that. One is that in connection with the decision we made one year ago, where there has never been any doubt that I and SV believe that it should be such that children should not stay longer than three years in reception, we must cut through with children if we cannot get a forced return. We believe that because children should not be subject to the choice of their parents. They shall not be forced to suffer for their parents' choices. I think that's right in relation to the Children's Convention. But what we decided in the same connection was that Councillor Erna Solberg would come back to Stortinget with a case in which she would review how she intended to ensure that we did not end up in similar situations later. So State Councillor Erna Solberg called me a liar earlier today on TV 2 because I said this was not followed up. That review we have never received, and the Council of State has even said that she has no intention either of getting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1380	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2759]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1398	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2760]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1417	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2760]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1425	Then we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1432	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the air traffic control movement process to Bodø and to bring the matter back to the Stortinget for a new treatment as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1467	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1482	During the debate, Bent Höie has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:64 [[2004-2005]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1507	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 2 June 2005: ‘The government is asking the Government to draw up an overall spatial plan for the areas allocated to health businesses and to submit this plan to the Stortinget in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2006.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1523	The watering system is not functioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1530	I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1537	It is such that when we refer to proposals from Odelstinget, the President reads out who is the proposer. In that case, it is normal for all those who are not in the same party as the proposer to vote against, unless otherwise stated by explanations of vote. But there's something strange about the wetting plant, it's said, so we're taking the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1568	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider granting the residence permit, which may form the basis for the residence permit, depending on the degree of integration based on facts such as habit, Norwegian knowledge and adaptability to the Norwegian society, including the ability to participate in the labour market and to cope without social support schemes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1592	The proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a regulation under which, when assessing the application for asylum from Iraqis who have been authorised under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Act, it may: the second paragraph of Section 21 of the Regulation, limited by the seventh paragraph, shall be given priority to residence in the Kingdom after such authorisation has been granted in assessing whether there is a specific link with the Kingdom under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act. Such assessment shall be granted to all persons who were granted a temporary and limited residence permit and who have since not been granted asylum or stay on a humanitarian basis, for the purpose of being able, as a general rule, to obtain such residence after an individual overall assessment.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1619	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 31 May 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to reduce the fee on application for citizenship on the basis of self-cost.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09.ana.ud2088e1637	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 31 May 2005: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a voluntary ceremony in the award of new citizenship without a vow of allegiance.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, so the President expects the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
