ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e62	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Finn Martin Vallersnes, Anne Berit Andersen and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes, Anne Berit Andersen and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve are unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative Per Erik Monsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e69	On behalf of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the rules on value added tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e74	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e101	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party and Right 30 minutes each, Progress Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes and the Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e112	The cancellation message we are about to deal with today is a follow-up to the previous gas message and the political signals given in its treatment. Already in the spring of 2000, the Stortinget decided to ask for an overall strategy for the use of gas in Norway, but in the years that have passed, unfortunately little has happened in this area, at least by Stortinget. The gas message we are now examining deals with the Government's policy for increasing investment in environmentally friendly gas power technology, alternative solutions for the supply of gas to consumers, different forms of financing infrastructure with State participation and the organisation of a Norwegian-Swedish mandatory renewable energy certificate market. In addition, document No. 8:9 for 2003-2004 by the Workers’ Party on the development of strategies to help the Norwegian gas treatment industry and petrochemical industry access to raw materials. The Communication states that an important element of the Government’s energy policy is to invest in gas power plants with CO2 management, both to ensure energy supply and to achieve the objectives of climate policy. The desire for a technological breakthrough in CO2 management will, in the Government’s view, open up completely different possibilities for gas use in Norway as well as making a significant contribution to global environmental development. The government has made a significant effort to accelerate technology development in this area, with the clear aim of quickly bringing full scale gas power plants into place with CO2 management. A fund of DKK 2 billion has been set up to support research and development in this area, and we have recently set up Gassnova to support state innovation activities and support pilot plants and technology development for CO2 management projects. In addition, the government aims to use CO2 as pressure aid to increase oil extraction on the continental shelf. From the Progress Party we will warn against this one-sided focus on CO2 management, which we have seen going beyond our security of supply on electricity. We believe that we need to run parallel to security of supply and technology development. Security of supply must be resolved with today's technology, while, of course, new solutions must be explored to meet tomorrow's needs. Whether you like it or not, it is an undeniable fact that it will take many years before you have technology for CO2 management that is economically sound and can be put into production. There is little help in the environmental movement and some political parties later to believe that this is in place today. I would like to refer to the warnings from the perhaps top expert we have in the field, Kjell Bendiksen from the Institute of Energy Technology, who was also the head of the Gas Technology Committee. In the committee hearings he confirmed once again that it would take many years before such technology was commercial, while at the same time he warned against building energy dinosaurs, as he called it, gas power plants based on CO2 management technology that might have to be subsidized for 20-30 years in the future. I find reason to recall the Storting decision of 9 March 2000, on similar emission requirements in the EEA area. This means that if the Norwegian authorities impose additional requirements, the costs of such requirements will have to be borne by the authorities. So CO2 as a pressure support. The Progress Party will, of course, be in favour of measures that will increase the use of our oil reserves. However, it must be a clear premise that oil companies themselves have to decide whether to use CO2 or other instruments to improve their use of resources for economic reasons. To facilitate the increased use of gas in Norway, it is essential to find solutions that bring gas resources to the consumer. The Government claims that it sets out a policy that is gradually aimed at the development of natural gas infrastructure, and has been used by the NVE to calculate gas transport costs in general, as well as to assess a variety of alternatives for infrastructure and transport. The government's conclusions are largely that there is no sound economy in the construction of gas pipelines, and until a market is built up, for example, other solutions, such as ships, need to be put into place. It's amazing what you don't get if you don't want to do anything. It is possible to calculate the profitability of almost any project if you want. At our discretion, there was no need for a new gas message to calculate the profitability or to say no once more. But this was the last result of the compromise, between the government parties and the Socialist Left Party. We were already two years ago ready to set up and facilitate the use of gas resources. At the time, the Workers' Party was involved in an effort to build gas infrastructure with state aid, but it was then. The Workers' Party has now entered into an agreement with the government parties to transfer responsibility to Statnett, or other state company, in order to enter into discussions with commercial operators in order to realise gas pipeline solutions. This seemed to be pretty good at first, but there are so many limitations to the proposal that it is almost impossible to get anything done about it. And the most important thing: it doesn't come with a single state crown – not one crown to build pipes for. It's kind of like boiling nail soup without even having the nail. If Statnett is given responsibility, we know that with the dividend policy to which the company is exposed, unfortunately there is not much to gas pipes there either. The Progress Party also promotes proposals to give a State company, together with commercial actors, responsibility for achieving the development of gas pipelines together with industry. However, we do not introduce the same assumptions and limitations into the proposal, which, for example, will endanger pipes in Trondheimsfjord, and which push a pipe to Mongstad into the blue. And most importantly, we're opening up to add up to 5 billion kroner to the company that's going to build infrastructure. But it unfortunately seems that the majority in this room think it is possible to build infrastructure without money. In our view, the construction of gas infrastructure and pipelines must be seen as a means of facilitating and building society. There were clear signals at the hearing about how important this was to further develop our industrial value creation. I want to refer to Lights in Rogaland, which is an energy company owned by the municipalities of the region. There you have invested 700-800 million at your own expense. NOK for infrastructure, without having any customers at the other end when the project was started. Already now the company sees profitability within reach. Because it's now the way to make an item available, the customers and the provision come. Of course, it is the company that should assess and find out which pipeline projects it is worth investing in and which locations it is better suited to using ship transport or other solutions. However, I would point out that Grenland, Trondheimsfjorden, Mongstad and the area around Nyhamna are the most relevant areas for pipeline solutions. The most important thing is to bring the gas to the user, and therefore it must not be either – or, but both – and in terms of choice of solutions, depending, of course, on distances and quantities. We must not forget that gas is not just an energy source, but that gas is also used as raw material in many contexts. It is essential that the environments we have developed in Norway, which are involved in the gas treatment and petrochemical industries, have access to raw materials. Document No 8:9, promoted by four representatives from the Workers' Party, address this issue and underline the importance of raw material access. However, during the Committee's examination, it was strange that the Workers' Party was hoping for its own proposal. On page 14 of the Innst. S No 135 you can now read that it is only the Progress Party that joins the goal. We are promoting proposals in line with this, after recording, among other things. from LO. In the Communication, the Government has also reported on the work to date in facilitating a Norwegian-Swedish compulsory certificate market. The plan was to get a proposition for treatment in the spring session, so this could be going from 1 January 2006. However, delays on the Swedish side have resulted in a delay of at least one year. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e176	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e181	The representative said it's amazing what you don't get when you don't want to, and I take note of that. This is a big message, it's not a budget proposition. I'm surprised that the Progress Party now has 5 billion dollars for a state company, while in the budgetary agreement with the Government they didn't have one dollar. What's going on? Why is it that the Progress Party is constantly marking policies instead of creating policies? The party chooses to sit on the sideline instead of contributing to the creation of a majority that passes on to society. It is true that the Workers' Party has proposed money for gas power development. The party of progress has voted against. But now they've changed their mind. Is it to attract the voters, or is it to pursue a policy leading the country forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e186	It is wrong that the Progress Party has changed its mind on this matter. We proposed a proposal that was almost identical to this, two years ago. Then the Workers' Party stood with us, not to mention a smaller amount, but then we stood loaded and broken and had the same points of view, right with slightly different approaches. So it's the Workers' Party that has changed its mind, and it's been jumping off, while we're still on the proposal we had two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e191	I registered that the representative Øyvind Waksdal in his post warned against unilaterally focusing on CO2 management. This may be the result of the fact that the Progress Party has a rather one-sided focus in climate policy, compared to the absence of man-made climate change. In a chronicle on 18 February in Dagbladet, the leaders of the Progress Party and the spokesperson for environmental policy presented the views of the Progress Party on climate change. It is clear that our knowledge is lacking, and that the uncertainty is great. What strikes me as a little bit strange is that the Progress Party in its alternative budgets has cut $70 million in the last four years. kr in climate research. So my question to the representative Øyvind Vaksdal is: does he think that less research gives less uncertainty? Does he think that less research gives less knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e199	Without prejudice to my remembering errors, I do not remember that we have cut off CO2 management research in the budget for the current year, for which we are associated with the Government. As far as our position on CO2 management is concerned, it is clearly not identical to that of the Socialist Left Party. We lost the ratification of the Kyoto agreement, but once we have that agreement, we want to use the mechanisms contained in that agreement so that we can make it as viable as possible for Norwegian business to remain in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e212	I would like to follow up where the representative Grethe Fossum started. With regard to the contribution of the Progress Party to finding good gas solutions, we experienced during the treatment of the first gas notification that the batch remained relatively alone and did not contribute to anything that could form a majority in order to pass this question on. Now, the case-rapporteur, Mr Vaksdal, had an excellent opportunity this time to put up a policy that allowed the Progress Party to stand behind a majority and in that way say that at least one has contributed to bringing this matter forward. Now you run a line where you stay alone again. My question to the Progress Party will then be whether it might be appropriate for the Progress Party to provide subsidiary support for the agreement that now exists between the government parties and the Workers' Party, thus at least contributing to the small step forward in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e219	It's not right, as it was said, that we were alone two years ago. Then, together with the Workers' Party, we were in both comments and suggestions, with a slightly different amount. With regard to today's proposal, we have one that is not so grossly different, but it does not contain the same assumptions and constraints, and we also have a proposal to add capital to a company. I would rather encourage Brother Yngve Rahm and the government parties to join our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e226	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e230	The Workers' Party has been a political driver for using the gas domestically. Norway has used several tens of billion dollars of pipes to export the gas to the continent, and this has been right to sell gas. But we have to have greater ambitions than just selling gas. We have all the assumptions to get more values out of our gas than just by selling it. The Labour Party believes that the public must have a responsibility in relation to the development of a modern and forward-looking industry. We are, on this basis, actually proud of the result we are discussing today. I want to spend my time going through some key points in the conciliation, but first of all I want to commend the negotiator of the government parties, Leif Frode Onarheim, and the Council of State for constructive cooperation. The working party is a result-oriented party. It was important for us to get a deal that meant that there was a majority in Stortinget. We record that other lots are more concerned with self-marking. Of course, they're free to do that. But as I see it, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the government parties have now laid the foundation stone in an industrial policy construction work. Then we just get to accept that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party continue to argue about the color of the roofstone. The results are the most important for the Workers' Party. The Workers' Party has considered that the public must have a responsibility to advance the infrastructure construction of gas. That is why it was a central point for us to have a majority in order for a state company to be given this responsibility. Through consultations and work in the Committee, Statnett pointed out itself as such. Both responsibilities and interest, as well as the fact that our neighbouring country has assigned this task to its network company, were essential for us to point to Statnet as the company that should be given this task. Gas infrastructure will be a new task for the company. In the Workers' Party we see it as natural that they attract competence both within their own ranks and from other companies with which it is natural to cooperate. Gas pipelines are, in the view of the Workers' Party, the right option in certain areas of the country where volumes provide for the safeguarding of existing industry and the development of new forward-looking industries. This does not mean that we reject the transport of gas by boat to others. In this context, I would like to refer to the assessment of the notification on the use of gas for industrial purposes, where LNG boat routes may be concerned, for example. to Eastfold. Of course, this can also be relevant for many other places in the country where large parts of the industry are located on the coast, with good ports, and there, for example. island communities have a strong need for power supply to enable the industry to develop. In this context, I would like to mention Coaches in Northern Ireland, who lack of power supply stops the industry at certain times. For too long, the gas debate in Norway has been focused on issues rather than on opportunities. The government has tried to be on the offensive verbally without success. The working party takes a very serious view of the situation in Norway regarding the power balance. This leads to high electricity prices that go beyond industry, private customers and confidence in the energy policy pursued. The agreement that has now been concluded both in the field of climate policy and on using more of our gas domestically will bring us closer to gas power stations. The government's policy has so far been a hindrance. Now we've solved the possibilities. Gas power stations will have the same framework conditions as in Europe for climate obligations. For the Workers' Party, this will lead the policy forward. But perhaps so important: through the company that is being set up, the state should be involved in facilitating the conditions if the gas volumes become high enough, and it should also ensure that the industry is now in operation. In the Workers' Party, we are technology optimists. We believe that the development of a CO2 chain where you capture the CO2 and bring it back to reinjection is best done by getting started. Henry Ford would hardly have gotten far if he had been pleased to draw cars. Only when production started, did the technology that led to today's cars also come. That's what we have to think when we're going to develop the world's best technology for CO2 management. The working party has until now been alone in proposing a volume deduction that will make it profitable to take out the extra oil that we will get with CO2 injection. We are convinced that others will come after, but it is again the Workers' Party that draws the load. Through the agreement, we have been given the impression that the Government will come back to the issue before the summer of 2005. We have also managed to open all doors to Bondevik's dream of a gas power plant with CO2 handling. In Hammerfest they have come a long way to realize such a power plant. Construction starts can soon be realized, and based on the promises both in the Sem declaration and in the message, we have to expect a sympathetic and positive treatment of the application. In the Workers' Party we are concerned with results. We are dedicated to building industry and creating values to distribute. In this context, I would like to refer to the proposal in Document No. 8:9 for 2003-2004. The proposal is supported by four workers’ party representatives. Of course, when the Workers' Party is present and attached to this protocol, it is related to the agreement we are making to put the gas into service. We still believe that one should do what is possible to ensure the supply of wet gas to industry, and we believe that this is exactly what we are now ensuring the framework by means of the agreement. We assume that what we are adopting today is a new era for the Norwegian gas industry and the petrochemical industry. Of course, if it turns out against assumption that the government does not follow up, the Workers' Party will continue to be guards. The Labour Party is engaged in the Norwegian industry. It also applies to existing industries. We assume that the presentation of green certificates respects the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry. Therefore, investments in Norway must have the same framework conditions as Swedish in the future single market. This means that the different forms of energy are treated equally in the two countries. Finally, I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the Borders environment, to the local population, to politicians and businesses. Without their total effort, I don't think we've achieved the result we've achieved today. It should be a cross of thought also for the government parties, who may not dare to submit their policies to elections for the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e285	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e288	The representative Rolf Terje Klungland has, through many debates in this Chamber, criticised the Government and me in strong order because the three conventional gas power plants that have a concession have not been developed, and because gas has not been made available for industrial purposes. Is it in order to advance the development of gas power plants in Norway that the Workers' Party and the representative of Klungland want to go to government with the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party? Can the representative of Klungland, on behalf of the red-green alternative, guarantee that industry along our coast can count on access to natural gas in its further development?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e295	It's quite strange to hear the representative Onarheim use the Socialist Left Party as a scare propaganda. I just want to make it clear that Onarheim chose SV in both climate policy and in relation to using the gas in Norway, which meant that we have had a postponement for almost four years. So to get results, they had to come to the Workers' Party. I also record that the party that may have moved most regarding the message we are dealing with today is the Socialist Left Party. They've basically been against reinjection of CO2. They have been against laying pipes, but now they accept that the gas can at least come in by boat, and that one can put the pipe to get the CO2 transported back. But it almost has to be answered by itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e308	Today, too, we are told that the representative Klungland and the Workers' Party are in favour of something that they will later vote against. This has gradually become common there in the farm. I would like to remind you of the gas power case, where they changed their position several times a day. I also want to remember the treatment of the watercourse protection plan and the double communication that took place about, for example, Nausta and the watercourses in Saudi Arabia. The Workers' Party has now also left its position on State co-financing of gas pipelines. Now the party also opposes its own proposal to secure raw materials for the gas industry. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Klungland, who himself has a background from the industry and the trade movement, whether he is comfortable with the fact that his party now totally ignores the signals of the industry and the LO both in terms of financing gas pipes and not least in terms of securing raw materials. Or do industrial workplaces mean nothing anymore to the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e315	I am very pleased that we in the Workers' Party are better at listening than the Advance Party. In fact, we have heard that the industry is very pleased with the agreement that has been reached. The Labour Party could, of course, have chosen as the Advance Party and insisted that there should not be a majority to use the gas here in the country. But we chose to take real action now to get ahead of work to secure jobs and provide new jobs. Then it is that this year the Workers' Party voted in favour of NOK 3 billion more for gas infrastructure than the Advance Party. The party voted against this just before Christmas. It's been three months. Then it has to be that maybe even the Advance Party will cook soup, but they won't cook without nails. They're just gonna cook on nails.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e322	I have to start by clarifying an open misunderstanding. SV has been a driver for many years to launch a CO2 injection project. Klungland should have brought that. Then to the contents of the article from Klungland. It made me think about Jagland. It was about foundation stones and roof tiles and a little bit of a quarter. I just want to remind the representative Klungland how it went with the Norwegian house. It's a little bit of the feeling I have when I hear the article from Klungland today – being results-oriented. What result do we have today? Well, we have something 'to do' to get a pipe both here and there - 'to do', but no result. SV does not have any support from the Labour Party to initiate a specific CO2 injection project, for example. They don't want to be on it. I have to say, I'm wondering a little bit. It has been said, "Wherever there is a will, there is a way." But here there is a great deal of will and little way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e337	I'm going to commend SV for one thing: they've been drivers of CO2 management and what goes on. What's still the problem for the Socialist Left Party is to realize that to process the CO2, to take care of the CO2, one has to use something that emits CO2. That's what the Socialist Left Party has problems with, because they won't use gas. Until now, they haven't wanted to. They have been against depositing CO2 on the seabed and have said that it is not scientifically proven that it is sustainable. They've been against pipes, because there's too much environmental interference. But now they've come to realize that at least one can pipe if there's CO2 going through it. Then I actually think that we're going to be able to sort this out, so that we can put a pipe in order to get the CO2 we're going to deal with in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e366	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e369	I am very pleased with the broad consensus expressed in the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. The parties to the Government's settlement with the Workers' Party form the basis for this agreement. Let me thank the Labour Party and Rolf Terje Klungland for a very tidy and constructive process to get to where we have come today. Our oil and gas business brings us good income. Some go into the annual budgets, and a large part goes to the Petroleum Fund. Today, however, there is little Norwegian industrial activity based on our natural gas. Several Norwegian industrial companies are currently using polluting energy sources, which can be replaced by natural gas. New industries should also be able to rely on the use of gas in production. It is therefore the Government’s objective that more enterprises can use natural gas. For most current and future coastal businesses, LNG will be the most rational based on ship-borne transport solutions. Several interesting concepts are available for ship resolution based on different sources of natural gas. For some of our industrial clusters, today's needs are so great that a solution with transmission tubes can provide safer and more reasonable solutions. However, pipe solutions require large volumes to be profitable. In addition to the direct use of natural gas in industrial processes, we have a power deficit in Norway this year at normal rainfall. Our electricity supply is mainly based on hydropower. This is a very environmentally friendly energy, but has the disadvantage that we are very vulnerable to fluctuations in rainfall. It is therefore important that we can improve our power balance with gas power and create greater certainty that Norwegian consumers, businesses and households can rely on electricity supplies. However, the combustion of gas has the disadvantage of emitting CO2. The government’s objective is therefore to allow gas power stations to develop so that CO2 can be captured and deposited or used in oil extraction. Three concessions have been granted for gas power plants based on today's best available technology, i.e.: without any requirement for CO2 cleaning. Among other things, Industrikraft Mid-Norway AS has the concession to build a conventional gas power plant, i.e. without CO2 handling, in Forest. Gas power is necessary to trigger the investment of a new paper machine at Norwegian Forest plants. To realize this, gas must be introduced into Trondheimsfjord to Forest. It is in the Sem declaration and subsequent submissions that the State will not subsidise a pipeline to a gas power plant without CO2 management. However, what can be opened up is State co-financing for possible branch pipes to Trondheim, Orkdal, Verdal and other interesting natural gas-needed landing sites, as well as co-financing if the diameter of the pipe from the Tjeldbergodden needs to be increased due to the high need for gas through the branch pipes. The project has not yet started. Furthermore, a relatively high demand for gas has been identified for the industry in Grenland. Borealis, Yara and other process industries have documented such needs. It is crucial that the volume can defend investment in transmission pipes from Kårstø to Grenland based on realistic assumptions. The need for gas has also been identified for large industrial sites in Eastfold and for the gas power plant in Kolsnes. The majority of the Committee has discussed these possibilities and asked the Ministry of Oil and Energy to give Statnett, possibly another state-owned company, in cooperation with commercial operators the task of engaging in concrete discussions with the industry in Grenland and Trøndelag with a view to achieving gas transport pipelines. It is important that both the investigation and the conclusion of such assessments are transparent so that other landing sites with high industrial gas requirements can be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. A clear premise of today’s decision-making proposal is that users, industry, document needs, are willing to participate in both concept development and funding and commit to volume. Statnet has been mentioned as a current possibility to assess this, including: because it is or may be relevant to a gas power plant at the end of a pipeline. The significant volume of a gas power plant could take off the gas may prove to be a prerequisite for achieving good profitability in a gas pipeline to Grenland. State networks, which are responsible for the development of transmission networks from surplus areas of electricity to deficit areas, may assess the need for and profitability of gas power generation in deficit areas based on transmission lines in order to thereby save transmission networks. The flow of gas through pipes to deficit areas will normally have less energy losses than the transmission of current via high voltage cables over long distances. However, other companies may also be able to make such assessments. Norwegian industry depends on good framework conditions for its activities. Natural gas can be both a safe and environmentally friendly energy source and a necessary raw material in the processes. Framework conditions include infrastructure as an important part. The government’s desire to have gas transmission to different locations in Norway is therefore very welcome. In the present position, the Committee also points to the Government's commitment to achieving key objectives of climate policy. In order to meet the requirements of the Kyoto Agreement, we need to significantly reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. Although the narrow quota system decided upon in Norway and the Kyoto Agreement instruments can provide opportunities, the Government is investing considerable resources in research and development of new technologies to develop CO2 management. The Committee refers to the Oil Directorate’s study on these issues and asks the Government to explain how and to what extent the whole CO2 chain can be captured and exploited. Although purely technical matters are clarified, it is important to find economically acceptable solutions. The initiative shows that the Government attaches great importance to the environmental aspects of our petroleum activities, contrary to the rhetoric that, among other things, The Socialist Left Party is still using. Another measure aimed at increasing the speed of the development of new renewable energy is the establishment of a mandatory certificate market. Manufacturers of new renewable energy will receive certificates that they can sell to consumers, which are again obliged to purchase a certain proportion of certificates in relation to their electricity consumption. New renewable energy producers will thus receive both revenues through the sale of certificates and through the sale of electricity on the power market. This will make it far more profitable to invest in power generation based on new renewable energy sources. Unfortunately, the date of entry into force of such a compulsory certificate market must be postponed. The reason is that the Stortinget wanted a single Norwegian/Swedish market, which is wider than a purely national market. Unfortunately, Sweden has been delayed in its preparation so that the certificate market cannot be launched before 1 January 2007. Such a postponement makes it important and necessary to confirm to developers of new renewable energy that all those who have started such a development after 1 January 2004 will be able to participate in the programme. The government's adding up to it. As the committee process has been in this matter, there is not so much disagreement about the main conclusions. Nevertheless, it is surprising to see the comments of the three parties who want to form a new government. The Socialist Left Party has a number of proposals to stop the three gas power stations that already have a concession, while the Workers' Party is a strong driver for their construction. SV will introduce a new CO2 tax on the use of gas for energy purposes and also have several other proposals that are in contrast to the Labour Party's policy. That cooperation won't be easy. The Norwegian industry requires more than anything else is predictability and stable framework conditions. While today's government has a clear policy with robust compromises, the option with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party represents an alternative that cracks in all directions in key areas of industry. In the case we are discussing today, the Labour Party has concluded an agreement with the Government Parties on the increased use of gas for domestic value creation, while the Socialist Left Party will introduce new taxes, which will eliminate the bones under the same value creation. The working party wants more gas, while SV prefers not to use gas for energy production at all. Despite today's happy compromise, there is therefore cause for concern about the political uncertainty that is still present as regards the use of gas as well as other framework conditions for our business. Nevertheless, today's debate is important, and the decisions taken today can give rise to considerable optimism in industry. Access to natural gas can be the vitamin injection that many places in the country may need, and support new industrial developments. However, the basis for State participation in natural gas infrastructure must be that it becomes a fissure layer with industry and municipalities, so that we ensure that companies and local communities also have great faith in the projects. We have to avoid new industrial scandals, as we have unfortunately seen too many of them in the past. Therefore, the premises for State involvement are so important, as they are described in the current position of the Energy and Environment Committee. The joy is that industry and other actors have taken seriously the treatment of the previous gas notification. I also agree with the representative of Klungland that favours the environment in Grenland, who has stood on and tried to document the great potential of a pipeline there. This commitment and willingness to participate have been essential to the compromise we have reached today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e439	One should listen to the Right when they talk about there being problematic negotiations in the Government. I just want to remind the representative Onarheim that he is actually sitting with both the Christian People's Party and the Left in government, so this with questions in relation to gas power stations he should definitely be okay with. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we make it clear that this company, which is now being commissioned to be involved in the construction of gas infrastructure, will continue to be active in the future in relation to infrastructure construction. So the question that I would like to answer from the representative of Onarheim is: is the company that is now being entrusted with the construction of gas infrastructure in Norway to be a company that is going to continue, or do the government parties view this as a task that is not to be continued?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e446	The question asked by the representative of Klungland may give rise to many reflections. Basically, we ask the Government to give Statnett or another state company the task of going into concrete discussions. It means that it is too early to determine whether such a company should also have a long-term involvement in this process. This, I think, is a typical case where the way becomes when a goes. It is also worth noting that in the case of relevant landing sites other than Grenland and Skogn, other actors may be involved. This is therefore a question to which you have to come back, but initially you have to consider this as a project.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e455	When the Progress Party two years ago proposed a state company to be responsible for the assessment and co-financing of gas pipes, the representative Onarheim was out in the media and commended this proposal. When the proposal was discussed in Stortinget, however, the support from Onarheim and Right was gone as dew for the sun. Now we hear once again the representative Onarheim and Right talk warmly about a state company that will be responsible for the construction of infrastructure, and then Onarheim and Right later today will vote against adding capital to this company. I know that the representative Onarheim has a long experience in business, and I want to ask him if he believes that it is possible to build gas pipes in Norway only using words and completely without capital, and in case – how many meters of pipes can you get too beautiful words and beautiful promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e462	It's probably true that I've been a bigger driver in some of these processes than others in the government constellation. I won't hide that for a moment. On the other hand, I have always been very concerned about – and that should also be the representative of Waksdal – that without the commitment of those who are going to use this gas without any money being put in, so that they themselves have faith in it, the projects are not very good. That is why I completely disagree with the representative, Mr. Waksdal, who says that all the experience shows that only we can get the conditions right will the customers come. I would like to list all the companies that have gone bankrupt because they have had that attitude. That list would be pretty long.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e467	The representative Leif Frode Onarheim spoke about economically acceptable solutions. Now there have been some shared views as to whether this agreement is an economically acceptable solution. Today's Business wrote in the leadership position on February 22nd: ‘A business-political scandal is under way. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right agree on the state co-financing of gas pipelines from the North Sea to Grenland and in Trondheimsfjorden. It could cost taxpayers a few billion dollars." Furthermore, it was written that Røres Leif Frode Onarheim elegantly overlooks the cost-effective aspects, «is simply quite sad». There St.meld. No 47 for 2003-2004 was presented by the Government, and the Government did not recommend the agreement that has now been negotiated. What new knowledge does the Right have? What's changed? What new knowledge is apparent to the Right after the message was presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e481	I'm actually quite proud of two things. One is that I am proud on behalf of the industry and all the actors in Grenland, who have really worked so closely and well to get a good record. Besides, I'm a little proud of the Storting, who didn't jump on these plays that came out that you would put NOK 3 billion on a book or NOK 5 billion on a book, and then you'd see what it was going to do. But we've been the ones who said that this must first show that it can be profitable. We need to get all the opportunities, both to get volume and to get funding involved. I'm quite proud of that. It also means that there will be no large payments that will not be profitable in a certain period of time, some years in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e486	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e489	I start by recording the SV's suggestions and the suggestions we agree with others about. I would ask that proposal No. 11 will be set against the I option in final voting. I want to start by talking to my future government partner about this with CO2. So there's two things one has to tell the Workers' Party about. The only thing is that SV didn't write anything about a pipe from Grenland in his proposal. We've written the same thing as in the equation. But we have a lot of conditions, very clear conditions that link up with climate, when it concerns pipelines to Grenland. The other relates to knowledge of CO2 injection. SV has twice proposed concrete projects in the Kristin field and the Grane field linking to CO2 injection and linking to what we have been talking about today, the construction of the CO2-free gas power plant offshore. It has SV proposed twice, on two projects. With this, the Labour Party has been updated on what SV has actually done. Even if Onarheim today turns around, SV has concluded several environmental agreements with the Government. I hear today that Onarheim prefers not to talk about it, but he wants to talk about SV as the great father of the new government. But then it's very good to remind Onarheim and Right that Right has actually managed to cooperate with SV in several environmental issues. Onarheim has never boasted of SV, as far as I know at least, from this pulpit, about the environmental similarity. However, the Prime Minister has repeatedly informed the Norwegian people in debates that this government actually has environmental pluralities and several times has agreed to a compromise with SV. Some people appreciate this. Right obviously doesn't appreciate it. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party may choose their own partners in the future. But unfortunately, it is now, and it is probably partly due to the Right, that the climate and environmental policies of the Government are not particularly much to boast of anymore. Right has a tight grip on the Government. Last year they re-established the Great Coalition. Then Right went to the Labour Party and made sure to enter into an agreement in the climate policy with the Labour Party, with the Left and Christian People's Party on draw. We can imagine how much climate and environmental policy there will be out of such a constellation. Although the Labour Party has some constructive aspects to do with what we are talking about, this is a very big challenge when it comes to climate and energy policies for the new government option. But let's stay a little bit with the existing government and the previous Bondevik government. On 9 March 2000, it was precisely the Right and Workers' Party that threw Bondevik I into the climate, on gas. So it was the two parties that today stand out as the good friends, who then also stood together to throw away an environmentally friendly policy, as we also see today's trends. SV was clear that we would like to go further with the Council of State Widvey and the Right-wing Leif Frode Onarheim in the agreement that we are actually talking about today. For this agreement that we're discussing, it's actually the result of a previous agreement with SV. But we set clear conditions for entering into that cooperation. It was not to be negative in the climate accounting. We want to have some technology requirements on Kårstø. We would have a state-owned company that could have co-ordination responsibility for CO2 capture and use of CO2, and we would have a concrete offshore injection project in the discussions with the government party, for example. Goldlfaxes. We would also, of course, go further on the discussions we had last had to link to solutions for infrastructure. We had registered that the government had submitted proposals for a boat, but we were open to discuss other solutions on the road. We didn't hear anything from the Government. Then the government disappeared, with Onarheim and Right in the head, to the Workers' Party. So we didn't get any results that could have done anything or made today a good day compared to Norway as an environmental nation. Then we could have gotten e.g. one specific project that could have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by injection. But the Right wanted to go back to her old friend, the 9th of March, the 2000 Labour Party. They had a common understanding of this and went with them the Left and Christian People's Party. So Bondevik left because he didn't want to build a highly impurity gas power plant. Today we see Bondevik II, which is closest to the environment. They are now building highly impurising gas power plants on Snow White. They shall lay the foundation stone of highly impurising gas power plants on Kårstø. They're setting up today's conciliation for pipeline subsidiars into Forest, so that one can get strong impurity gas power plants there, and we don't know what's going to happen in Grenland. In relation to Bondevik I and Bondevik II, and with the Christian People's Party's eyes, it's a very big change. I suggest that the Christian People's Party has a lot of knowledge about how difficult it is to be in a government with the Right – knowledge that SV can benefit from in connection with its government options, because here it's about going from being a climate hero, as of course Bondevik I was, to becoming a climate bandit, as Bondevik II today appears to be. SV's main profile is that we should have proposals that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and bring Norway to the front and make Norway an environmental nation. That doesn't mean we shouldn't have gas for the industry. Of course we should have gas for the industry! We also need to make Norwegian industry world-leading, especially close to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. For example, we are also some when it comes to Hammerfest Energy, that we should make sure that we get that pilot up, because there is a scheme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with energy production. That means, of course, our main profile is still renewable. We want to house as much as possible with what we have. But there are things we're also involved in connecting to gas, connecting to fossil fuels, but the premise is that it should not weaken our greenhouse gas accounting. The gas power debate illustrates in a way where the notion of the plural here is. Now, for ten years, either from the Advance Party, the Workers' Party or others, one has called for gas power: Now we have to build gas power plants! State Council Widvey says: Now we're going to lay the foundation stone in terms of gas power. Yes, for ten years they've been talking about different models of gas power plants. But there's only one that's built, and it's on Snow White. All the others that have said were absolutely necessary, one has not been able to build. So this is – with respect to reporting – a debatable blow when it comes to results in relation to the promises they give in election campaigns and other places! SV's main profile is still to be renewable, to house more efficiently with what we have. We have a separate package in terms of energy, which goes to 20 TWh by 2010, which is renewable, and which actually creates a number of jobs, for example. within bioenergy. A gas power plant, which everyone here wants to grab, does not create many jobs. Of course, it creates some when they are built up, but not afterwards. Sponheim has said that we can create 4 000 – 8 000 jobs within bioenergy. It is not a busy day. We have to look at what both takes care of the environment and creates work. That combination has SV. It lacks me, like many other parties here. Where it's will, it's a road, said industrial man Sam Eyde 100 years ago – he was very renewable – and it's SV completely in agreement. SV has real will in climate and employment policy. Therefore, SV has a number of proposals that show will and show the way to more workplaces, to develop new technologies, while at the same time taking responsibility for ending an unsolidarian climate policy. It is now time to see if more people in the next round come out of the pollution mine and find the way to a solid gas and climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e535	The President would point out that climate bandits have it in common with other bandits that they should not be involved in parliamentary language. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e540	First, I want to start by giving credit to SV for moving in a positive direction in this case. I am pleased that SVno signals a more positive willingness to use gas for energy purposes, and that SV also sees it as useful that Statnet or another state company should have discussions with the industry with a view to realizing a pipeline solution and not a boat solution. But SV at the same time makes ultimate demands, simply so hard that it may not be realistic to believe in the realization of gas pipes to Grenland. Environmental requirements are important. That also means the Labour Party. We believe, of course, that our international obligations should be fulfilled in the long term. My question to the representative Langeland will then be: With the ultimate requirements that SV imposes on climate emissions and others, does this not show that SV's positive attitude towards gas pipes to Grenland only becomes beautiful words, without real substance?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e549	SV appreciates that the Labour Party boasts of its future government partners. It's nice, and we're taking it with us. When it comes to the question, I want to answer it this way: I don't feel that the Labour Party and the Government's proposal is a go for it, on the contrary – ‘for the sake of’ something, some, once. That is what the proposal says. Then SV says, "Yes, that's what we're going to do." And then we argued that we should have climate policy at the bottom. We should not increase greenhouse gas emissions, and it is responsible, solidarity policy, which I also believed the Labour Party stood for, that one, among other things. Thinks of people who are being hit by greenhouse gas emissions. So these aren't any ultimate requirements at all. This is to follow up on the Kyoto agreement. That's SV's policy. That's what we do in Grenland, which we do when it's for the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e561	I cannot spare myself the thought that had SV existed in Sam Eyes' time, they would have opposed everything he stood for. SV's environmental policy in practice is now to be given an example: an important issue in the gas provinces of Rogaland and Hordaland has been to have five gas ferries on Norway's two most trafficked ferries, Boknafjorden and Björnefjorden. Today’s ferries account for a significant share of Norway’s total NOx emissions from this type of domestic ship transport. The shipping company Fjord 1 is building the gas ferries. Gas lines have entered into an agreement to supply gas equivalent to 25000 Sm3 natural gas to the company from 2007. SV will charge such use of natural gas by 78 øre per. Sm3. Therefore SV will now send an extra charge of 20 million. kr to this company per year years. This will also involve additional costs for ferry users. Does Langeland really think that this is good environmental policy and, for that matter, good consumer policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e579	SV is very happy that gas ferries are coming. If it had been up to the representative Halleraker, it would have better come tolls and bridges, I think. But what we're positive about, is just getting environmentally friendly means of transport. But what we do at the same time, and as Øyvind Halleraker doesn't tell us, is to increase the fee on heavy oil for the other ferries, which then uses more impure sources, so that the account is levelled and goes up. When it applies to holiday prices for travellers, SV looks at whether it should not be free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e588	After listening to the main speakers of the SV and the Workers' Party, Langeland and Klungland, it is only to say that it cracks in all directions – even if you read the settings and look at the proposals. So this is going to be the future government partners. What we have heard in dealing with the notification is that we need a long-term approach both for industry and for oil companies, and also for consumers. The only long term underlying it is that these parties are going to continue the migration of today's government in the CO2 fog, and there you go in circles as you know it. The role of the Centre Party in this matter is somewhat unclear, but after the last national meeting it must be to print ‘code and ready’ to pay what is to be paid by the Oil Fund. SV is constantly calling for an increase in the extraction rate on the Norwegian base, and then my question is: why does SV not promote any concrete proposals that are profitable, in order to increase the extraction rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e598	It is interesting that the progress part is busy with increased extraction rates, and we appreciate it. That's exactly what SV put up to and facilitate, and also in its budget, by, among other things. to look at the tax regime for the different fields, to see if it is possible to use CO2, to look at the accounting systems and to discuss this concretely, for example. with Statoil and in the case of Gulfak. That's the kind of thing we've been doing over a long time, and the Progress Party hasn't got along, because they have their own CO2 fog, and it's pretty black. So I thought it was good today to remind the representative of Korsberg and the Progress Party of a few things. They can only afford a gas pipeline when they are not in agreement with a government – when they are in opposition. Then they have money for everything. But it is the Progress Party's policy that governs this country today. It is the Progress Party that does not go in to subsidize pipes to Grenland; they have never done so. They only do it every time they get a chance outside the budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e611	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e614	Today, we are taking a good step forward towards the goal of using more natural gas in Norway. The Government’s objective has been to make economically sound and environmentally sound use of this important natural resource. The prerequisites for this to be possible are that the gas reaches the users. Various alternatives to the transmission of gas are widely mentioned in the message we are handling today. The objective has been to build a natural gas market in order to defend investment in infrastructure financially. It has also been a premise that the State should participate in the financing of such infrastructure. With the decisions taken later this evening, we're adding up to this. The notification provides the Stortinget with analyses supporting the progressive development of gas infrastructure. The NVE’s assessment in the main message was that with today’s market it was not possible to defend the construction of pipelines either to Grenland or to the Trøndelag region, but that these areas were almost a sound project for the transport of natural gas by pipeline. Against this background, the industry in the areas concerned was challenged to provide ideas and projects that could lead to higher demand and longer-term commitments in relation to the financing of a gas pipeline. The border industry took on this challenge, and the opportunities for participation in financing with significant amounts, increased volume and willingness to enter into long-term contracts for the purchase of gas were highlighted in Grenland. These recordings may facilitate the realization of gas pipelines to Grenland. There were also indications from elsewhere that the use of gas for industrial purposes, e.g. to replace heavy oil in industry, could be relevant. This provides the basis for us, in constructive cooperation with the Workers' Party, to ask the Government through Statnet, possibly through another state-owned company, to initiate discussions with commercial actors with the task of entering into these discussions with a view to realizing gas pipelines to these regions. Introduce Trondheimsfjord is limited to supporting branch pipes into e.g. Trondheim, Orkdal and Verdal and, where appropriate, an extension of pipe diameter on the main tube to allow gas to reach these reception points. Of course, the background for this restriction lies among other things. in the Christian People's Party's attitude to be involved and to fund pipelines for gas power plants without CO2 management. The results of these processes may provide a basis for infrastructure solutions for gas to be found elsewhere along the coast, including Mongstad. Kolsnes, Aukra, Hammerfest and Tjeldbergodden are areas where natural gas falls today and where similar cooperation solutions between authorities and industry may be relevant. Whatever form of cooperation and infrastructure solution the industry and the authorities provide, the scheme must be possible to use elsewhere in the country if the assumptions are good enough in relation to the demand for natural gas. There is a broad consensus that public support to private operators wishing to deploy gas pipelines or LNG transport facilities at an introductory or developing stage in order to increase gas availability in new areas is absolutely necessary. It is gratifying that the majority of the Grand Duchy today subscribes to the notification's assessments of possible LNG routes. An important element of the Energy Policy of the Cooperative Government is the commitment to gas power with CO2 management, both in order to ensure energy supply and to achieve the objectives of climate policy. In January, Gassnova started its work of bringing clean-up technologies for CO2 closer to commercialisation. This will provide completely different opportunities for gas use in Norway and make a significant contribution to the global environmental challenge. We're well-known that there's a lot of exciting going on in this sector. Hammerfest Energy AS has applied to the Government for grants for the construction of a pilot CO2 cleaning plant in connection with a 105 MW gas power plant in Hammerfest. The plant is planned as the world's first full-scale gas power plant with CO2 handling. We are also aware that such plans exist in the border region under the direction of Skagerak Energi. When we clean CO2 from the exhaust gas from large point emissions, we need to find a place we can make of this. In the light of the kerosene notification, the Stortinget Government requested a study of the potential of CO2 as pressure support, and we are aware that the Oil Directorate, as part of this, together with the industry, is now conducting a study to be available during this month. The government is asked to present the results of this study in the revised national budget for 2005. Furthermore, the Stortinget Government asks for an assessment of how and to what extent the whole CO2 chain can be captured and exploited. This is to be presented to the Stortinget before the summer of 2005. Norway has built up a significant gas treatment industry at gas landing sites. This is an industry that primarily treats natural gas before it is sent to the markets. The terminal industry adds value to natural gas and contributes to high value creation and employment both in the construction and operation phases. Most of the natural gas is used locally in the petrochemical industry on the Tjeldbergodden. From the other landing sites most of the gas is exported to markets abroad. Furthermore, it is important that industry and research communities themselves are offensive in terms of further technological developments in relation to the use of natural gas. The decision on the establishment of a large-scale gas test centre in Risavika at Stavanger under the direction of Lyse, Shell, Statoil, the University of Stavanger and Rogaland research is in this context a joyous initiative. It is gratifying to note that there is a broad majority who now want a Swedish/Norwegian system for the trading of electricity certificates to be put in place as soon as possible. An international system is important in order to have a large enough market that works effectively in relation to the objective of the scheme. We take note that from the Swedish side it was not possible to launch this market on 1 January 2006, as the Norwegian authorities had stated. In order not to put an end to investments in renewable energy production, it is important to add to a process where those building up power generation certified after 1 January 2004 can participate in the certificate market when it is in place. There is a broad political and industrial consensus that we should take more of our huge gas resources into domestic use. The exposure has been high, and many communities have shown great creativity to consider. The members of the Committee remember, of course, the people's reaction to gas for Grenland as a manifestation of the will to fight for the jobs and industrial tradition in this area. The decisions taken today by the Stortinget are a response to this commitment which can bring this region closer to a good and long-term gas solution. Furthermore, there is a need to note the initiatives taken in Eastfold, where in the short term gas transport by boat will be natural, but where, for a longer period of time, there may be a need to extend a possible pipeline towards Grenland. Of course, this must also be seen in the context of what is happening in the Swedish market. The government and the Christian People's Party see the importance of gas being used more widely in Norway. If properly used, there may be significant environmental improvements and, at the same time, a new boost for Norwegian industry. New optimism is created, investment in Norway is stimulated, and traditional skills are preserved. The government’s strategy for more use of natural gas in Norway is a contribution to this. I am pleased with the steps we are taking today, and I will finally again be thanking the Workers' Party for a good cooperation through the conciliation that is being reached in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e671	The representative, Brother Ynge Rahm, and I can be a few about it being a big day for Grenland, a big day for Telemark and a big day for the country when we are giving a clear signal today for more use of natural gas domestically. The last time the Stortinget dealt with the gas message, it was a big message that was made by a government council from the Christian People's Party. Then it was impossible to achieve a settlement between the Labour Party and the Government Party. Today's Council of State, from the Right, has our negotiating willingness, with a good and constructive settlement as a result. I also understand that the representative has changed his position since the last time. My question is: Is the representative of Rahm satisfied that this matter has now been better served and has a better solution been found with a trade union council from the Right than with a former government council from the Christian People's Party? In other words, is the representative Rahm more comfortable with what has now happened to political processes, where the Labour Party is the conciliators?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e680	Like Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, I am pleased on behalf of Grenland. I am also pleased that we are gradually getting some good leads for the use of natural gas throughout the country. That Grenland has had a special focus, there has been no doubt about it. We've all noticed that. What I am also pleased with is that the decision that we will take today is a direct consequence and follow-up of the first gas message, which Einar Steensnæs in his time provided. Throughout this process, there have been some important elements that needed to be put in place, and on which both current and current oil and energy ministers have challenged the border environment. It goes on volume, it goes on payment will in the form of long-term contracts, and it goes on possible investment participation in the infrastructure itself. It has been clearly foreseen both in the first and in the second gas message, to which the industry in Grenland responds positively. Given the challenges that Einar Steensnæs presented and that the current Council of State has followed up, it was quite natural that we, on the part of Stortinget, responded positively to it. This is a result of that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e687	The proposal for a Decision, which is behind the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, provides, inter alia, for: read the following: ‘A State aid for pipelines into Trondheimsfjorden is limited to supporting branch pipes into, for example, Trondheim, Orkdal and Verdal and, where appropriate, extending the pipe diameter of the main tube in order to provide space for gas to these reception points.’ Will the representative Rahm explain to me why he and the Christian People's Party operate this discrimination and only impose restrictions on the Trondheimsfjord and nowhere else?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e697	That was in itself a somewhat surprising question, because I thought that the representative Mr. Waksdal had been in this committee for two periods and participated in similar debates in this room many times and of course very well should know the basis for this. The significant difference, to say it in a very simple way, is of course that a main pipe into Trondheimsfjord against Forest will go to a gas power plant without CO2 handling. This has been an important part of the Sem declaration, which the three government parties have jointly drawn up, and this project then stands out in relation to, for example: a future gas power plant in Grenland, where CO2 management is envisaged. So here's the answer quite simply, and I actually thought that the representative Øyvind Vaksdal had registered during the many, many debates we've had on this in Stortingen over the years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e709	The Bondevik I-government went off just over five years ago to prevent the construction of highly polluting gas power plants in Norway, and the Sem-Declaration therefore states that any State participation in financing or ownership of gas pipelines to Forest assumes that the State does not subsidise gas transport to conventional gas power plants. This sentence is not worth the paper it is written at once, if it does not mean that the Christian People's Party must follow it and make decisions that prevent the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. It is obvious that an increased volume, through the construction of branch pipes, through the extension of pipe diameters, facilitates the construction of gas pipes for highly polluting gas power plants. How does the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, see that today's decision, with the blessing of the Christian People's Party, makes it easier to build highly polluting gas power plants in Norway, in the forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e716	As the representative of Leknes is well known, this gas power plant at Skogn has been granted a concession. We have been very clear that we do not change these concession terms along the way – the rules of the game are the same now as they were, and I register, of course, that SV is not so much concerned about following them. The gas power plant at Forest could be built. You have every opportunity to build if you find that it is financially sound to do so. If this tube is put in place, there will be other users in this region who will also be able to make use of the gas, but then in a more environmentally friendly way with our eyes, and in this case, they will be able to stimulate them by means of state resources. It is not in itself a policy that SV can put itself behind, we understand that, but in our opinion, there is a way to use that gas pipe on even more environmentally friendly than what you had originally set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e723	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e726	This crash message is a follow-up to the so-called gas message that it was important to use natural gas in our own country, not just export. The center party also supports around this mindset. The gas should contribute to value creation, not only leading to ringing coins in the treasury. Norway, as a major gas supplier to Europe, should aim to make significant use of natural gas domestically and become a rental supplier of environmentally friendly gas technologies. We need a new investment to exploit gas resources in an environmentally sound and forward-looking way. An important element of this effort will be the development of high energy efficiency gas power plants, minimum CO2 emissions and significant industrial ring effects. Another important element in the effort to exploit gas resources is to create a market for CO2 from terrestrial sources and ensure good solutions for CO2 deposition and use. On Norwegian soil, there is room for large amounts of CO2, either used as pressure support for more oil production or for landfilling. This may be an important element to help reduce the climate problem. There are also considerable opportunities for Norway to be a transitional nation when it comes to developing new environmental technologies and providing storage space for CO2 from emissions in other countries. It should therefore be considered to make financial contributions that will increase profitability by using CO2 as pressure aid for more oil production. The central party also believes that the state must contribute to the establishment of a company that can manage the value chain from CO2 being captured until it is delivered to the recipient or the landfill site. It is very important that this value chain comes into place in time, as gas power plants with CO2 removal depend on an expanded CO2 infrastructure. This is the case for the transport of this gas: to say it briefly, the Senter Party has joined the agreement which means that the State will contribute to the infrastructure for gas transport and domestic use of gas. It is good to start concrete discussions with the industry on pipelines. I would just like to stress that there must be a provision for State co-financing of gas pipelines that the builders of any gas power plant to use the gas are obliged to build installations with CO2 removal that provide minimum emissions. It must be a requirement of State aid that it does not subsidise the transport of gas to impurity gas plants. It has also been stated in the Sem Declaration by the Government Party – as it has been said from this chair in the past. It is also said that everyone has received theirs when it comes to this message – in the north, in the west, in Trøndelag and in Grenland. I still want to use the Worm Lange field in a later article. Those who haven't received anything are the Inland. Then we're in the second part of the message, the one about green certificates. Many of us had hoped that heat would also be included in the certification system. When this does not happen, it is important to find other schemes that can balance the differences. In the case of the Swedish certification system, all existing power generation based on bioenergy, wind and small scale hydropower is included. It should also be active in the Norwegian system. There are high expectations for the introduction of a mandatory green certificate market in Norway. There is a large potential for using more renewable energy and it is expected that the certificate market will trigger a greater share of this potential. The release has created uncertainty for decision makers to decide on the development of new renewable energy. The limitations of the Norwegian certification system should be co-ordinated with the Swedish legislation. At the same time, there are some differences in the structure of energy production and the use of energy in the two countries that may require a slightly different set of rules. But we'll probably have an opportunity to get back to that at the next crossroads. I would like to include the Centre Party's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e785	The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e790	The centre party is on the majority side here today. That's good. But I want to give examples of two paradoxes: the centre party wanted a postponement of the Snow White expansion, and was very critical of the gas power plant that was then, and that is now, under planning. The centre party has had a national meeting this weekend and defined its attitude to oil exploration. Zero emissions are a prerequisite. Interpretation of the Decision. Inger S. Enger was on the local radio in Troms yesterday and said she would interpret this decision as strictly as possible. Zero emissions are not new. It is already a central requirement. But then we have to have something in the pipes, which we're talking about, and which the Center Party supports here today. So a little rhetorical: is the centre here on traditional horse dealers trying to ride two horses – are you trying to be both for and against oil and gas? Is Sollied Överaas able to clarify what is new in the oil policy of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e797	In the case of gas power plants, the Senterpartie said yes to modern gas power plants under certain conditions, including: CO2 handling. When oil drilling is involved in the Barents Sea, we say yes to it, even under certain circumstances. We want an absolute zero requirement for emissions, and we want a holistic plan to make sure that the fishing resources that are in the ocean are well-managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e807	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e810	It is with pleasure that we from the Workers' Party today are dealing with Innst. S. No 135 of the Energy and Environment Committee. It's a big deal – building the country. Everyone who is concerned about industrial development locally and nationally is very positive about the way this matter has been addressed. In the industrial district of Telemark, it is gratifying that the majority of the Committee has taken account of the gas competence acquired in the committee hearings. Signals have gone on to put this important resource into use and to develop infrastructure and transport solutions that make the gas available to larger parts of the country. The majority of the Committee has listened to the environments that will develop land-based industry. These environments include: in Telemark and in Grenland. The majority refers to recordings from the industry in Grenland, for example: possibility of participation in financing, greater volume and willingness to enter into long-term contracts for the purchase of gas. These recordings indicate that the majority of the Committee facilitates the realization of gas pipelines to Grenland. And that's what we want. The majority of the Committee has taken seriously the stated objectives of the Stortingen to increase the domestic use of Norwegian gas. It was good to read from the setting that the majority suggested that: ‘The Government asks Statnett, possibly another state company, to enter into concrete discussions with the Grenland and Trøndelag industry with a view to realizing gas transport pipelines.’ The so-called Gas Agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties has therefore given this case a turn from pessimism to optimism and belief in the future for an entire region, in belief in future industrial construction and an active industrial policy. In previous articles on this matter, I have been a strong critic of the Government's gas policy. The representative Onarheim has also received criticism from this pulpit, because we thought we knew that he knew better! Now I also believe that it is time to give praise to the very representative of Onarheim. There is reason to believe that he has knowledge of industrial policy, technology and gas pipelines that have been passed through the government fraction. There is also reason to praise my own fraction, in the Workers' Party, in this matter. They have shown a great deal of insight and knowledge about what is needed to continue developing Norway as an industrial nation, and they have spent a lot of time with industry, with gas forums and with different environments, among others. in Telemark. When I focus on this reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the government parties, it is because we know that the job is not done, even though today we are making an important principle decision. But whatever the composition of the Storting, and whatever the future government, there will in all likelihood be a majority in the Storing to implement the gas affair after this conciliation – and in the Workers' Party, we are concerned that we should have solved a case, not engage in political waste. The border industry is a major consumer of gas. International industry will be where raw material is available. Therefore, long-term fixed infrastructure that provides predictability of price and delivery is essential. It is worth noting the commitment that has been – from all over the South East – in the case of the landing of gas to the South East, with landfall in Grenland. There are not so many political issues in which pressure has been as stable as in this case. Professional environments, industry, gas forums, trade unions, the NHO, politicians and most of the people have co-existed. It has given us on Stortinget knowledge and strength. We have had good documentation and good professional justification all the way. It has given us credibility throughout this treatment. The case that is being decided today is one of far more matters than Telemark and gas to Grenland. It is national industrial construction, it is a national power and energy issue, and it is not least a major national environmental issue, such as: will significantly reduce the CO2 emissions in the border area. Just the last one makes it so amazing that SV could not be in the majority position. I also see that there is a good direction towards SV's gas policy, but I find it strange that SV in his comments needed to refer to a leader in today's business, where it points out: ‘A business-political scandal is under way.’ This I think is strange, and. Was that necessary? It is positive that the Progress Party shares views with the majority in principle on pipelines. But here too, we are wondering from Telemark that the party gives the impression that they are granting money in this matter, as the representative Grethe Fossum stated. Partisan marking is what it is, and it does not contribute to any solution. We did not record that the Progress Party put five flat ears into the budget last harvest. In its draft budget, the Labour Party proposed DKK 3 billion for infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e851	The issue of environmentally friendly gas technologies has rightly been referred to as the spring energy issue here in Stortinget. The matter is resolved with constructive and forward-looking solutions. It promises well for predictable future developments, on which commercial actors are so dependent. It is reassuring for the actors that developments take place as a result of compromise between responsible parties in the field of energy policy. We have good experience in this country. Cost-efficient distribution and use of gas depends on the quantity and distance from the nearest source and landing site. In one extreme, we find the roadless cabin on the mountain with very modest consumption, and on the other hand, we find megastoreys on the east coast of the United States. But they have one thing in common, namely that the gas is transported in containers, from small portable containers to very heavy gas tankers from Melkøya, precisely because pipelines are too expensive and too rational. The example tells us that sustainable transport and distribution need to be adapted to the long-term cost-reimbursement solution for the market and the user, for the supplier and the producer, and for society as such. Several shipping companies include: Knutsen OAS and IM Skaugen have been able to present exciting concepts, such as: includes the gas delivered «on the door» at acceptable energy prices and sea-storage against a near-distribution network. Natural gas West has also, as you know, already established distribution with a smaller ship along the coast. When gas demand grows and the market has been established and demand solutions with higher capacity may be needed next time to build gas pipelines to supply some areas. The ships can then be used elsewhere. Following the submission of the notification, industry has addressed the challenges posed by the notification in several places and launched plans to increase both volume, which can improve the profitability of gas pipelines, and increased industry involvement in financing the pipeline and gas purchase obligations. Without these commercial interests being active on a case-by-case basis, projects will not be realised. This challenges us as state authority, and we should be in the split layer to get the likely future-oriented solution right away. We point out that it is natural that Statnett, or another state-owned company, along with commercial actors, goes on with this matter. This is a clear breakthrough for the use of gas on a much larger scale in Norway, and it will mean a significant increase in the efficiency of industrial production and energy consumption in many places. It is also welcome that polluting energy sources are replaced by natural gas with much cleaner combustion and thus less harmful emissions. It is important for me to stress that what the Storting decides today is a so-called transparent system that can be applied across the country if the assumptions are present, not least that the industry is involved in the fissure layer. It is primarily the plans and the willingness of commercial interests to participate that will determine where the initiative will take place. On my side of the country, the West, and especially in Hordaland, we have already come a long way to exploit the gas. I actually had the pleasure of marking the start of the gas bus project in Bergen by connecting the first gas bus to the filling station, and before the end of the year there are 80 buses going on gas in Bergen. From an industrial point of view, there are also major plans in the Kollsnes–Mongstad–Sløvåg region, and here pipelines will be the right solution to supply, among others. the heat energy plant in Mongstad, but it will also generate industrial development in the region. The Westland tube southwards from Kolsnes, via Bergen-Sunnhordland-Haugaland and to Kårstø, will mean a gas pipeline from Sogn and Fjordane to the West-Agder border, with the enormous opportunities it will provide for industry and households along this coastal route.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e882	St.meld. No 47 is about environmentally friendly gas power technology. Then it's quite paradoxical that the result after we've voted here today is anything but environmentally friendly. The most important and most important environmental challenge we have today is the climate challenge. The man-made climate change that is taking place today is the biggest environmental challenge of our time, and they must face offensive measures, not the construction of gas power stations, to which the decision today contributes. If a gas pipeline is now being built to the Grenland area, which can also be positive to SV as long as clear climate policy assumptions are underpinned, the plans for the continuation of Oslofjord are clear from many teams. In that case, the natural gas must be brought to all homes and all businesses that wish to do so. Access to natural gas is not an evil in itself, but it is therefore that burning gas results in greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, SV is proposing today to impose a domestic use of natural gas for energy purposes CO2 tax, so as not to give it a competitive advantage over more environmentally friendly energy. It is quite incomprehensible to me that no more parties will address constructive proposals to prevent more polluting energy sources from competing with less polluting energy sources. At the same time, Stortinget today makes a decision that will facilitate the introduction of a gas pipeline into Trondheimsfjord as a gas power station in Forest. The fact that the Storting decides that the State can contribute financially to increasing the pipe diameter of such a pipe, or to financing a branch pipe, is State-subsidized pollution. The first Bondevik government, as we know, went on March 9th over five years ago to prevent the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. Today, with the blessing of the Christian People's Party, the Stortinget makes a decision that makes us a step closer to the construction of polluting gas power plants in Norway, more specifically in the Forest of the North Throne Layer. One of the main reasons why the gas power plant in Forest has not been built is that there has been a lack of clarity in relation to the financing of gas pipes. Complete clarity can hardly be said to be today either, but we are undoubtedly a step closer because the financing of branch pipes and increased pipe diameter makes it easier to transport an increased volume through the gas pipe and thus increase profitability. And we all know that business investments that are more profitable are easier to take than those that are less profitable. Moved over to another case. Technical Weekly reports that Sweden is considering prohibiting the use of electricity for heating in new buildings being built. In Norway, we continue to waste our highest energy using it for heating purposes. In the agreement in connection with the previous gas message, we had an attempt in place to get a guarantee system for remote heat. I'm afraid it's forgotten. We in SV would like to see this in place, so that we could have increased the development of infrastructure for remote heat. At the same time, it is very regrettable that we have not put in place a renewable energy certificate scheme. There are very many who are awaiting investment decisions in the field of new renewable energy, precisely because this scheme has not come into place. We have a huge potential for new renewable energy in Norway. The problem is that the Government, the Labour Party and the Advance Party are far more concerned with building gas power plants than with stimulating the development of wind power, bioenergy, tidal power and wave power. We cannot assume that Norway's energy needs will grow forever. At the same time, it is important to contribute in such a way that currently using heavy oil for heating gives incentives to switch to gas. Such incentives are currently provided through support from ENOVA to reception terminals for boat transport. These boats should, of course, go on gas instead of more polluting energy sources. Gas is not the only salvaging, gas is no higher truth, neither for Norwegian industry nor for power generation. An overfocus on gas prevents the transition to new renewable energy sources. We have countless alternatives. Norway could have become a leading country in the field of new renewable energy, but this requires research efforts and increased appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e906	Future energy policy must promote value creation based on sustainable development. Now, when processing the message to facilitate the increased use of natural gas in Norway, it would be very demanding if many – mostly small – operators were to be responsible for expanding the infrastructure. Norway has an interesting story as an energy country. At the end of the nineteenth century, many private operators started developing power supplies in Norway. In the phase after private start-up, there was a need for public coordination and engagement to expand the power supply throughout the country. Increased use of natural gas will result in a significant increase in energy supply in Norway, thus having common features with the challenges faced by the state in terms of the expansion of energy supply here to the country. As the use and transport of natural gas increases and the requirements for good infrastructure become more extensive, the level of public engagement and coordination increases. The public exposure may arise through regulation, support schemes or, where appropriate, public ownership. Today, a state-owned company is given the task of contributing to the development of gas transport solutions in Norway. It has been interesting to record the commitment of both industry and the political environment in many places in the country to use natural gas. We have registered involvement from Finnmark in the north, and then state for states along the whole coast all the way to Eastfold – and inland, where they look forward to using the gas. I am impressed by the optimism and creativity that have come to light. The exposure comes not only from potential large users, but also from the many who need small volumes, it appears to be transported by LNG or CNG by ship or by tanker. Already today there are many tankers transporting natural gas. As the infrastructure is developed and consumption increases, other transport solutions adapted to the consumption can be chosen. The most important thing is that gas transport schemes are put in place to secure sufficient gas for users at competitive prices. The government has presented transport solutions for domestic use of gas by ship, tanker and pipeline. In today's setting, the Stortinget Government is asking Statnett, possibly another state-owned company, together with private operators, to engage in concrete discussions with the industry in Grenland and in Trøndelag with a view to realizing pipeline solutions for the transport of gas. The results of these processes may provide a basis for distribution of gas to other coastal locations, e.g. Mongstad. This is a deepening of the Government's commitment to facilitating the use of natural gas. The decision here today gives a direction for the state-owned company’s work. The concrete discussions with the industry in Grenland and in Trøndelag will lay the basis and thus the template for what the industry can expect from state involvement in obtaining gas transport infrastructure throughout the country. A provision for State involvement is that it occurs in cooperation with commercial actors. The decision today that the state company should start discussions with the industry in Grenland and in Trøndelag should not work exclusively on other projects, but on the contrary provide support for the industry to engage elsewhere in order to increase the use of natural gas, which is the most environmentally friendly fossil fuel we know. To put it another way: if industry and, where appropriate, other users together with commercial operators commit themselves to the long-term receipt and use of gas and co-financing, the State company may enter into compliance with the conditions to be met for the participation of that company. In the areas where there is or will be a land fall, natural gas is in any case well suited to be used as energy and/or raw material. This will be the case with Hammerfest, Nyhamna, the Celebrity, Kollsnes and Karmøy. Gasesnor ASA and Light Gass have shown roads and built distribution networks in Rogaland based on natural gas access in many ways. Today, the starting bulkhead goes to facilitate the environmentally sound use of natural gas throughout the country. It can provide secure and efficient energy supply and raw material access, reduced pollution, the construction of gas power stations with CO2 management and the development of a market for CO2.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e938	Minister of Oil and Energy Thorhild Widvey has repeatedly stressed the richness of Norway in natural resources and the importance of exploiting the opportunities in this area. The news of abuse we are dealing with today helps to strengthen these opportunities. Gas is a very valuable resource. Forecasts from the International Energy Agency, the IEA, say global gas consumption will almost double by 2030. Producers of gas on Norwegian base see great opportunities for future deliveries to, among other things. Europe, not least to the United Kingdom. There is optimism as to the possibilities of both production volume, markets and price. In this picture, it is important that the focus is also on the domestic use of gas, so that we thus ensure maximum value creation based on this natural resource. As a rogalending, I have witnessed over time a discussion and a focus on using the gas in Norway. In fact, for a long time, Gassnors in Haugaland were almost unique in terms of distributing domestic gas. But during this ageing period, the government has shown a very active role in this regard, both through the previous gas message and now through this one we have to deal with today. From a period when increased gas was more or less a theoretical debate area, we are now in a development where gas is used, and it is focused on it in a completely different way than before. Therefore, I must say that I knew a small bismach when the Labour Party representative Rolf Terje Klungland said that until now the government's investment in gas has only been an oral investment, and that the government's policy has led has been a hindrance to a development. Gas has existed in this country for a long time, and the Workers' Party has had many oil and energy mines without as much as it has done in this ageing period so far. Two examples illustrate this. Firstly, the Lyse Group's investment with the Rogas project, where gas is transported from Kårstø to Risavika in Rogaland. This has been both an economic and an environmental success. After one year of operation, Light has sold gas equivalent to 450 million kWh, corresponding to a power consumption in 22500 ordinary households. The project has a country distribution network of approximately 300 km. So far, the main gravity of the gas has been heating business premises and industry as well as heating greenhouses, where CO2 emissions increase growth. It is part of the story that this project has been realised without state resources. The intermunicipal owned Lights has invested approx. 750 million. kr on its own, and according to the signals given through the media, the group expects to balance this investment almost in the current year. This project is also an environmental project, because the gas replaces more environmentally harmful fuels such as oil and propane. Another good example of the use of gas domestically is the decision from Natural Gas to build a conventional gas power plant on Kårstø. This was a very welcome decision, both from an energy balance point of view and in relation to the objective of increasing domestic gas use. Therefore, there is reason to commend the Natural Power and Owners Hydro and Statkraft for carrying out this demanding process in order to find profitability in this gas power plant. Gas is a resource that can be used in a variety of ways, both for power generation and for industrial production. It is a sensible strategy that has been chosen in relation to the use of gas as an energy source. With our dependence on hydropower, we need to make the energy supply more robust, and then gas is a nearby source. We all know the challenge in terms of climate emissions, and that is precisely why the Right and Government have focused on producing commercial technologies for CO2 clean-up. The day that technology is available and profitable, we will both have ensured environmentally friendly power generation in this country and have laid the foundation for what can be a profitable industrial effort on environmentally friendly technology. The creation of Gassnova in Grenland is an important tool to help promote this type of technology. It is important that the innovation company cooperates well with other knowledge environments around the country. Here I want, among other things. mention the large-scale gas test centre at Risavika in Stavanger as decided by Statoil, Shell, Lyse, the University of Stavanger and Rogaland research. They have taken the initiative of setting up this centre directly for the verification of new technologies and products for the environmentally friendly use of natural gas. Until 2010, the centre will dispose of 50 million Sm3 of natural gas for research purposes, and investment in facilities will be around 50 million Sm3 of natural gas for research purposes. 60 million. kr. This project has been fully funded by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e966	In the big news that is now being debated, there are three topics that are being discussed. All three are key elements of energy policy and follow up the policy signals given during the process of gas communication. As regards the first theme, gas infrastructure, analysis of costs and profitability was presented in the Communication by leading natural gas to domestic users. The analyses confirmed that LNG transport on ships would be the most appropriate solution for most locations in Norway. It is interesting to see the actual activity in this area, as well as the growing interest among several types of operators in the market. Local electricity companies, oil companies, industry and several shipping companies show concrete willingness to invest in LNG. It is an area of development in which new solutions contribute to reducing the cost of both LNG production, transport and terminals. Within the small-scale LNG distribution, Norway is developing concepts that can actually serve as a model for other countries. Many countries have large geographical spreads between customers who demand limited quantities of gas in the same way as Norway. I'm glad that Stortinget gives broad support to further investing in LNG. The notification did not exclude the possibility that some points in Norway could be covered by pipeline transport. But it's a big promise to establish a gas pipeline, and it requires that all actors who have an interest in such an infrastructure participate and commit themselves financially. The willingness to pay for the transport services and the volume of gas to be transported are crucial for profitability. I therefore allowed myself to challenge the actors in this field. The industry in Grenland has now given signals that they want to build and own the separation plant if a combination pipe is added to the area. It is also signaled that the volume transported may be larger than that underlying the main message. It is natural to follow-up these recordings with concrete discussions with a view to realising pipeline solutions for the transport of gas. The establishment of a gas pipeline in Trondheimsfjorden depends very much on the implementation of the planned gas power plant in Forest. In this case it may be appropriate to establish branch pipes for example. Trondheim and Orkanger. LNG transport on ships can then become less competitive in this area. The industry in the district has signaled a great interest in buying gas, and the municipality of Trondheim has set aside 200 million. kr to the pipeline project. This provides a basis for discussing concrete discussions about gas pipes with the actors also in Trøndelag. I would like to take the opportunity to give tribute to the Committee which has contributed to the broad consensus that work has now been reached on increasing the use of natural gas in line with what the majority of the population ask for in the vote and which has reproduction in relation to what the Government believes. I have noticed that the majority premise for its decision is based on the decision of the Industry Committee in terms of the assumptions for state co-financing in the infrastructure domestically. I have great expectations of the concrete discussions with the players in the market that are now taking place. So to the next theme, gas power technology with CO2 management. The commitment to gas power stations with CO2 management is a key element of the Government's energy policy. The government has strengthened its efforts to significantly accelerate the realisation of environmentally friendly gas power. From 2005 onwards, Gassnova is a principal instrument in the efforts of the authorities in this field. The objective is that Gassnova support for projects to test and demonstrate CO2 management technologies should contribute to the development of efficient and forward-looking technology concepts. In order to succeed in this work, it is important that Gassnova now be given responsibility and time to develop good projects with stakeholders in this area. As the majority of the Committee refers to, the Government shall provide the results of the Oil DG’s study of the potential of using CO2 as pressure support in the revised national budget for 2005. An assessment shall also be made of how and to what extent the whole CO2 chain can be captured before summer. That will of course be done. So to the last theme, mandatory electrical certificates. As regards the development of a mandatory electricity certificate market, it is clear that the Storting must take a decision on the key elements of the handling of a tender proposal on the matter. Coordination with Sweden is very important in this context. On February 11th, I met with my colleague Mona Sahlin. It was then found that from the Swedish side, they aim to launch this common market from 1 June 2007. That's why the government chooses not to present an odelsting proposal to the Storting this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1007	I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Council of State a question in order, hopefully, to clarify the majority position. There have been more than one input to the members of the Committee since its release that the majority is too small in terms of infrastructure construction elsewhere than in Grenland and in Trøndelag. In the Labour Party, we believe that the reality of the majority decision is that elsewhere in the country should of course have the same opportunity to use the gas if there is a basis for it. I would like to ask what is the Council of State's assessment of this issue, especially on the basis that Leif Frode Onarheim has previously said that this must initially be seen as a project. Does this mean that the time is now, or does it mean that the scheme will also continue, so that other gas-needed areas can benefit from public support and public companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1014	In terms of infrastructure construction, there are different types of models. In some places in Norway, using LNG is the most profitable way to carry the gas on ships. In other places, building pipes can actually be profitable. I'm very glad that there's a large majority in Stortinget that supports it, and that it's not necessarily the case that you have to build pipes everywhere in Norway, but that it can be profitable to rely on the fact that at some point you can carry the gas on ships. It happens. I would like to mention that in the case of aid for infrastructure, there is a support scheme today that Stortinget is well aware of, among other things. is managed by Enova. It is also the case that in this year they have concluded four agreements with the contracting parties to build terminals precisely in view of this. Yesterday, a new call for proposals for grants for the construction of natural gas infrastructure was launched for 2005. It's based both on LNG and on the fact that you can build pipes at different locations. It is clear that when the Government is to provide a mechanism for providing pipe support, it must be transparent. There must also be opportunities to use it throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1021	The government was very passive in the communication with regard to the construction of natural gas infrastructure. It was now claimed by the representatives of the government parties that this inaction has been reversed and replaced by an offensive effort, among others. on gas pipelines through a State company. However, with the majority proposal available, I am unable to see any particularly offensive initiative. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether she is of the opinion that her campaign traps in the Grand Duchy have now turned the development in a positive direction, and whether she will then ensure that such a bet not only becomes empty words, but that the company gets the necessary capital, for example in the coming state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1026	I feel reasonably sure of the line that the Government has put up here, and that has now received broad support in Stortinget, by focusing on the fact that one can continue to bet on using the gas more, not only through the use of ships, but also through the broad compromise that has now been reached, on the assumption that the industry, among other things. In the border environment, which has shown that there is a need for a larger volume, there is also a greater willingness to pay, and an investment initiative has actually been shown by being willing to contribute to the realisation of the construction of pipes. The essential assumptions have been based on them. If you read the message, the government has not rejected the construction of pipes. It says that with the profitability considerations that have been assessed up to now, based on the input received, among other things. from the industry, it has not been profitable to build it now. So now it turns out that the industry is interested in contributing. Then it is clear that with the changed assumptions I can guarantee that we will immediately start the work to get the necessary discussions done to see if it is possible to realize these pipes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1034	The matter today is the result of a settlement between the Government and SV. In the debate today, we have heard that some representatives from the Right are trying to scare with SV when it comes to gas use in Norway. Not least, the representative Onarheim has been busy producing SV as a horror scenario. What I want to clarify is the reason why Right now has withdrawn from the cooperation they have had with SV in this matter – why did one do it and went to the Labour Party? Was it because of the suggestions we had that were related to CO2 injection offshore? Was it really hard for the government to join? Or was it a state-owned CO2 injection company that was problematic? Or was it our technology requirements that connect to Kårstø? Because, as we heard, the Minister of Oil and Energy got boasts from the Labour Party about the willingness to cooperate. But why broke in with SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1047	I've learned a lot through many years of political work, and the most important thing I've learned is that you can sit and ride your principles, but it helps very little if it doesn't help to make things go forward. Perhaps the most important thing to learn in the world of politics is to help contribute to solutions that make us move forward, as it is called in the international language. I noticed that SV was early on the track to try to make a constructive contribution in this regard, but, as the representative also said from Stortinget's pulpit today, the requirements to participate in a majority contribution in the hall were so strong that it was completely excluded from going into discussions on such a background. As the representative said today, a small study has been carried out in relation to the investment costs of injecting. Cleaning Kårstø, Skogn and Snow White, for example, would contribute to increased investment costs in the order of 11 billion DKK. Should it be an absolute requirement to clean Grenland, the Tent Goods and Mongstad before building pipes for these areas, it would also help to increase the investment costs by NOK 11 billion. I don't think it's necessary to make any further comments as to why it was difficult to contribute to such a settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1055	The centre party is pleased that the setting will result in an increased bet on gas to contribute to the value creation. It gives good ringing around the whole country, and we support the deal. The setting indicates that gas pipes are most relevant from an economic perspective, where the market is not so far away from the source of gas. It was also the Council of State inside its post. It naturally leads me to gas from Nyhamna to Aukra, where it may be appropriate to build a pipeline of about 2 kilometres. The former State Council Steensnæs has told the media in More and Romesdal that Nyhamna is such a natural alternative that it is not necessary to mention it in the setting. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State share its former minister's statement that Nyhamna will also be treated in the same way as other projects named by name in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1064	It reminds me of my time when I was on the Transport Committee while I was a member of the Stortinget. During all the important debates, especially beyond Christmas, we all jumped up on the pulpit and were to send a greeting home in relation to what kind of projects and roadblocks should be supported. I think it's very important to stress again that it's not like the Storting should now say that the distance should get its pipe and that distance should not have pipes. I believe that the most important thing about this agreement that has been reached here in the Stortinget today is to stress that in some areas of Norway it is still possible to supply gas on ships, and in other areas it can actually be found that building pipes is profitable. Then it is important for me as the Council of State to stress that then we have to come up with transparent arrangements. It is not legal in relation to EEA legislation, and I do not believe that any government with respect for itself intends to do so, to add to schemes that favour some areas in order to provide subsidies for building pipes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1071	There is a strong interest in the creation of a mandatory green certificate market for renewable electricity. The working party has long been involved in the establishment of such a system. We have also been concerned about waterborne heat, and that the creation of such a certificate market should not be at the expense of waterborne heat and bioenergy. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State what she and the Government will do to ensure that a green certification market for electricity does not go beyond the expansion of waterborne heat and the use of bioenergy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1078	Both the Storting and the Government have stressed that the introduction of an electricity certificate market must be based on the same principles as those of the market with which it is to be coordinated, inter alia. the Swedish. I might have seen that it was extended to the rest of Europe as well. It is therefore very important that what is within the Swedish market must also be the basis of the Norwegian market. This means that we must not have any further things in this market on the Norwegian side in relation to what is in Swedish, because there will be a distortion of competition in view of the companies that are going to compete in this market. Now we are in the final question of working out the content in relation to this. It will, of course, be very dependent on the discussions that must take place in relation to the Swedes before presenting a proposition to the Stortinget based on what this market should contain. It also requires, of course, good dialogue with the Swedish authorities and an understanding of what this market should contain.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1085	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1088	Allow me some wonder in this matter, not about the message itself, a rather over the conclusion, with an agreement after a good cooperation between the Right and the Workers' Party, but simply about the interaction between the government and the government parties in the Stortinget. How is it possible for a Council of State to present a message stressing that it is not profitable to build pipes over longer distances in Norway, which is certainly in line with what her predecessor from the Christian People's Party, Steensnæs, thought, while her party traps in Stortinget are actively working for another solution? Misunderstand me correctly: I am very glad that the government parties support the Workers' Party's gas pipeline policy. Nevertheless, I am convinced that the bike fight that must have been first in the government and then between the big parties and the government was actually suitable for the public. I am convinced that the differences between the Left and the Christian People's Party on the one hand and the Right on the other hand in this matter and many other matters are kept secret from the Norwegian people. At the same time, we have a prime minister who always stresses the harmony of the government. The representative of Onarheim stressed that decisions were taken in the government. It is a pity, then, that the government fractions of the Storting are turning down on this entire “robust” unity. You know what? I'm starting to enjoy the memoirs, I! As novise in this area, I've let myself be impressed by one thing, and that's the Grenlands environment. It's an example of follow-up, the targeted cooperation to achieve a good solution, which, in my view, will provide environmental improvement, employment and perhaps world-class technology development. There is reason to reflect on why Norway, as a major gas exporter, does not use the gas for domestic value creation. We have the raw materials, we have highly competent workers, and we have the opportunity to develop existing industrial plants. But someone had to go ahead and show way, show what had to be done. And allow me to say that this time it wasn't the government or the representative of Onarheim who had the solution, but the Workers' Party, with the representative of Klungland at the head, who has worked for such a solution that we are going to adopt today for many years. Nevertheless, it is the honour of the Council of State and the representative of Onarheim that they dared to change the ‘robust’ position that was in the Government. A cross of thoughts is also the pending role played by the committee leader in this matter, both before the notification was delivered to Stortinget, and in the work in Stortinget. Perhaps the loyalty of former State Council Steensnæs was greater than the loyalty of the Grenlands environment and the work that has been done to find a solution? I would also like to draw attention to another point of great importance for the implementation of the decision we are making today, namely the cost analysis underlying the alleged ‘non-profit’ of the gas pipeline. By setting the calculation rate to 8 p.m., the highest in Europe, and an economic lifetime of 20 years for pipes — usually estimated from 40 to 60 years — in Norway, piping will not be profitable for anyone. It is therefore gratifying that the Government will review this. This assumption, together with a State partial financing of a pipeline solution, will enable all of Norway to exploit natural gas. And since I'm from an area in this country that lies both in the oil shadow and in the shadow of Oslo, yes in many shadows, I sincerely hope that I can suggest that this not only matters to Coast Norway, but perhaps also to Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1105	Much has been said here before today about the importance of this ‘gas deal’ between the Workers’ Party and the government parties. I'm not going to repeat it, except to say that it's good to see that you have not only reason, but are also able to use it. It is probably also the case in this case that there are some who are more good at using their senses than others. All honour to them! Fish is a theme that has been a lot of focus, both inside and outside the Stortinget. The crisis factor is sometimes high when fisheries are carried into this room. The fronts are kind of hard. There's been a policy in the fish, we say in the bush. It is tempting to draw that discussion out completely, but I will leave it. I hope, however, that the Storting could raise its eyes on a fisheries debate that is more marked by the realities of the industry than by marking political revelries. My point of bringing fish into the strategy debate on the use of gas is that gas and fish have two distinct similarities: so far both these two fantastic raw materials have been exported largely unprocessed. The main arguments for such a strategy have been: It is most profitable. It is too expensive to process/manufacture in Norway. From my point of view, one of the points with the state of Norway is that it should take responsibility for solutions for the benefit of the community. Unfortunately, over time, the state has become more and more concerned with solutions where the only focus has been profitability — fish, gas or most of the other. For me who comes from a part of the country where Oslo Børs is as distant as Disney World, and where the market forces look around many times before they even consider whether to consider using their capital or intelligence, it warms the heart that you can get on your feet a document with such principles as this. Because it's not just concrete signals for individual processes or projects we give here in the Storting today. We give, as I see it, concrete signals to ‘he State’, that is to say to ourselves, that the state should take responsibility – not to develop unprofitable projects and jobs, but to facilitate the exploitation of one of our most important raw materials for the benefit of the nation. A number of concrete projects stand clear and cry for gas — Norwegian gas, a raw material that can be used and processed for the most part. One of these is the work of the Hammerfest Energy AS gas power plant in connection with Snow White and Melkøya, an exciting industrial and development project. The majority of the Committee says this in its comments: ‘The majority are briefed on the technology to be used and the investment decision is envisaged for the first half of 2005. The Hammerfastening plant could play a significant role in the practical further development of environmental technologies, together with industry and the parallel research institutes.’;» These are wise words from the majority – words that also imply clear signals, political signals that this is something that we must realise. Other projects have been mentioned here today — projects that will be of major importance individually, not only for the area to which they are located, but also for Norway as an industrial nation. It is quite conscious that in this article I have spent a lot of energy talking about the principles we are in favour of – principles that must also apply to the future and to new projects, projects that will lead to optimism and provide the basis for housing on our knuckles, projects that we do not know about today. What we know is that they're lying there – undiscovered. In the same way that everything has been undiscovered – before it was discovered. If we are to realise the vision of exploiting the gas in Norway, it is essential that we move in the same direction, and that we move forward and not pursue obstruction policy, as the Progress Party and the SV in my opinion do. There has been a lot of focus on potential conflicts in the potential red-green government option. One of my assessments is that the alternative to conflict is moths. Then I prefer conflict. I could imagine telling a little story in the end. It's from the 1960s, up in the North Drums. The first suspension engines had arrived. A mature man had got a fault on his trailer engine. He turned the healthy suspension motor, sat on the bench and started a smoke – it was allowed to smoke at the time, also inside. Then he sat there, in the middle of the tongue of a healthy bolted hinged engine, and said, "Now the worst thing is done." It wasn't that simple, he was supposed to screw it together too. There he had a huge problem. My point with this little story is to say that the worst is not done with the decision Stortinget is making here today. The worst is in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1148	The high socio-economic importance of the oil and gas industries for Norway is indisputable. Measured in value creation and exports, Norway is the largest industry in the world. The natural gas represents an increasing proportion of petroleum exports and of total Norwegian exports. Even if we have used the gas domestically to a small extent, it is due to a so-called low market and limited infrastructure. I am incredibly happy that today we are writing on the industrial history of our country. The broad agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party offers a stronger commitment to increased domestic use of natural gas. The treatment and decisions taken in connection with this paper will enable a significantly greater proportion of our country’s gas resources to be used in future for domestic, industrial, social and energy-bearing value creation. Managing Director of Yara, Thorleif Enger, has said: ‘Norway has a golden opportunity to create favourable growth conditions for the gas-based industry. The supply of gas to Grenland will be a vitamin injection for the industry in the region and provide opportunities for further development of Norway’s main industrial clusters.’ Not least for Telemark and South-East countries, this is of great importance. The possibility has now been provided for a gas pipeline to the south-east with landfall Grenland. The petrochemical facilities and the other process industries of the region represent billions of investment in basic values and the environment represents a unique industrial competence in Norway. We need to know how to take care of this and develop it further. For industry, a pipeline will provide security for raw material access and new opportunities for development so that this export industry can continue to compete in the international ‘elite division’. Pipes to the South-East will primarily contribute to the development of industry in Grenland, but by adding branch pipes to Agder and Eastfold, industrial opportunities could also be created in these areas. The financing of gas pipelines has been a central theme. The Committee notes that the Government wishes to have a grant scheme for the development of gas infrastructure. The Industry Committee, where Højres Jan Tore Sanner has contributed, also believes that public participation in the financing of natural gas infrastructure is important in order to facilitate increased gas use in Norwegian industry — with the key socio-economic viability. The industry in Grenland and the Land Association of the Process Industries have presented extensive arguments that pipeline transport to Grenland will have a much greater use and profitability than has previously been foreseen. I am pleased with the Council of State's assurances for further concrete work on this. As many have said, and to which the Committee refers, all the input from industry and municipalities in Grenland has been invaluable. This applies, inter alia, to: the possibility of involving funding, greater volume, willingness to enter into long-term contracts for the purchase of gas and Skagerak Energi’s plans for a CO2-free gas power plant. It is gratifying that the result is now that Statnett or another state company is asked to enter into negotiations with the industry in Grenland for the realization of a gas pipeline. I have to take the opportunity to thank the Right fraction and Leif Frode Onarheim for a comprehensive and constructive work. Secondly, I must commend the many in Grenland who have worked both hard and long. The whole of Grenland has engaged. The will has been strong and the stubbornness great. After the Great Britain's long debate on the gas communication in spring 2003, the Grenlands environment tackled all the challenges and continued its work unrelentingly in line with the signals given. When the Stortinget now deals with the domestic use of natural gas, Grenland will have a reward for showing both the ability and the willingness to continue to invest. Future plans have been submitted. Even I am not in doubt that this work has been absolutely crucial for the settlement that has been achieved, and for the positive outcome that the case is getting here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1175	For the Workers' Party, which wants to use gas both for power generation, for commercial purposes and for industrial purposes, today is a step forward. I myself have been discussing these issues for a ten-year period, since the first domestic gas use message was provided. And in the Labour Party, we see the possibilities, not just the constraints. For them, of course, it can be argued for, but it is the possibilities that are important – the possibility of value creation and the possibility of more industrial development. In fact, we produce a lot of gas outside our borders, in the North Sea and further north, and the oil companies export in exchanges and buckets – I should say – and, of course, think a lot more about it. But they also need to know that there is a political desire to do more on the land in Norway. When the message we are processing here today arrived, it was received with a gesture. Because one concluded that it was not advisable to build pipelines for the transport of gas now. But it's infrastructure that's the most important thing to be able to use the gas. The Labour Party still agrees with itself that it is important to have a company, and we decided for it, with a capital of NOK 3 billion. But when we don't get what we want, we actually thought it was important to get something. That is why this compromise, this agreement between the Government Party and the Labour Party today, is important. And I have to say, unlike Grethe Fossum, I'm glad that the generals are not allowed to take part in the discussions that have taken place on the chamber between the government party, because I don't know if it would have been for general information. But at least I know that the Christian People's Party's representatives in Hordaland are very busy using the gas. So it's probably not so that one out is as negative as one was in the government. But then it's great that we've got a government council that wants to do something about it, and that's what I'm looking at. Because it's incredibly important. I want to praise the environment in the Border area, because they really haven't given up. They've taken hold of this, they've stood by and said that once enough the Storting will make sense, and then we'll be clear. And I hope that's something. I also want to draw up a project from my own region, the pipe between Mongstad and Sture. Building a pipeline that will allow one to benefit from more industrial exploitation. It's going to be a little bit more expensive, but the capacity will increase by 60 pst. So there must be a good economy in it. It has come about to understand that the proposal of the Progress Party should in some way be ok, go for this pipe on Mongstad-Sture, while the government party and the Labour Party should not embrace that part of it. But the state councils have been very smart that it should be non-discrimination. So if the project is good enough, and if a search for funds for it, it should be treated on the same line with other projects. I thought the council was very smart when she confirmed it. Because it is important that industrial development and value creation continue in all parts of our country. And then actually infrastructure is the most important thing when it comes to gas. Finally, I must say that it is incredibly important for our gas power plants to have the same framework conditions as otherwise in Europe. We let eyeball and look at an importer, and we're going to import, power from coal-fired plants in Denmark, and where it might be, and then we have the purest product, which we should have created by ourselves. I'm not going to criticize anyone who hasn't built a gas plant, but it's been a hold from the owners' side that this hasn't been desirable. But when it is as clear as it is, both now and before, that builders must have exactly the same framework conditions as elsewhere in Europe, it is also possible to develop the power of gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1198	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1201	There has long been broad political agreement that a greater proportion of our gas resources must be used in Norway. Increased domestic use of natural gas will provide the basis for increased value creation, industrial and technological development, the creation of new jobs and a better environment. In the energy field, Norway is a leading player in Europe because of our large exports of oil and natural gas. It is therefore important to use more natural gas also in Norway, both as energy and as a raw material base for industrial innovation. It will improve the balance of power, it will further develop our industry and give industry new opportunities and new challenges. Thursday 20 February 2003 was a big brand day in Telemark. At that time, more than 6,000 people went on torch trains to demand gas for Grenland. The demonstration took place during the "Tenn a New Flame for Grenland" poster. Let me say it so that it became a really burning and flaming commitment. More than 6,000 people would show the whole country that they were busy securing jobs and developing industry in Grenland and Norway. I'm very proud of this commitment. Today is a new brand day for Grenland and Telemark. 15 March 2005 will go into industrial policy history forever. It is a joy and joy over the agreement that the Labour Party and the Government Party have now come into being. It is important at a time when industry is struggling and jobs in industry are showing a negative trend. The decision today will gather all the good forces in Telemark, so that we can realize a gas pipeline and get a new industrial venture in the 20th century. The largest industrial cluster in Norway is located in the border region, where we have many large enterprises that depend entirely on a sheep for a new and profitable business in order to develop and be competitive. In addition, Grenland is perhaps the most competent professional community in Norway for the process industry. Border has infrastructure, experience and people who are perfectly suited to exploiting the gas resources of the sea. The country needs gas, and it would be totally wrong not to take care of and use the gifts that nature has given us. The Norwegian people have a great ownership of these natural resources, and for these owners we want jobs. We want opportunities for development and future-optimism – no.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1217	Today, the starting point for facilitating the use of natural gas in an environmentally friendly way throughout the country. A lot of people are looking at this. Not least in the gas district of Hordaland, this helps to stimulate optimism, creativity and progress. As the use of natural gas and as the transport demand also increases, the requirement for good natural gas infrastructure is also increased. Greater pressure is again placed on public engagement, coordination and organisation. However, in the areas where there is or will be a land fall, there will be good opportunities for the use of natural gas as energy and/or as raw material. In today's message, the Government presents transport solutions for domestic use of natural gas. Here, different transport solutions are pointed out, depending on the needs and practical circumstances. The transport of natural gas may be by ship, tanker or pipe. A provision for State involvement is that it occurs in cooperation with commercial actors. If industry and, where appropriate, other users together with commercial operators commit themselves to more long-term receipt and use of natural gas and to co-financing, the State company must enter into compliance with the conditions for participation. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the clear clarifications made in the debate today. Among other things, both the Council of State, the committee leader and others have stated that the conclusion of the processing of this message is that this is not a priority of a single area, i.e. not a locational matter, but a confirmation that natural gas is a resource to benefit the whole country. As a result, the treatment of this message is based on further growth and development in the whole country, from the Swedish border in the south-east to the Russian border in the north-east.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1230	It is positive that the Storting will today take the decision that we should use more natural gas in this country. It is positive that a majority of the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, together with commercial operators, are giving Statnett and another State Company the task of engaging in concrete discussions with the Grenland and Trøndelag industries in order to realise gas transport pipelines. The intention of the State to participate in and finance such a large-scale effort has been long-term in the Workers' Party. When do we get a majority? With gas to Grenland, Eastfold is also much closer to a gas pipeline. But we know that it will take time, and in the meantime Eastfold is dependent on transporting LNG by boat. That is why it is good that the Committee should also, among other things, writes: ‘public support is necessary for private operators wishing to expand gas pipelines or LNG transport installations at an introductory or development stage, in order to make gas more accessible in new areas’. This is largely true of Eastfold, where almost immediately industry can use 100 million. Sm3, because there are few and large industrial companies to use this LNG – Borregaard, Peterson, etc. LNG will replace heavy fuel oil and will immediately lead to major environmental improvements. That's good. But here, as in all other companies competing internationally, this industry cannot apply solutions that are more expensive than today's energy sources. Therefore, the allocation of LNG infrastructure needs to be significantly increased beyond the year’s framework. It is necessary to establish legislation and a charging regime which also contributes to the promotion of the use of LNG in industry and in the transport sector and which ensures competition at all stages. In Eastfold, the woodworking industry will be the heaviest buyer of LNG. Eastfold needs gas, and it's urgent, for example. to take care of the 3,000 industrial jobs we currently have in the three-processing industry. This is a step on the right track, and I think it's going to serve the industry in Eastfold and the whole country quite significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1251	Until now, Norwegian gas has been used to a modest extent domestically as a basis for industrial development, with one important exception, namely Grenland. As of the mid-1970s, a Norwegian-scale production and competence environment developed with Norwegian natural gas as a raw material. Over the last few years, there has been an increasingly pressing need to ensure that this industrial environment delivers the raw material safely and in the long term in order to ensure both industrial workplaces and Norwegian industrial competence. Therefore, SV is concerned that the industrial use of natural gas as a raw material is ensured good framework conditions in the coming years. And for Grenland's part, it can best be secured through a pipe solution for this delivery. In addition to the high level of competence in the industrial exploitation of natural gas, considerable competences in the field of environmental technologies have also been built in Grenland. The location of the company Gassnova just to Grenland will also help to strengthen and further develop this environment of competence. It is this company that is responsible for state innovation activities and technology developments in CO2 management and gas opportunities to contribute to a more positive global environmental development. On this very basis, SV wants a gas pipeline to Grenland, in addition to helping to ensure raw material access to industry, to be part of an offensive environmental project. This is also the reason why SV sets as a prerequisite for a gas pipeline to Grenland that CO2 capture and management should be established. Knowing that three of the five largest points of CO2 in Norway are located in Grenland, it will be well suited in this area to capture so much CO2 that the CO2 offshore injection project can be realised and thus make a significant contribution to the reduction of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. This must also be seen in the close context of Skagerak Energy's gas power plant plans with CO2 management in Grenland. With today’s proposal by the SV and the Central Party to establish a state company to address the CO2 value chain and to deliver it to the receiver for injection or landfill, Norway has a unique opportunity here to take a long step forward to fulfil our obligations in relation to the Kyoto Agreement. I think it is sad that the bulk of the population does not seize this opportunity today. What is gratifying is that the high level of involvement shown by many actors in Grenland and Telemark over several years now leads to an overall increase, with different premises from different parties, which requires active work to establish a pipeline for the landing of gas into Grenland. This will provide a good basis for safeguarding and further developing the country's largest industrial environment based on gas as a raw material.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1284	An efficient and well-developed gas transport network is essential in order to strengthen the competitiveness of business and thus lay the basis for a future high value creation. This is essential in order to ensure the long-term welfare of the country in a situation such as this. petroleum revenues will be lower than the country's commitments to an increasing proportion of the elderly in the population. This must also lead to the conclusion that investment in socially viable infrastructure is absolutely necessary to ensure regions and thus business competitiveness at national and international level. We must have an industrial perspective in our thinking on pipelines and on the future. We must now lay the foundation for a modern, forward-looking industry based on this industrial resource. Fortunately, in my area, Rogaland, we have two companies that over time have seen these things, Gasnor in the North and Light Energy in the South. They have now implemented this, not because of the involvement of the State, but despite the involvement of the State. We now see clearly the result of this, and it can be very successful. It is also important to note that the labour force is not always the main component of a total cost. Infrastructure is also important here, both in terms of raw materials and technology. But the benefit of gas is the environmental aspect. Natural gas provides significant environmental savings as the gas replaces both oil, propane and electricity. Domestic use of gas also reduces the need for imports of electricity, electricity produced from both coal and nuclear power in other countries. Consumption in the main Norwegian gas exports countries only increases, while self-production in Europe’s largest market, the United Kingdom, is declining. We also have to bring this with us. In this debate, I would like to recall the date of 8 June 1995, when the Communication ‘Norway as a gas nation — Use of Natural Gas in Norway’ was presented. It was then the energy minister Jens Stoltenberg who provided the gas communication in 1995. The main objectives of the gas policy were as follows: Gas resources shall provide the country with income and contribute to ensuring well-being and employment.Gas resources shall contribute to a better environment by being a competitive alternative to coal and nuclear power.Gas resources shall contribute to strengthening Norwegian industry and industrial development. So this was presented in 1995. Now we're in 2005. Now this has to become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1309	There has been an clarifying and useful debate in this matter here in the Chamber today. This is a matter of great local interest throughout the country, of course also in Eastfold. The Christian People's Party wants to use the gas also in Norway, not just by selling to the rest of the world. Gas is a very important resource for our industrial production. There is reason to point out the possibility of using gas to replace, in whole or in part, heavy oil in industrial production for the benefit of new petrochemical activities. This gives us all the opportunity to get an environmental benefit in Norwegian business. The gas will come in pipes, among others. to the border area. This will undoubtedly open up the possibility of a gas pipeline into Oslofjorden, connected to Eastfold, if the need is present in the future. Today’s needs in Eastfold will be met, according to the notification, when LNG is transported on ships. We're happy with this. But then there will be an opening for a gas pipeline to Eastfold when the amount of gas makes this need present. This will give new optimism to an older industrial group. The gas will provide new industrial opportunities to the industrial community of Eastfold – then at competitive prices, we require.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1318	Finally, we have come to the conclusion that the Storting agrees to use our large gas resources for domestic industry. The fact that Grenland is the industrial area in which it must first be invested has meant the Workers' Party for many years. From the setting, I have noticed that the entire committee believes that public support for private operators is necessary in order to start building out pipelines for gas or LNG transport facilities – this in order to make gas more accessible in new areas. Eastfold is referred to as the current industrial use of LNG gas. But now let's look all over the country. Then we'll find big power industries, not least in Northern Ireland. This type of industry has good potential for using gas in its production. In addition, LKAB is actively working to become a major recipient of LNG in Sweden, and then a gas terminal must be built in Narvik. Furthermore, the industrial communities of Glomfjord, Rana and the sea, which all have perfect ports, will be current recipients. The lake is otherwise in the process of building an anode factory to NOK 2 billion, and the supply of LNG would be a big boost when the process starts. Today, there are no good solutions in Northern Ireland for the distribution of LNG. I think it is absolutely necessary to now find solutions that will allow the whole country to make use of the gas resources. In addition to the industrial sites in Northern Ireland, we have island communities that do not have industrial development opportunities due to insufficient capacity in the mains power grid, for example, training on the Helgeland coast. The fish factory there can't actually run with full production, because then people lose the light in their houses. I therefore ask the Council of State: is this something to be familiar with in an energy country like Norway? If it is not put down new cable for training, you need to find other solutions. A kogen plant would help in the whole situation. Such a facility has been used by large caves in the municipality of Sund in Hordaland. Can I expect the Council of State to contribute to finding solutions for the Training Society, a society with zero unemployment? What we need in the north is to build an LNG cargo boat that delivers gas to at least two terminals on the Nordic coast. The reduction potential is calculated to be at least 2 to 4 TWh.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1329	As I said in a previous article, this is a positive and result-oriented setting. But when during a year ago the Stortinget dealt with the expansion plan for the Worm Lange, there was a positive signal on the organization of Nyhamna for the extraction of gas in the direction of the Fränna from a near-gathering collapse. It has been mildly said monthly that the pipeline from Nyhamna is not mentioned in the setting. Unlike the state councils, I interpret it as genuine interest both from business and from politicians in the state and not as – as the state council calls it – Christmas greetings. When I enter the setting, I do not interpret it as being that it is not appropriate to realize any pipeline from Nyhamna. As I also pointed out earlier, here in the setting, it points out that pipelines are most relevant where the economic perspective is compared to the distance between the market and the source of gas. From Nyhamna it is two kilometers to the market, with e.g. Hustadmarmor, which is the second largest consumer of energy in Moor and Romesdal. More and Romsdal is a state that has a deficit of energy per year. date. Our task should be to remove the insecurity created, and I hope that the Council of State will also help. So far, I am pleased that both the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party have shared my view, that although Nyhamna is not mentioned, that city can also be assessed and treated in a non-discriminatory way. In my reply to the Council of State, I asked if she shared the views of former Council of State Steensnæs. I did not request a pre-guarantee. What I asked for was an answer as to whether one could expect Nyhamna to be treated in the same way as other pipeline projects. It should be relevant when you look at the ratio that this is a distance of two kilometers, with a cost of less than 100 million. kr. So this is a serious question, which I think requires more than a fluffy answer about Christmas greetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1340	It is to be assumed that the debate is about to end. But I feel the need to give a little feedback to Grethe G. Fossum, who came quickly into the hall, was very aggressive in his appearance, and then went again – and is therefore not present when the answer comes. That's what we're going through. Let me clarify the following: It is not right, as the representative Grethe G. Fossum claimed, that the government had locked the door for a pipe solution against Grenland, or for that matter, against Trøndelag. On the other hand, the message was open to such a solution when some assumptions were in place, and on which they were then specifically challenged. This applies specifically in relation to volume, in relation to willingness to pay in respect of long-term contracts, and in relation to participation on the investment side. It was a proper strategy from the Government to choose it, because then the Grenlands environment and industry were challenged to participate. That's what Grenland says. Then it's the Storting's job to respond positively to it, and that's what we've done through this deal. Then we register through the post to Grethe G. Fossum that she was in some sort of febrile pursuit of taking the credit from someone and desavusing others. We'll take that as an expression that someone can talk a little over on a happy day – because this is a happy day. Grethe G. Fossum knows relatively little about what's going on behind the scenes, just as little as we know what's going on at the Workers' Party group meetings. We're not supposed to know that either. But there's a process that we all have to respect, and that makes one swallow not create one of ours. There is a result of a common promise where the Government has been in agreement throughout this process, and the result that exists today is something that the Government and the government parties in the Biggest stand a hundred percent behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1349	I must say it was disappointing reading when I saw the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment when it came to gas development. I think it's defensive, and I don't think it's much visionary when it comes to the long-term – except my own party, of course, has written. It is also a bit typical that the largest investment project in Norway, the Worm Lange, is never mentioned in one word from either the Labour Party or the Government Party. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party was visiting Mora and Romesdal, and we got the explanation of why this was not mentioned: Yes, it was of course local gas use on Aukra and Worm Lange and Fränna, that it was not necessary to mention it in a big message. Well, it's really great that that's the case. Since I don't see Steensnæs in the hall, I might ask his descendants in the Council of State, Councillor Widvey. We know, and it is gratifying, that we should have State involvement in the financing of domestic pipeline-based gas transport, and that would be necessary to introduce the gas as a future energy bearer to compensate for the strongly increasing domestic oil and electricity consumption. It is important that such schemes are general and can be used in projects that are over time socio-economic and business-economically viable. The planned transmission pipe from the Ormen Lange plant at Nyhamna in Aukra and to the mainland of Fränna Municipality will be in question from my state. This is a time-critical project, in which implementation decisions are urgently needed. Hydro actually wants to fix it. It is justified that one of the great advantages of adding gas pipelines will be that they will be combined with the other installations in the expansion of the Worm Lange plant in the coming years. The question is then – based on the Hydro mein, and based on what Steensnæs said when he was in More and Romesdal: Is it so that the stakeholders for gas pipelines from Nyhamna to Fräna can go into matters with the State on co-financing of gas pipelines under the same conditions as for the projects mentioned in the Committee setting, Grenland and Skogn, as it was of course with the local use of the gas resources in Nyhamna that it was not necessary to mention it in the whole message?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1358	The representative Fossum had some assessments of the relationship between the Government, the Government Parties and the Energy and Environment Committee on how to deal with these things in the Stortinget. What is important, seen with my eyes, is that a message was sent from the Government where, with the figures on which it was based, it could not be profitable with pipe solutions to Grenland – a little different to Forest, but there were other problems inside the picture. That committee leader, Brother Yngve Rahm, and I've been doing it for a long time, is to have contact with the particular environment in Grenland, and in Trøndelag, in and off. We've given a lot of talks and every time we make it clear that it's possible to get pipe solutions to these places, it has to be profitable in the long term. It must also be such that it is involved and there must be a high level of commitment to putting the gas into service. When the government has submitted a message saying that with the current calculations you don't see profitability in it, it's the Storting's job, in my opinion, to say that there have been new assessments here, and they are discussed in close cooperation with the Government. The contact between the depositors and the Government must be close. And it's been in this case. This has given rise to a solution that the Government is fully behind, that the Christian People's Party is completely behind, that the Left is behind, and that the Right is behind. In my opinion, this must be done in order to get a good assessment and treatment in the Storting of the issues presented. So it's not like there are individuals in this committee working on this. Here it is that one must have close and good cooperation. And I can trust the President that before noon. 7 in the morning there are intense discussions between the committee leader, Brother Yngve Rahm, and me about how to deal with some of these matters. So we're completely in line with this. Then there's a question of why you haven't mentioned all the other places in the country that want gas. I tried in my post to say that this must be a transparent system. This has to be a system that you can go into and say that we also meet many of these requirements. It's important. But all the places that can be possible, but where there has not been an involvement of individuals – that you have not said how to contribute, how to co-finance, how to develop these concepts – have not been mentioned by name. But that is why it is so important that this should be transparent that they also have opportunities. And that's what we hope and think we're going to be done. I look forward to the continuation. I think the Council of State has been very clear today about how this should be handled further. This should be a good thing, to which the vast majority of people in this room should be able to join without great reservations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1373	The President understands that this must be a committee for morning birds.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1377	In the examination of this notification, the Storting provides the final basis for using the gas for industrial purposes and for power generation. It's about time. We are a major exporter of gas, but the use in Norway has been very economical. Today, the starting point for State participation in the financing of natural gas infrastructure and transport solutions is the start point. Statnet and others get a clear signal to contribute to pipe solutions also for industrial purposes, I believe. This is also a follow-up to a proposal that I accompanied, that the Norwegian gas treatment industry and the petrochemical industry should have access to gas. Outside Middle Norway, we have huge amounts of gas, including: Worm Lange. The great opening for the transport and use of gas on land fits as a hand in our hands with our opportunities in More and Romesdal, and in Middle Norway for the rest, in order to obtain future value creation. On the Tjeldbergodden, methanol is already produced on a large scale – with expansion plans – alongside other production where one uses gas. The area has also been cleared for gas power plants. The possibilities we now have must be seized. Landing of the gas from Worm Lange to Augra makes it possible to obtain profitable gas pipelines from the gas terminal at Augra and to the mainland, e.g. To Uncle. The size of the government’s contribution is good – on a general basis. The frames that the Storting now pulls up make it possible to obtain pipe solutions and necessary branch pipes. Landing to the mainland provides gas for several major energy consumers. Not least Hustadmarmor. This is a major player in the world market who needs both gas and has presented very exciting projects, including projects where large amounts of CO2 can be linked from a gas power plant if it is to be built nearby. I would also like to remind you that the area we are now talking about is an area of severe underbalance in terms of force. Gas-fired power plants could solve this a long way. This would limit significant transmission losses in the network — in case of long-distance transport into the area — and could prevent the development of new large power lines. This could also save you a lot of money. Thus, putting into service the gas is economically viable and will bring significant environmental benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1393	I note that the Right includes the Left in the agreement. We have to assume – since they are in the Government – that they are in agreement with the agreement and the proposal that has significant negative greenhouse gas impacts. But the left has not itself chosen a position in the hall today. The council replied to the question of further reconciliation that SV was too expensive – as I interpret it – with our requirements for CO2 management, CO2 treatment, CO2 injection and possible solutions related to it. Now one might hang in the price and say that there is one possible angle, but we assume that if one had got things like this, it would have been a cost sharing, a split layer, like the Government itself – and SV – adding up when it comes to pipes, for example. to Grenland. But it's kind of classic that the price is going to be the only value for the right. The price that nature and climate pay should arouse greater interest in the Right Party. But he doesn't. We will deal later today with a case of flood compensation, such as: are linked to the greenhouse gas problem. It also has a cost. One now sees that insurance companies around the world are starting to take an interest in reducing greenhouse gas emissions – precisely because they are on the cost side. The calculation is of little interest to the Right, records SV. But I was so well aware that the problems that greenhouse gas emissions create in the third world, and the price it has through countless deaths associated with this, are not so interesting to the Right. It wasn't very unexpected. SV is very much for gas to the industry, not least when it leads to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. That is the condition of our policy associated with the use of gas. We want to make Norwegian industry world-leading within climate and environment. Someone would say, "We already are." That's so true, but there's still things to do. Therefore, SV is listed by the industry framework. For this reason, we are busy working with the trade and process industries, linking up with industrial power supplies. That is why we are also concerned that we are cancelling the CO2 tax, so we are not going to frame the industry, as PIL now says. We are very surprised that the process industry itself in a press release today says that we should impose new taxes on industry. That's not true. The process industry already has a regime. That regime shall be developed. That regime has an agreement. Of course, that agreement is also followed up by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1418	The government's policy for increasing the use of environmentally friendly natural gas is presented in St.meld. No 9 for 2002-2003 on the domestic use of natural gas, etc. The cooperation organisation emphasises the importance of facilitating the use of more natural gas in domestic value-added. St.meld. No 47 for 2003-2004, which we are dealing with today, follows up the commitment to facilitate more use of natural gas. The use of natural gas in Norway is currently close to the landing sites in the West. Landing sites are a very important industry in itself. They have been decisive in putting natural gas to use for the valuables of mainland Norway. Two new landing sites, in Hammerfest and in Aukra in More and Romesdal, can provide a basis for growth in several places in the country. Users in the vicinity of the five landing locations have a sample of natural gas in place of users elsewhere in the country. This gives industry in the region great potential. It has been said from the Christian People's Party earlier in the debate today that the decision today that the state company should start discussions with the industry in Grenland and Trøndelag, should not appear to be exclusive to other projects, but on the contrary give evidence that the industry elsewhere is also committed to increasing the use of natural gas, which is the most environmentally friendly fossil fuel we know. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the gas can be used for local and regional value creation. Landing of the gas to Nyhamna in More and Romesdal may provide support for sustaining and further developing local industry. Business and industry in the region, etc. Hustadmarmor, has shown great interest in the exploitation of gas resources. There's a lot of commitment in More and Romesdal to the use of natural gas. It is important that we have an offensive policy in this area. Since several people have referred to the visit as Einar Steensnæs and I have had in More and Romesdal, it is important to clear the way of the misunderstandings that have been. Some people interpret the decision today so that it is Grenland and Trøndelag alone to give priority to it, and that it can therefore have an exclusive effect on all other good projects. That's not correct. That is why it is very important that it is also emphasised in the debate today. This is a happy day compared to the fact that we want to focus more on the use of natural gas in all places where there are potentials for it. That is why there is every reason to be glad that an offensive continues to work on these important challenges, and that in the future one will be able to facilitate the highest possible use of natural gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1433	I would like to inform you that this committee has also worked at night. It was after dinner that Norges Bank held, that Leif Frode Onarheim and I sat and negotiated to get a result that we could provide. So here it's working early and late! I note that the committee leader, Brother Yngve Rahm, has not seen the representative Fossum aggressively, if he claims she was aggressive today. I think he should be happy about that. To clarify things that have been advanced in the word change, I have asked for the word. As for the Christian People's Party and the committee's chairman's claim that this message was a natural follow-up to the previous gas message, I will take complete distance from it. I actually think that the Grenlands community knows exactly what happened last time, then there was a boat and a boat that was the solution from the Government. And if there's anyone in doubt, they can read the settings and the debate on the previous message we're dealing with. I understand that the Christian People's Party needs to talk away from previous conciliation with the Socialist Left Party, but I believe that it can only be justified that it is approaching elections, including in Grenland. The claims made by the committee leader are a bypass of the truth, and outside this house would have a well-known lie. I'm not going to do that. In honor of the Christian People's Party, it is said that the Christian People's Party has been exposed to the construction of pipes for almost three years. They've done it. But it's probably just the Socialist Left Party and the Left Party who think it's honorable. In the Labour Party, we regret the result. As far as the Advance Party is concerned, it is said that the Advance Party asked over fifty questions to the Government in its time to clarify the Sem declaration. The Progress Party is therefore, of course, aware of what is stated in the Sem-Declaration. Nevertheless, the party promoted a proposal here in the house – as I remember – to give confidence to the Bondevik government, and they voted for it. The Workers' Party is not responsible for the current government and the policies of the Government. It is primarily the Progress Party that has. We are, however, exceptionally happy that we have now come so close to a choice that we have actually got the government girl in relation to being part of building industry. I think we can stand up for that and be proud of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1452	The president is still impressed by all the evidence of the committee's work around the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1455	I think this has been a very good debate. It shows that there is a strong willingness to increase the domestic use of natural gas in Norway. I think that's incredibly good. It is also a good example of the government's policy in relation to both electricity certificates and, not least, gas power technology with CO2 management. The debate is mostly about gas infrastructure. I'm very glad that from different points of view you underline how important it is to continue to bet on LNG using ships as well. In many parts of Norway, it will actually be the best solution. It's not just the most profitable solution, but for practical reasons it's also the best solution. I am very happy that there is broad support for it. In the case of pipes, I feel a very strong need to stress why it is now interesting to go on. I notice once again that in the message that Stortinget is dealing with, it says that on the basis of the information it had from the environment in Grenland in relation to the willingness to pay, and also in terms of volume, it was found that with that number material it was not economically profitable to build this pipe. Up to several times I have challenged different environments both in Grenland and elsewhere in this, and I now think this is a very good proof that you have now delivered. Firstly, you have shown the willingness to prove that there is an increased willingness to pay more for the gas. Secondly, there is a documented need that there will be a larger volume that can be used to build a pipe. That's what it seems interesting to go further, while also stressing that there is a greater willingness to engage on the investment side also in this environment, not only in relation to Grenland, but also in relation to Trøndelag. I would like to say that in the case of the other areas – because it may seem that there are many different environments that have now been in focus that would like them to have been mentioned in this setting – that is, as it was underlined by, among other things. The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, not so that it excludes other areas even though one now enters and looks at the two areas in which it has been most focused and which have been part of the basis for the debate, and which was also mentioned in the Government's figures when this communication was presented. I want to stress that in the case of the Aukra, there is a tremendous commitment in this region, given what's happening to the Worm Lange. There is a significant commitment on the part of the rightholders, who have put down a lot of money and invested in order to actually use the gas in the Aukra municipality, and on the part of the municipality, a great deal of work has been done to help make use of the possibility of using natural gas in the local environment there. It is important to stress that what is now achieved with regard to new schemes, in case, in order to contribute to an infrastructure system, must be transparent and it must be possible for it to be used elsewhere in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1469	Brother Yngve Rahm has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1472	I discovered that the level of the debate is falling as you get tired. Rolf Terje Klungland is an example of that. We have different assessments of what is both in the first message and in the second one. I certainly believe that these are two messages that are very close together. It has something to do with the assumptions, as the Council of State has now pointed out, which have been there from the very beginning of the first gas notification. Then you answer that the possibility of a pipe solution, whether it's against Grenland or against other areas, could be relevant when certain assumptions are in place. So it's this to say to the representative Rolf Terje Klungland: it's my assessment of an event course and a story. I respect that it is not certain that Rolf Terje Klungland read the first gas message, and that he thus has a different conclusion. But I read it. Then I respect that Klungland has a different assessment of the history picture. I'll take note of that. But I react when he uses the concepts of ‘ lie’ from Storting’s pulpit, even though there is a willochic way of trying to get away from what is actually said. So I just point out again that there is an end to the debate that I actually think we could agree not to happen, when we actually have a settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1481	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fotation, see page 1815]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1497	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1506	That's the second time in a very short time the same type of case is being treated here in the Storting. It comes of course that this is important. The flames are hard frames, and they are brutally frames. It is a great burden for those who are subjected to it, and for those who are subject to it. Saka indicates that in recent years more areas in the country have been affected by flooding and that it has done a great deal of damage. For the communities that become the framework, it will be difficult both to secure themselves in advance and to clean up after such flaps. The floods that hit parts of the North-West both in 2003 and 2004 are examples of flooding that caused damage to significant amounts. In 2003, the losses due to flooding were estimated at 112 million. kr, and the damage caused by storm and storm floods was estimated at 150 million. kr. That's big numbers. As far as the Committee is concerned, the Committee agrees on this Romantal Decision: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review legislation and practices regarding the territorial share of flood prevention and de-flood remediation in order to make this more accurate and fair.’ So over to part two. This is not where the Committee stands. I'm assuming that the different parties will come back with their point of view. The central part here belongs to the minority, which means that after flooding, flood prevention and remediation are to be fully covered by the state. There's every reason to believe that there will be new big noises in the years to come. Research reports say that we can expect climate change that leads to more rainfall and more wind in the years to come. The UN has an own climate panel that has followed and that follows developments closely, and they have demonstrated that man-made climate problems are increasing. The leader of this panel, Dr. Robert Watson, said at the conference on the Hague Convention in 2000: ‘The question is no longer whether climate change will take place, but rather where they take place, how large they will be and how fast they will take place.’ With this in mind, there is enough reason to assume that the frequency and size of flooding damage in the future will increase. Now, current practice is such that the urgent measures in their entirety are funded by the State, but for the remaining damage, a district share of 20 pst is required. This requirement is usually directed to the municipalities, which can again direct them to the landowners. This may be monthly amounts, which may be unreasonably high for small and deferred areas. In former flukes, both in 1995 and 1997 in Austria, the state went in and covered 100 pst. of the costs. The decision was then made on the matter in a single decision. Then you have to be able to understand from here that this can be perceived as an injustice by those who have later been the victim of major flooding, and who have to thank you for 80 pst. The Government Party and the Workers' Party write in their comments, among others. on the district share: ‘The majority will further point out that the requirement for a district share contributes to ensuring that there are well-founded needs underlying the action, as well as contributing to local responsibilities and ownership of the measures.’;» It is for me to draw it well far when it says that a district share is necessary for people to take responsibility locally. It might sound like the plural thinks there's speculation in this. Natural disasters are dramatic and usually have great human and material costs. In our opinion, it should be a matter of course that all of these things are covered up 100 pst. It is therefore a pity that there are no pluralities for the second part of the proposal. I want to point to a small municipality that was very hard on 27 September 2004. It was the municipality of Vanylven. I fully understand that municipalities find that they are in a difficult situation, and that they thought it was an untimely arrangement from Stortinget's side. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1541	The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1544	The Working Party has assessed this Document No. The 8th proposal in the light of three issues: climate change, local economics and better performance security and justice in the area of state compensation. Research reports show that we can expect climate change, with more rainfall and more wind, in the years to come. This may mean more frequent flooding, and the size of flood damage in the future may increase. Everyone in this room knows that the local economy in everyday life is not so much to boast about, and the problem is how to deal with a disaster situation like a flood can be. It has therefore been important for the Workers' Party to find a fair and fair regime for the compensation of floods. We want the Government to review legislation and practices regarding district share in flood prevention and flood remediation. Our wish is that the state should play a slightly greater role and assume a greater responsibility for flood prevention and remediation. The reason why we do not fully support the proposal of the minority is that this proposal to go in for 100 pst. coverage by the State would render II superfluous in proposals for decisions. There is no reason for a review to consider the fairness of this, if legislation has already been decided to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1555	We are now considering for the second time in nine months proposals to change the rules on compensation in the event of flooding. The last time we dealt with an almost equivalent proposal, it was the flood of the North West and Trondelag in August 2003. This time there is a change in the rules on compensation on a general basis. The guidelines for the compensation of the municipalities concerned in the event of flood damage received a thorough treatment through the 1997 Storing Communication on measures to combat floods. The majority at Stortinget then thought that the proportion of the municipalities should be maintained. Flood and erosion protection measures provide lasting benefits to local interests. Therefore, it is reasonable that beneficiaries of benefits in the form of hedging measures also contribute to financing through a proportion of equity. The requirement to share in the district contributes to ensuring that there are well-founded needs underpinning the actions requested and contributes to local responsibility and ownership of the actions. When the issue of regional participation in the North-West and Trøndelag was dealt with last June, the majority, consisting of the government parties and the Labour Party, felt that the conditions for coverage of the district share had not changed since the Stortinget dealt with this issue in 1997. However, the Stortinget has also decided that Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate may reduce or deviate from the requirement for district share in some cases. Therefore, the State covered 100 pst by decision of the Stortinget. the costs of damage floods in the East in 1995 and 1997. This occurred on the basis of the need for rapid repair of the hedging facilities in order to prevent damage to the values to be protected by the installations and to avoid damage to the hedging facilities themselves. The extent of the damage caused by these large floods was such that it was not possible to implement the measures within ordinary budgetary resources. The right continues to believe that it is reasonable for local communities to participate in the financing of flood prevention and flood damage compensation. We have the same attitude towards this as we did nine months ago. However, we understand the argument that it seems unreasonable to have deviated in individual cases from the requirement of excess in the event of flood damage, while others have to pay a 20 pst. self-proprietary. The right can therefore see the need to re-examine the guidelines for compensation for flood damage, so that we ensure the greatest possible level of non-discrimination, while taking into account that there may be cases where the extent of the flood damage is so great that a percentage of the excess can impose a disproportionate financial burden on individual municipalities, which they do not have the opportunity to bear. It is therefore necessary to strike a balance between the requirement of non-discrimination and flexibility. I hope that this review, which the majority are asking for here today, will help.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1568	Let me first say that we are happy that we get a majority for one part of our proposal, that we get a review. But we are of course disappointed that this should not apply to Moors and Romesdal and South-Trundellag. Otherwise, I think the case rapporteur gave a clear explanation of the matter, and can join in what was said there. With regard to the proposal that does not get a majority, we are disappointed with the Workers' Party, especially since the Workers' Party was very active in the media in front of this case and signalled that they were going to support the proposal. So when you come to the reality, the Workers' Party has jumped off the load and made sure that this does not get a majority. There are a number of municipalities in More and Romesdal and South Trøndelag. It is worrying because this is simply becoming a discrimination. In 1995 and 1997, when floods occurred in other parts of the country, the Stortinget decided to cover this in full. Now there will be a discrimination. Then you can ask the question: why do you make such a discrimination? Is it the lotbook that decides who is to be compensated or not? Is it perhaps LO who prints on his representatives, who makes sure that this gets a majority or not a majority? It is quite unfortunate that it is perhaps the trick factor – excuse the expression – that determines whether the Storting should provide compensation or not. For us in the Progress Party, justice is that you treat everyone the same, the most important thing. That is why, of course, we believe that these municipalities in Møre and Romesdal and Süd-Trøndelag should be treated in the same way as the municipalities in 1995 and 1997. Because, as the rapporteur says, it is quite difficult to predict when a flood comes. A flood costs a lot of money, and of course it's hard to cover it in municipal budgets. But as I said, making this a fair system, where the different municipalities are treated on the basis of others, more political motives, is the most important thing for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1579	I'll try to give this debate a slightly more international perspective. The rainforest fund presented its report last Thursday on the state of the rainforest. The rainforest is cut down at too high a pace. This leads to a dangerous reduction in biodiversity, but it also leads to more floods in southern countries. We should prevent this through, for example: imposing restrictions on Norwegian imports of rainforest timber. At the same time, we must take on board the fact that the greatest environmental policy challenge today is man-made climate change. If greenhouse gas emissions continue in the same way as today, we are likely to be affected by more floods and other climate-related natural disasters. In this way, I will challenge the Progress Party to take this perspective further when they here will replace the losses of municipalities, which may increase if the climate policy of the Progress Party is given a majority. There are many municipalities that are struggling with poor municipal economy. This is about having a government and a municipal minister feeding these municipalities. Of course, experiencing a flood disaster with massive damage, where they themselves have to cover much of the cost of cleaning up, does not make the situation any better. There is no doubt that there will be discrimination between the municipalities affected by floods in 1995 and 1997, which then covered 100 pst. of the costs, and the municipalities affected by the floods today, who experience only 80 pst. of the costs. At the same time, it is important to point out that many NVE prevention measures receive too little funding. Representatives from flooded municipalities meeting the Committee said that the waiting time for some of these measures could be up to 10 years. There is a risk that a new flood will be struck before the prevention measures have been implemented. SV hopes that today's decision will mean that the problem of floods will be taken more seriously, both in the short term through better support schemes and also in the long term through a responsible and forward-looking climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1594	Flom can be seen as dramatic for those affected, and both landowners and municipalities can be burdened with heavy expenditure. Then it's important that we have a cost recovery system that is both fair and accurate. It is only when permanent measures are implemented in water that the district has to cover a 20 pst share. Crisis measures taken to avert imminent danger to human life or damage to larger values immediately before, during and after a flood are fully financed by the State. This was also done for the floods in South-Trøndelag and the North-West in 2003 and 2004. Even if a district share is to be paid in the case of permanent insurance measures, the current system provides a flexible solution. Measures of major societal importance may be fully financed by the State. For safeguard measures that reduce the risk of loss of life and greater material values, e.g.: as a result of mercury steps, or measures primarily justified for reasons of general interest, such as: to prevent contamination or to improve the conditions of fish in the watercourse. I note that the Stortinget is not fully satisfied with today's system, despite the fact that the issue of the district share has been dealt with here in the house several times in recent years. In fact, during a fifteen - year period, between 1976 and 1990, the district share was completely removed. During this period, the NVE recorded problems in bringing municipalities and landowners into economic evaluation and prioritisation of the measures, while at the same time increasing the amount of treatment. There was a background for the reintroduction of the scheme. The requirement to cover the regional share shall ensure that local interests participate in the priority of security measures and ensure that there are well-founded needs underpinning applications for state aid. Municipalities are responsible for land use under the Planning and Building Act. Full coverage of the costs of flood prevention by the State may result in less attention to the risk of flooding in flooded areas. Full State funding for all measures following floods of some size may also discriminate against the many municipalities and landowners that have participated and participate in the financing of other similar security measures that can be triggered, for example. in relation to fully local flood situations. But now the Government is going to review legislation and practices to ensure that the scheme is as accurate and fair as possible. The Government intends to come back with its review of the scheme in the 2006 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1618	It might be interesting to challenge the government's gas policy and the consequences it has for floods, but I'll leave it. What strikes me is that the Right does not believe that the municipalities are responsible and do not take responsibility for themselves, when they write in the comments: ‘The majority will further point out that the requirement for a district share contributes to ensuring that there are well-founded needs underlying the action, as well as contributing to local responsibilities and ownership of the measures.’;» What I'm asking is whether the Council of State knows some examples of municipalities having carried out a lot of protection measures against floods that have certainly not been needed. Have many measures been applied for because the municipalities did not have to pay any district share? Do you know it's been turned off like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1631	It will be of great interest to the Government, and also to the Right Party, to have a discussion about what the best climate policy should be like. We would like to take that challenge from SV on a tight arm, but I am not going to take the opportunity to do so in this post. In fact, even if you pay a regional share today, today's system is an opportunity to get flexible solutions where the state is fully funding this. As I said in my post, it concerns safeguards to reduce the risk of loss of life and greater material values, and also where the measures are primarily justified on grounds of general interest, such as: to prevent contamination. As I also said in my post, this district share was completely removed for a fifteen-year period, from 1976 to 1990, and then we experienced some problems. The NVE then registered that there were few municipalities and landowners involved in an economic assessment and prioritisation of the measures, and this led to a very difficult task of achieving a real priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1640	I acknowledge that for the second time in less than a year, some municipalities in More and Romesdal and in the South-Trøndelag will suffer defeat. Then I would like to pay attention to the letter from the Council of State, which is included as an attachment, where she writes that removing this district share could lead to less attention being paid to the father, etc. Seventh, a small town in the municipality of Vanylven, was very delayed. On September 27, 2004, when the flame came, the hospital was in danger, and those working there did an incredibly good job. They were standing on both night and day, and I don't think it was who was going to pay, who was in the head of them when they were doing this job. Does the Council of State really mean that the municipalities will discharge themselves from the responsibility of their inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1649	I can reassure the representative that the Council of State feels reasonably confident that the vast majority of the municipalities, probably all the municipalities in this country, take their inhabitants into account. As far as this scheme is concerned, some experience has actually been gained. From 1976 to 1990, the state took the whole bill for this. What happened then was that the NVE reported problems in getting municipalities and landowners involved in an economic assessment and prioritisation of the measures needed, while also recording a significant increase in the amount of treatment. The requirement to cover this proportion of districts is, of course, to ensure that local interests participate in the priority of security measures and to ensure that there are sound needs underlying the application for state aid. But as I said in my post, the government is going to review this matter again. We're going to turn all of the stones that are going to turn around, and we're going back to the Storting in connection with the 2006 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1658	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1663	We are likely to experience increasingly extreme weather, which can lead to damage both to nature, buildings and in some cases to people. These harms may be difficult to prevent even with preventive measures. Today the municipalities are left with a large part of the bill for such damage. There is money that the municipalities do not have, because none of us can expect a municipality to fund in order to deal with such a situation as the one we, among other things. has seen the emergence of More and Romesdal. Most of us have also acknowledged that, unfortunately, the local government economy has not improved, it has in some cases become worse, which further puts municipalities in a difficult situation. These are reasons why we now need to review state legislation, so that the State has a greater responsibility for the damage. This is a work that must be done with thoroughness, and it must not take a long time. Everyone in the Chamber who is taking part in this debate knows that Mr More and Mr Romsdal have been affected by this type of damage both in 2003 and 2004 and that the economic consequences are too great, yes too great, for the municipalities concerned to be able to cover 20 pst. of this. I think we have to admit that right over here. I therefore expect the government to take a thorough and rapid review, so that the damage can be repaired and the municipalities can get a fair settlement. The spokeswoman of the Workers' Party, Grethe Fossum, also said that the state had to contribute more strongly than before, and that's good. I also hope that the Council of State will contribute to this. Her posts here in the hall didn't scare me. I understood it so that she was set up for a thorough review, where one is just starting from the examples and what is the background to the matter today. Then I expect these municipalities to come out of this matter properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1672	First I want to say that I am pleased with what the Council of State Widvey said in her reply, where she referred to the legislation that is today, which actually gives the opening for 100 pst. coverage in some cases. That's one of the main points. When there are several of these issues, I don't know them well. But when it's about Vanylven, I was there right after the damage happened. The impression I'm left with in that case is that here's the discretion that's being exercised, that decides what's being replaced. As the legislation is, 100 pst is possible. coverage in the event of a risk to life and health. My impression was that it applied in large parts of this area. The signal this debate should give is that you might look at the beauty again. I'm also glad that one is going to review this code now, and look at how one can get it more accurate and fair. It will never be possible to create a code that covers all things, and that will be 100 pst. Covering. Therefore, you will always be left with the use of judgement. That will also be the case with a new legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1681	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1697	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1708	Inner. S. No 132, which we are dealing with today, is a suspension by the Committee on Transport to wind up the exclusive right of Posten Norge AS. In St. prp. No 34 for 2004-2005, the Ministry of Transport has proposed to wind up the limited right of access to postal items by Posten Norge AS. In the proposition, the department writes: ‘The objective of discontinuing the single right is to promote policy objectives on a nationwide service provision of good and reasonable postal services by facilitating increased competition in the postal market.’ In other words, the ministry believes that increasing competition should ensure good and reasonable postal services throughout the country, and the proposition clearly states that the department of my monopoly is over and that the proposed liberalisation is expected to have positive effects. In the setting, the Committee is composed in a few areas. There is a comprehensive committee that emphasises that one should further the requirements of the universal services and that the principle of the unit portfolio is passed on. A comprehensive committee also indicates that there have been major changes in the Post Norway AS, among others. with the sales network, where a large number of post offices have been closed. Instead, we have received ‘Post in store’ in many places. At the same time, several electronic services have also been used. The Committee as a whole is in favour of changes in service provision if this improves service provision for consumers. At the same time, the Committee has made it clear that electronic services alone cannot provide an adequate supply as a substitute for a post office. The Committee also agrees that the postal distribution will continue to take place six days a week or all professional days. There is also a common perception that the major changes the Post Norway AS has faced in recent years have led to major changes for the Post as an organisation. The main content of St.prp. No 34 is the proposal to wind up the rest of the one-stop shop in Norway. With changes to postal laws in 2003, a majority, with no participation of the Centre Party, decided to gradually reduce Post Norway AS’s exclusive right to transmit mail. In 2003, the Ministry announced that one would return to the possible liquidation of the rest of the one-offright. The proposal to wind up the rest of the single right The post office has had to transmit mail has been out on the phone. The hearing showed that there are differing views on the consequences of the liquidation of the monopoly of Posten from 1 January 2007. Several of the hearing aids are alarmed by the consequences for the districts. Many of the hearing bodies, including many of those who did not comment on the proposal itself to withdraw the right of access, pointed out that this proposal should not lead to poorer postal services in the districts. The Committee is divided when it relates to the view of the concrete proposal to wind up the remainder of the single right of the Post. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party, together with the Progress Party, have supported the proposal from the Ministry. The Labour Party, SV and the Senterpartie oppose the proposal. I expect the representatives of the other parties to do their best for their views. In the previous period, there was a large majority on the Stortinget – Labour Party, SV, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Left – who were aware that the Post would provide equivalent services at equal prices throughout the country. Through the concession, the Post has been assigned this task while the Post has had a monopoly on some services. Over the years, the post has been an important part of the infrastructure that has made it possible to maintain a scattered bus and business throughout the country. The Central Party has always placed great emphasis on the important societal task the Post has had, and we believe that this societal task should be emphasised in the future as well. When the Ministry has submitted the proposal to wind up the single right of the Post, the principle of winding up is the proposal. Many clarifications that need to be made in the wake of such a principle decision are not yet done. This is made clear by the proposal and also by the Ministry's replies to several of the questions raised by the Committee. The conclusion to many questions is that the department will come to Stortinget with a closer assessment and concrete recommendation, or that in a possible settlement it will be assessed, etc., etc. The proposition reads as follows: ‘There is little experience at international level in the exercise of one-off rights in the postal sector.’ Therefore, there is enough of what the Government has written in its proposal on consequences for the closure of the post-monopoly, not based on facts and experiences, but on what a ‘goes on’ is, and that a ‘meiner that’ is the expression used in the proposition. In the proposition, the Ministry has omitted to use the expression that postal services should be equivalent in quality and price throughout the country. Instead, the ministry uses the expression "good services" at competitive prices. In fact, it says, "Measures will be put in place to ensure that users are protected against unreasonable price differences." But what are unreasonably price differences? This is a bit of a mess, which is not defined in the proposition. It is clear that the Department accepts differences in both service and price. When a majority in 2003 decided on a gradual reduction of the Post Office’s one-off right, without fixing the final time for full winding-up, this decision was in line with the timetable set by the EU. When the Government will now wind up the single court from 1 January 2007, this is faster than the EU’s timetable. In addition, the EU has stated that before the possible closure of the post-monopoly in 2009, an assessment of its impact should be carried out. The Labour Party, SV and the Central Party agree on a comment that we do not find any reason why Norway should even move faster in liberalisation than the EU does. It must be a premise that a person is given an evaluation of the consequences of a free postal market before making any changes. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party also refer to ‘the right of singleness as a good means of promoting the geographical smoothing of prices’. Economically unprofitable services have been funded through one-off law and the unitary portfolio by the fact that the profits from the profitable services have covered the unprofitable services. On the other hand, the post has an equivalent national coverage of good and reasonable postal services. Together with the Workers' Party and the SV of the Centre, the consequences of the winding-up of the one-off right of Post Norway AS from 1 January 2007 could lead to poorer provision of districts and wide variation in quality and price in different parts of the country. The experience of Sweden, which is one of the countries that have already failed to do so, shows, among other things. that small postal customers have received an increase in postage prices. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party point out in their comments that competitive outsourcing does not necessarily lead to better supply and lower prices for customers throughout the country. There is a need to take heights for Norway to have specific challenges, including: Disadvantages in the distance of business and the spread of busnets. This makes it likely that only a small part of the country will be attractive to competing companies, and will easily lead to the loss of districts. In the proposition, the Government makes no clear proposals on how to prevent the loss of districts. The government also has no proposals on how to organise any government purchases of unpaid services. The fact that there can be a competitive discussion theme when it comes to the impact it will have on the districts can be linked to a statement by Didrik Seip in the management newspaper of the week. 9th@item: inlistbox He is formerly first amanuensis and researches post-questional questions for the investigation of power and democracy. He comments on the situation after the possible demonopolisation of the Post, and says among others. this: ‘The problem is that competition in the postal sector is difficult. It's mostly what in old days is called a natural monopoly. It is now sometimes called ‘essential facilities’. This means that if someone has postal deliveries in the branches, they must also include postal items for those providers that do not have deliveries in the branches. Those operating in the outings must be compensated for the costs and thus receive a partial monopoly. Here it is that more competition means more costs for the country and/or more expensive postal services. In any case, effective competition at all levels is not possible.’» Finally, I would just like to stress, as I have mentioned earlier, that the Central Party is voting against the decision taken in 2003 on the gradual winding-up of the post-monopoly, and we will today vote against the vote on the winding-up of the last remainder of the single right of the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1760	Today, the Storting deals with an important principle theme: the way forward for Posten Norge AS. The Government proposes to wind up the limited exclusive postal service of Posten Norge AS. The Government proposes to implement this from 1 January 2007. The government’s proposal to liberalise the postal market raises some issues about the future situation of Post Norway AS and the postal market in general. The entry Norge AS is operated after the conversion into a limited liability company according to commercial principles which in itself facilitate increased liberalisation and profit-thinking, irrespective of EU law. I am concerned that the Post Norway AS as an important Norwegian infrastructure is at risk of weakening as a result of further liberalisation of the postal market. Uncertainty remains linked to what the EU decides on the tempo plan. Decisions on the date of the full winding-up of the exclusive right are still not taken. On the other hand, the EU plans now provide for an evaluation of the impact after the 50-gram limit is introduced as of 1 January 2006. I therefore do not understand that Norway, which is a small market, is going to open up competition from other countries' postal companies before doing the same in their own country. On the contrary, we must hope that the evaluation of liberalisation will so far show that other countries/regions of the European Union will have the same issues as us and will review further liberalisation. As I have said, Norway AS may have problems if the Norwegian market is opened up, while other national postal companies still have protection in their own domestic markets. I express concern at Norway’s speeding up the closure of the exclusive rights area than the EU provides. We could have saved ourselves. I also wonder that the Government does not agree to follow the EU's progress and pace plan in the development towards a fully competitive Norwegian postal market, but burns to get to work faster. Let me take a little bit of a historical look back. The first stamp came out here in the country on 1 January 1855, after a similar postage system had been introduced for the whole country. That time, in the 1850s, it took between seven and nine days to bring a letter from Christiania to Bergen. The peasants were responsible for the shipment to land with horses and cattle. The boat was used along the coast. ‘The entry must appear’ is a known term. Bad roads, snow and storms did not stop the mail then. It went on honour and on pride loose. I hope the same will apply in the future. The single postal system with cross-subsidisation of correspondence has so far made it possible to offer quality postal services throughout the country at a reasonable price. The working party is uncertain as to how to maintain the unit portfolio when the basis for geographical cross-subsidisation falls away with the lapse of the exclusive right area. I find that the Government in the proposition points to many of these problems, but does not provide adequate answers or suggestions on how we can ensure that the standard and equal price of the post will be maintained along with liberalisation and the lapse of the exclusive right. In view of the geographical cross-subsidisation of the letter item, the unit sports system has now made it possible to offer appropriate and high-quality postal services at a reasonable price to all in this long-range and pig-grown country, even wherever no other distributor would ever be interested in competing on the basis of purely commercial principles. We also ask questions about how the unit portfolio can be maintained when the basis for cross-subsidisation is no longer present. When the profits from the population and industrialised areas are reduced, the possibilities of maintaining the country-wide unit-portfolio also disappear, unless it is to be financed by the tax code. The working party is concerned that the Post may also, in a competitive situation, maintain adequate postal services in less profitable areas. An equivalent and good postal service throughout the country must continue to be the target. The Labour Party wants a policy that ensures good and fair postal services on equal terms for all parts of the country. In the proposal submitted, it is probably the farmers in the districts who become the big losers. The Labour Party therefore opposes the EU’s progress and pace plan towards a fully competitive Norwegian postal market. At the same time, we would point out that the problems of geographical unit portfolios have to be solved when deregulation comes, so that they do not go beyond those who live and feed, in the districts. This is an incredibly important matter for the districts, both for people and for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1795	It is always fun to listen to the Workers' Party when we discuss the old monopolies in Norway. It is soon the only party that will still fight for the old monopolies. Had it been up to them, we had only had the NRK to look at, and we had had the old Telework and everything. The representative from the Workers' Party now said it was the districts that wanted to lose. So did we from the Center Party here. But what has happened in the districts? We used to have mail services at the post office two to three hours a day. Today you get them at the local store, and it has a long opening time. The offer today is quite different from what it was before. I could have said a lot about this. Among other things, the post office today has NOK 1 billion in profit. They've got capital and forces to change and make it better for the districts. I would like to ask the representative of the Labour Party: is there one good reason why the Labour Party will at any time retain the old monopolies, whether it is the Telecom, or it is the Road Administration, the Railway, the NSB, or what? What is the reason why old monopolies must be held?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1806	I record that we disagree, and that was no big surprise. What the representative of the Progress Party, Nistad, says is that we are in favour of those monopolies, is not entirely correct. The working party has always sat in the driver’s seat in the case of conversion processes. I would also like to refer to what the Post has done over time, but it has also become some of the same in the cargo. It is clear that with regard to the conversion in the post office, it is going very well now. However, what the Labour Party does not understand is that one cannot wait for the situation and in this context follow the EU's timetable. This means that before doing so in the other countries, the Government will sit in the driver’s seat, together with the Progress Party, and implement this postal market plan from 1 January 2007. That is why we disagree in the process. We have also always wanted to comply with EU requirements, and we will continue to do so, but we believe that we should not do so in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1815	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1818	With effect from 1 January 2007, it shall become the exclusive right of the Post. That's what this is all about. Although many interesting questions arise in the cold water of the principle, they will certainly find clarification in the investigation of the subsequent document, which will put the details into place. The process has been gradual. The rapporteur was also concerned that we had a legislative change in 2003, which established the plan, but which was without a fixed date for the abolition of the exclusive right. We are in a two-and-a-half-year period, with an exclusive jurisdiction linked to 100 countries on certain premises, and as it is now possible to do, we will have one year with an even smaller exclusive jurisdiction before the total liquidation takes place on 1 January 2007. In the various hearings that have gone over time, there has been a much-needed process, to which we are witnessing today. The scepticism has, of course, been expressed among workers’ organisations. They have also expressed this in consultation within the Committee. Most modernisation processes involve conversion, efficiency, rationalisation and change in employment. We're going to listen to the employees, and then we're going to make a decision. In the transport sector, we have made a great many major and successful changes. We have had changes at sea, at land and in the air, both in air traffic and in electronic communications. We would hardly have achieved today's goal if we had given decisive attention to all the concerns that employees have raised. But we'll never stop listening to what's being said. In this case, as is often the case, it is the district policy user interests that are the most pressing concern. It is decided not to alter the universal service requirements in the event of the winding-up of the exclusive right. The geographical unit portfolio shall continue for individual consignments. In the future, it will be possible to secure unprofitable services through tenders, whether they can be financed through government purchases or through funds. As a minority, it may be necessary to limit so-called cream shrinkage. There will certainly be tools to do so, despite the fact that the exclusive right is being abolished today. Careful follow-up of dominant market actors may be necessary. It is a general challenge in Norwegian competition law. It will also be possible to do in retrospect. Maybe online access becomes a theme here, as we've seen elsewhere in the transport sector. It will also be possible to handle it. For everything we know today, it can also bring us into a new structural debate on the Post. All of this enables Stortinget to come back to us in connection with a new odelstingsproposition in the spring of 2006 and later regulations. What is important now is principle and pace. It's being done today. Then you might wonder a little about the minority’s reference to the EU tempo plan. It is clear from EU policies that they do not have anything against a faster pace of change in the countries concerned than would be the minimum EU standards. Thus, the process that is taking place in our country is certainly most welcome in the EU. But we see that the Central Party is leaning to the final deadline for minimum EU standards, which is not unexpected, as the EU perspective is managed in that party. What is perhaps more remarkable is that the Workers' Party is adding to a similar concern, although they have actually previously had government councils who have had a view of the need for conversion in the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1844	Let me repeat what was said earlier by a spokesperson for the Workers' Party: we're not against conversion, that's the way we do it to safeguard the interests of a business like the Post. What makes me a little curious is that right in its cooperation with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party formulates in the proposal to abolish the unitary sport. That's what it says. ‘It should still be easy and easy to send ordinary letters. The majority will claim that the equal price of these shipments is fair and fair.’ That's great. As a background for the whole, the backstop and the evidence itself, the majority point to positive experiences from other countries where the monopoly of the postal market has been abolished. And then it's exciting to hear: from which country is it that you've gained these positive experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1857	The majority have said, as we have now also stressed, that the quality of the postal service to the public should be as good as before. It is also right that we refer to experiences from other countries. It is known that the different countries have come differently in terms of liberalisation, but there are a number of countries, our Nordic neighbouring countries in particular, which are prominent here. The United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany have not yet reached the same level, but they are in full swing. There are many positive experiences with liberalisation here. Although Sweden has had focus in committee work, we sincerely believe that there are many other countries where they have positive experience of liberalisation in the postal market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1869	There are not many other countries we can compare with our geography and our pattern of residence with that of liberalizing mail distribution. I actually don't think the government parties have any such country to refer to that which has done it successfully. My question, on the other hand, is that this will now be implemented two years before the EU should consider doing so. This means that it is not safe to do so in EU countries, but to assess it. It is clear from the case that foreign companies, foreign groups, are wanted to enter the country in order to compete with the Post. Do not the Right and the other government parties see that they are then faced with the situation that Deutsche Post and other large companies with a protected home market are now being invited into Norway to compete with the Post Norway, and that they are getting a competitive situation that is actually completely hopeless, impossible, for the Post Norway? Can it not be seen that the Post is placed in a very difficult situation, precisely by doing so unilaterally in Norway two years before the EU should consider doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1876	Once again, this European Union's timetable is worrying about the opposition, and that we are making changes before we actually have to. We must do our best in our own country. Whether it's in 2007 or 2009, we have to do it in our own country. This possible desire for resiprosity – as it is called so fine with a foreign word – that it should be done simultaneously across borders is de-dramatised by all. The post office wants the situation we're in. It should be essential for the opposition parties and the opposition to focus on. They are “stress ready” to get up – as Odd Børresen says in his humorous report on the radio – before they absolutely have to, and start. We have such a good experience with the transitions that the Post has had sails, that we also find reason to listen to the Post as a company. It would be quite paradoxical that the Post, as a very up-and-coming company today, would wish for this in 2007 if it were to mean putting itself in an impossible situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1885	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The next speaker is Thore A. Nistad, who has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1890	I'm going to be fine with much less than 10 minutes. In recent years, Posten has changed this company from a management company or a monopoly company to a top modern and competitive communications and logistics group – from 27 000 annual works in 2000 to 21 000 at the beginning of 2005, or 13 000 employees/9 500 annual works reduced since 1996. The proposal for decisions that the Progress Party is promoting today, together with the Christian People's Party and the Right, is the proposal for full liberalisation of the Norwegian postal market from 1 January 2007. As previous speakers have said, it is earlier than the EU's timetable, but in line with the pace of liberalisation that we now see in important countries such as the Netherlands, England and Germany. Sweden and Finland have already liberalised. In the post is already 80 pst. of the activities exposed to competition. The issue of liberalisation is therefore only about the remaining exclusive right of approx. 20 pst. the activity of the Post must be open to competition. The post has said they're ready, the government has said it's ready, and the Progress Party is as always clear about removing monopolies. Today it is only the Workers' Party that lives in the past, in the time of the monopolies. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposal we have in the vote that we want to transfer ownership to Posten Norway to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so that there will be consistency between Posten Norway and the other companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1903	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1906	In this case, the Government proposes to terminate Post Norway’s exclusive right to provide postal services. The principle decision The Stortinget will today understand becomes historic, because the Posten's exclusive right has been a supporter of the national infrastructure. The fact that we have had a well-developed postal network throughout the country, with mail delivered at the same price, has made it possible to have a residence and business throughout the country. The fact that there has been one distributor with exclusive rights for the whole country has made it possible. The surplus from those parts of the country with a good income base has contributed to the financing of distribution in pig-grown areas. Thanks to the Posten each has an island and each a small mountain built in Norway a well-functioning postal service with almost the same quality and price as in populous areas of the country. It is this very well-functioning organisation of the postal distribution that the bulk of the population threatens with its proposal. When the exclusive right is abolished, the possibility of fragmentation arises and the unit portfolio is put under pressure. That is why the SV opposes the proposal. We believe that the best guarantor to ensure good postal services throughout the country in the future at equal price will be that we have a strong postal organisation in Norway with exclusive rights to individual shipments. So what are the consequences? The Government does not respond in this proposition to how full liberalisation of the postal distribution is to be carried out, but nevertheless asks the majority to adopt the principle decision. Then the government will afterwards determine whether and how this is going to be done. There is a procedure that we recognize from previous cases, including: the case concerning the outsourcing of the railway undertaking’s activities. Uncertainty is evident from the answers to the questions asked. It's e.g. no decision as to what should be included in the unit portfolio in the future. The government cannot answer to the cost of maintaining the unit portfolio in the future. On the other hand, it is clear that in the first instance, the unit portfolio will only apply to the Item Norge AS and not to the competitors. It appears that the Post Norway will be required to offer its own distribution network to other operators and that the Post Norway will lose its right to issue and use stamps. This is the historical suspense of — privatisation of the stamps. The majority of the Committee refers to positive experiences from other countries that have abolished the monopoly on the postal market. Which countries are there in Europe, with the same geography and patterns of residence as Norway, which have done this successfully? Is it Sweden, which has opened up full competition for postal services in 1994? According to the Swedish Post and Telecom Board, price differences have increased in Sweden than in Norway, price developments for customers by letter mail have mainly been the same as in Norway, and the Swedish Post Office’s economy is much worse than in Norway. Then I ask, what is the gain? In the case of hearing replies, there is just concern about increasing price differences and the impact on districts of responses from just scattered communities, for example. the Nordic counties and the municipalities of the Mountain Region cooperation in the East. They highlight precisely these concerns. The PostCom organisation also warns against developments in central and population-based areas in Europe, that it is not feasible in Norway with our geography and scattered settlements. PostCom also fears the impact on business and housing in District Norway. The Government proposes to wind up the exclusive right two years before the EU considers doing the same. This means that Deutsche Post and other foreign actors can establish themselves freely in Norway and compete with the Post while having a protected domestic market in their own country. I would also refer to the OECD report ‘Promotion Competition in Postal Service’, which characterises the delivery of mail to small and medium-sized end-users as a natural monopoly. The most likely consequence of this Decision is that maintaining the single portfolio will be significantly more expensive for the country, because new players will only enter the profitable markets, i.e. operate cream crumbs in the most profitable parts of the country. It will once again weaken the economy of the Post Norway. The alternative is to abolish the exclusive right, as the Post Norway asks, in order to be able to compete on equal terms. Then we'll get price differences in the country. So it's going to be wrong anyway, and it'll weaken a functioning system. Privatisation and deregulation of infrastructure have been the priority policies of this government. It's most ideologically motivated. We see the pattern repeating, the consequences are not investigated in advance; it has to be done in retrospect. We are not surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party are doing this, but the Christian People's Party's voters have to ask themselves which party they are members of, which to those degrees is in favour of the liberalisation of an infrastructure that is so important to District Norway. This has nothing to do with modernisation. Norway should be the country in Europe that had the strongest reason to hold back, precisely because of our housing pattern, with widespread settlement, and precisely because the post-organisation we've had in this country, developed over 360 years, has been so successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1938	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1941	I thought it was a bit exciting to get to right SV now to praise the development we have had in the Post Office. I also thought I recognized some of the fears from previous debates in this house from before the representative Hansen and I came here, i.e. the fear that development and conversion would go beyond the districts. Is the representative Hansen aware of the amazing positive developments in the Post that have given Utkant-Noreg a better offer than we have ever had, and where, instead of having a spending lock now, we have a postal service that goes in balance and so on? I also want to ask the representative Hansen: if this is so bad for the Post, why would the Post itself, the representative, believe, have this change? The fundamental differences are threatened by competition or non-competition – competition is something that the majority and the Post wants because it drives the Post forward, while the representative Hansen sees this as a danger that we must avoid as far as possible. I'd like a little comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1950	Firstly, as regards the development and reorganization that has been in the Post, SV has not been against it. We have been one of the parties that has been advocating, among other things. for the creation of a local service office, which we see the post office could have been part of. So we haven't been against that development, on the contrary, but this has been a development as a result of technological development. What we're talking about now is breaking up an organization that has been the foundation for having equal offers across the country, and for having equal prices. When the Post has asked for this, they have said at the same time that they do not want the unit portfolio, so it is at the premise that the Post Norway has agreed to this. The fact that we're going to maintain the unit portfolio is an important motive for going against breaking up a well-functioning organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1956	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1959	It is interesting to hear that SV is positive to the development that has taken place in the Post Office, but it is in quite a contrast to the post that was just held by the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen. It's going well for the Post Norway by day. The company can show good results. Progress explains the Post itself with increased profitability by improving efficiency and bridging with service and quality improvements. We at least record that customers are increasingly satisfied with the service provided by the Posten. 99.6 pst. of all households in Norway, the mail is delivered six days a week. The Government proposes to terminate the last remaining exclusive right of Posten Norge AS from 1 January 2007. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal. First of all, we do that because the Post itself wants it, and because the Storting is going to ensure a good postal service across the country, regardless of whether someone has exclusive or not. Large parts of the postal market are already liberalised. When the Committee visited the Post a few weeks ago, we were informed that the share of the Post Office's income coming from the exclusive jurisdiction in 2001 was 33 pst, while in 2005 it was only 14 pst. We do not believe that the liquidation of the Post Office's remaining exclusive rights creates major difficulties for Posten Norway. A major challenge for the Post is the development that we are in, with decreasing volume: increasingly, we use electronic mail solutions to replace traditional mail. The time for love letters is over – now it is e-mail and SMS that apply. With effect from 1 July 2003, the Post Norway AS includes its exclusive right only closed addressed letter with a weight of 100 grams. From 1 January 2006, the exclusive rights area is further reduced to consignments weighing up to 50 grams. These legislative changes were necessary as a result of EU directives. The EU has announced further liberalisation of the postal market from 2009. However, the entry Norge AS itself wants the entire Norwegian postal market to be opened up to competition before it. It is a clear and unambiguous intention on the part of the Christian People's Party to maintain today's high level of service provision in the districts. Through the use of instruments such as unit portfolios on individual consignments, state purchases of unprofitable services and a new regulatory framework adapted to the peculiar circumstances, such as. the scattered pattern of residence, we will have a good postal service throughout the country even after the winding-up of the exclusive right is in place. As I said, most things are going very well for the Post Norway AS at the moment. But I would point out that the lead time to the three northernmost states, and especially to Finnmark states, both inside and for mail coming from the south, is too long. The Christian People's Party will take this opportunity to challenge the Post on this. The Finnmark population is also entitled to almost as good services as in the rest of the country, especially for this internal mail in the county. It is not acceptable for internal mail to be on a round trip for several days in the county before it reaches the consignee. An overall committee wishes to continue post-transmission six days a week and unit portfolio on individual consignments. The unit porto will mainly refer to letters that are currently placed in yellow and red collection mailboxes. In addition, arrangements with a maximum price for some services are considered. Such schemes could help to prevent unfair prices from being charged to consumers, for example. in District Norway. The volume of government purchases of universal services imposed on society that are not economically profitable shall not be changed. Experts discuss whether further liberalisation will increase the purchase of the State. The main point for us in the Christian People's Party is in any case that we should continue to purchase state-owned unprofitable services, because we are committed to ensuring the whole country a good and equivalent postal service.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1982	The President would point out that it is not apparent from the statement that the time of the letters of love is over. It's just love letters with exclusive rights. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1987	Why does the Christian People's Party not want to follow the EU's timetable with an evaluation before the last exclusive rights are removed? The Christian People's Party wants to be a district friendly party. Does not the Christian People's Party believe that there could have been a point that an evaluation of the liberalisation carried out could provide useful answers to what has happened and whether the offer is as it should be? Will not the Christian People's Party have a solution to the district challenges before the liquidation of the exclusive right is implemented? Isn't the Christian People's Party running a little too fast now to implement the policies of the Right Party and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e1994	The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed on the liberalisation of the Post which has taken place until today. What we see from the results that have been achieved is a success story for the Post Norway AS, not only for the Post as a company, but also for the customers, who now have access to mail and an opening time that is far better than before. The post has achieved the forwarding target set by the Stortinget. The Christian People's Party sees no reason why we should not continue with the good development that we are now in, so that the Post can prepare for the great transformation that comes in the EU, probably in 2009. As for the performance in the outermost regions, I touched it in my post and challenged the Post on that particular issue. The post has also made known to us in response to questions that they are working on that particular issue in order to improve the transmission especially to the three northernmost states.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e2001	The representative Jan Sahl stressed that the Post Norway AS is doing so very well now, and that it would almost be thought that it was because the Post had asked for it, that the Christian People's Party was in favour of it. There's a couple of things here that seem to be a fact. The reorganization that has been in the Post has been initiated by the technological developments that have taken place in this area, while the proposal that comes on the table here is ideologically motivated. The time of the monopolies is over. We're going to have full competition. Liberalisation is an ideologically motivated reform. That's what you can challenge the Christian People's Party. Why do we resort to such a policy? In fact, district governments and district municipalities are so strongly warning against it, as it may weaken the supply of districts, not least in terms of price differences. My question is as far as I asked the representative Hoddevik. Can Jan Sahl tell us in which countries in the world have you seen this done successfully? Where has the liberalisation proposed here been successfully achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e2010	First to ideology: there's no more ideology in this than it's in what we've been into in the past development of the Post. It has been a gradually clear direction towards full liberalisation. We have all been aware that the European Union is doing this. We know that it will probably come in 2009. There's not much more ideology in this than it is in the evolution we've had all along. That's the one. The second is that I thought it had gone up for SV that technological development has not stopped today. Technological developments continue. In terms of what is put in the mailboxes, it falls in this way for the post office. Then there's a question of whether they're going to have an opportunity to compete in more and more areas, so that they can raise a capital so that we can just get the Post out to the extremes of the country. So it was about examples from the outside. The best example is what we have in ourselves, where we now have an ascending Item Norge AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e2019	During the previous growing-up period, the Center Party cooperated closely with the Christian People's Party in social affairs. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party were united to fight for us to have postal services that would be equivalent in quality and price throughout the country. In my view, the Christian People's Party has made a rather powerful turn in its attitude when it comes to postal services. There is now talk of good services at competitive prices, and measures to prevent these inequalities that may arise should first be introduced when price differences become unparalleled. I'd like the representative Sahl to define what are unreasonable price differences. Does the representative of Sahl not see that what he stands for now is quite different from what he and his party stood for in the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e2026	It's a lot that's not unfamiliar with conversions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e2029	We are happy in both love letters and conversions, so in that way the President got along fairly well with it. I would say to the representative Jorunn Ringstad of the Central Party that the Christian People's Party has not deviated from any line. We have been involved in the liberalisation process that has gradually taken place in the Post from the time of the central government to today. But the centre party has fought all the way and in the time of the central government was reluctant to accept what happened in that period. We're still going to have equal prices and equal quality across the country. We're going to have a one-porto that's still going to apply to what's going to be put in the mailboxes and delivered across the country. It is not unknown to the representative Jorunn Ringstad that we still have different prices for everything outside the unit area, and where the Post is already out and competing on the market today. So this terror propaganda that there's going to be huge, big differences with this and a whole new world for the Post, doesn't have any faith in the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15.ana.ud469e2036	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. We interrupt the negotiations and a new meeting will be held at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
