ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e47	Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the maternity leave of the representative Sylvia Brustad from 18 March onwards and from the Spring session of the representative Martin Engeset on leave from 29 March until 9 April following an invitation to visit the University of North Dakota and Minneapolis On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hedmark County: Grethe G. Fossum For Eastfold County: Carsten Dybevig
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e71	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e74	On behalf of the representatives of Rune Skjälaaen, Eli Sollied Överaas and myself, I would like to make proposals for the strengthening of the funding of advanced schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e79	The representative of Mr Øystein Djupedal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e82	On behalf of the representatives of Bjørn Jacobsen, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose that international taxes be assessed as alternative and supplementary sources of income for the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e87	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e92	On behalf of Per Sandberg's representative and myself, I regret having to submit proposals on the final implementation of UDI's expulsion decision by Faraj Ahmad Najumuddin, aka Mulla Krekar.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e97	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e101	On behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Thore A. Nistad, Per Roar Bredvold, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Waksdal and myself, I propose that permission for the use of snowmobiles in special loops be made general, and that the authority granted by law be transferred from the county to the individual municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e106	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose that the Stortinget deal with the supplementary agenda on the ordinary agenda. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. 59.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e130	The economic development in China has been enormous. The Chinese market has opened up to the outside world. This violent economic growth has led to increased political power and influence for China, not least in Asia. Until a few years ago, China was in opposition to the international system. Today, the country operates largely within the international regulatory framework, most recently as a new member of the WTO. China is conscious of its major role, which is about to turn the country into a central global actor. The Chinese government has done a lot to reform trade and business in line with WTO rules. Now the government should have equal ambitions to meet international human rights standards. There's still a lot left. Many countries are very quiet and cautious in their criticism of the human rights situation in China. Economic conditions may seem to play such an important role that human rights violations are not mentioned or pointed out. Everyone wants to take part in China's huge economic development, become a trading partner, invest and enter the Chinese market. Then they dare not flushing such a chance by also claiming civil and political rights at the same time. It is not that economic progress automatically leads to democracy and respect for human rights. Economic growth has caused a dramatic decline in the number of people living in absolute poverty. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao has promised that support for rural areas will be greatly increased, and that the taxation of the poorest areas in the country will be cut off altogether. That's good! But while the Chinese government is provoking closer to the people, the party leader intervenes against academics and journalists who express themselves critically. What does it help with market economy, if they don't have democracy? Is it so that the world tacitly accepts violations of human rights, because market thinking has become too dominant? Many may have thought that globalisation itself would lead to new openness, with greater respect for human rights. That's not the case. China is welcomed, even as a dictatorship, to participate in globalisation. Even when the Chinese coastguard shot and killed nine Vietnamese fishermen on the night of January 9th, we heard a little. Shouldn't China be investigating this and punishing the killers? Or do their own human rights rules apply to China? Information on human rights violations in China is limited. Those who break silence are at risk of arbitrary arrests, torture and other human rights violations. We expected reforms with the new regime in 2002, but their overall aim is to keep China stable and united. Last year, China received around USD 57 billion in foreign investment. Therefore, the authorities are primarily concerned with ensuring harmony and stability. They're going to desert opposition. That's what one saw, among other things. on how they tackled the situation when the former leader of the Communist Party, Ziyang, died. He ventured in 1989 to support the students and their demands for increased democracy. There have been major disturbances in Sichuan, where perhaps 100,000–200,000 people have demonstrated. More people are believed to have been killed. We haven't heard of this. It shows how the authorities are able to cover such episodes. What happened in the Tiananmen Square in 1989 was due to the fear of the people's demands for democracy. Several human rights organisations have also criticised China for using the fight against terrorism as a pretext for breaking human rights. Political reforms are not on the agenda. It's just about cosmetic reforms. China, for example, has not opened to a multi-party system. The Christian People's Party will not agree that economic or security policy conditions will play such a major role that human rights are broken. The infringements must not be kept silent. It's not just an internal matter, and we can't just think about economic gain for ourselves. The abuses that are taking place in China also concern us. Human rights organisations report on arbitrary arrests, persecution, torture and execution of Chinese people who require civil and political rights. The media is being controlled. The Internet could have led to greater transparency and respect for freedom of belief and expression, but the use of the Internet is strongly controlled. Instead China is now sharpening censorship on the Internet, and more and more so-called inspectors are going to patrol websites around the clock. The court and the legal system are politicized. There is also a problem in China with so-called confessions that have arisen during the use of torture, the defendants have limited access to legal aid, and a view of political interference in the trial. According to Amnesty, there is an increase in human rights activists in the country, but they run a serious risk. They fight in a very hostile climate and against a repressive system. Several have been arrested on very vague grounds of appeal. Every year thousands of Chinese are executed and tortured. The deaths are kept hidden by the authorities. Secretary-General Petter Eide of Amnesty International Norway says that the number of executions in China is so high and legal certainty so weak that it makes sense to refer to it as a massacre. The number of executions is increasing in connection with festivals and public holidays. Amnesty has registered significantly more executions in China against the celebration of the Chinese New Year on 9 February. Incomplete statistics show that 200 people were executed only during the two weeks before the New Year in February. Out of these 200, many were convicted of nonviolent crimes, such as financial crime or atrocities against public buildings. The Chinese authorities claim, on their part, that the death penalty is applied with caution. Many of those sentenced to death may also be innocent. Such a judicial system in China works, there is no guarantee that the sentenced persons have been given a fair trial. We also know that cultural and religious freedom is in jeopardy. Throughout China, more people are being persecuted for their faith. Tibetan Buddhists are discriminated against and oppressed. Their religion and culture are threatened. The UN Special Rapporteur to the Human Rights Commission reported to the UN General Assembly in September 2004 on the situation of practitioners of Falun Gong in China. Here it is stated that since July 20, 1999, when the authorities banned Falun Gong, more than 1,600 practitioners of Falun Gong have been tortured or beaten, several hundred have been sentenced to prison sentences of more than 20 years, others have been interned in mental institutions, and a large number have been sent to labour camps without trial. At least 907 practitioners are reported to have died in captivity. The report indicates that the campaign against Falun Gong continues throughout China. The system of labour camp, called ‘Reeducation through Labour’, is particularly forced on practitioners of Falun Gong. Uigur Muslims count 8 million people and make up half of the population in the Xinjiang region. There are serious violations of human rights in Xinjiang. In 2004, the Rafto Foundation awarded its prize to Rebiya Kadeer for her fight for Uighure rights in the field of social and economic marginalisation. It is very gratifying that China yesterday set free cadets, which have been imprisoned for six years. An important person is released, but still thousands of uighurs are in prison. Since 11 September 2001, as many as 3 000–4 000 uighurs have been imprisoned. According to the Rafto Foundation, several of these are political prisoners. Last year, over 50 Uighurs were sentenced to death. Christians too are persecuted and harassed. Churches will be destroyed. The Open Doors organization tells us that the authorities have strict control of Christians. Unregistered Christian activities are being controlled, and several mass arrests have been carried out in the last year. Many community leaders have been arrested and interrogated. There are some positive actions taking place on this front. A new law dealing with freedom of religion in China came into force on March 1. The News Agency The New China News Agency has characterised the law as a significant advance in the protection of Chinese religious freedom. According to the news agency, the new rules will make it easier for Christian groups to obtain public approval and, in addition, can guarantee religious property rights. One of the paragraphs of the law allows Christian congregations to start community-based projects such as kindergartens, orphanages and clinics. This seems to be an improvement and a progress for religious freedom. However, there may be a serious setback for unregistered congregations. Many unregistered Christian fears that the new law will help to increase tension and exacerbate the situation between the authorities and the unregistered Christians in China. We should remember that developments in China vary greatly from place to place. There is a lot of positive happening, and the country has a diversity. Nevertheless, we must dry up the challenge of China. We cannot compromise human rights, and China must tolerate criticism when human rights are violated in the most serious way. Norway is a small country, but we can make others listen. The Christian People's Party welcomes all Norwegian measures that can be taken to prevent human rights violations in China and to ensure that human rights can form an important and growing part of the relationship between China and Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that in this human rights dialogue between Norway and China we must address violations of human rights with greater weight and breadth. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore as follows: What will the Council of State do to increase pressure on China to ensure freedom of organisation, belief and expression?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e172	The government is concerned about and concerned about freedom of organisation, belief and expression in China. We work in different ways to strengthen human rights in these areas. Firstly, human rights issues are raised directly with Chinese authorities and multilateral bodies. Secondly, we address individual cases where people are imprisoned on an improper basis. But criticism is not enough. Third, Norway is therefore cooperating with the Chinese authorities and organisations in order to achieve concrete improvements. This work has been significantly strengthened in recent years. Fourth, we are actively working internationally to best coordinate efforts with other countries that are committed to strengthening human rights in China. There are many different actors working to strengthen human rights in China. It is therefore not possible to measure the impact of Norwegian work alone on strengthening human rights. However, I believe that the form we have chosen from the Norwegian side, with the combination of different instruments, is an appropriate and effective way to strengthen human rights in China. This work is highly prioritised from the Norwegian side. It is important to be clear that within the Chinese system there are legal limitations on the freedom of organisation, belief and expression that we do not have in Norway. China also has major legal challenges in relation to arbitrary arrests and torture, which they also admit. From the Norwegian side, it will be important to contribute to strengthening the trends towards a more pluralist society based on the rule of law. A policy of isolating China will help to strengthen the forces that go in the opposite direction to what we want. Since 1997, Norway has had a human rights dialogue with China with annual round tables. The round tables are run at political level, and freedom of religion, belief and expression is always central. A number of other countries have dialogue on human rights with China, including China. The United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, Australia and Switzerland as well as the EU. Norway and Australia are the only countries with their political dialogue. In order to maximise the impact of the work, Norway cooperates with other dialogue countries in the so-called Bern process. Norway charges Chinese human rights violations in multilateral forums, such as the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva. During the last year’s session, we expressed concerns on the human rights situation in China about the imprisonment of people who have published articles on the Internet, the lack of religious freedom and the widespread use of the death penalty. At the same time, we called on China to abolish the system of detention camps, known as ‘Reeducation through Labour Camps’, where, among other things, many practitioners of Falun Gong are kept. Norwegians also stressed the importance of maintaining the culture and religious identity of Tibetans. Norway also addresses individual cases where we believe that a person has been imprisoned on an improper basis or where there is a risk that the person will not be treated under international human rights. Several prisoners associated with the underground churches have been addressed in this way. The situation of the underground churches and reports on the harassment of clerics associated with them have also been addressed at political level with China. The new legal provisions on religious associations are a codification of current practice and thus do not improve the situation. One thing that has been up in Great Britain's Question Time is the death sentence against the Tibetan monk Tenzin Delek Rinpoche. From the Norwegian side, on a number of occasions, we have raised this matter with the Chinese authorities, including at political level. The death sentence was converted by the Sichuan Province Court on 26 January of this year to life imprisonment. International engagement is important in such matters, and several of the prison cases we have raised from the Norwegian side have ended in release. The situation of the Uighurs in the Xinjiang province is central to the discussions on human rights with Chinese authorities. From the Norwegian side, we have expressed concern that the fight against terrorism can also lead to a strong government downpour of peaceful political activity. Norwegian criticism of human rights violations directly vis-à-vis Chinese authorities or multilateral bodies is not enough. We also need to do something concrete to improve the situation. In the context of the human rights dialogue with China in Norway, a number of actions have therefore been undertaken. In the context of the annual human rights round table, three working groups dealing with the rights of prisoners, arrests and workers are set up. The working groups, with the participation of authorities and organisations in both countries, have cooperation projects aimed at strengthening the rights of prisoners, prisoners and workers. Norway and China work together to organise conferences, exchange delegations and make representations in legislative processes. The requirements for fair trial and the prohibition of abuse and torture are central. The focus is on participation from organisation life, and during the 8th round table in Beijing in June 2004, the LO, NHO, Amnesty International, the Helsinki Committee and the Human Rights Committees of the Medical Association and the Law Association were represented. The Round Table thus becomes an arena where these organisations can come across criticism of Chinese practices in relation to human rights directly to Chinese authorities. The working groups on the rights of prisoners and prisoners were visiting a prison and an detention camp in China in the spring of 2004. A number of issues concerning the illegal arrest and treatment of different groups, including Falun Gong, were then raised directly with the responsible Chinese authorities. A number of departments, the Supreme Court, the National Advocate, the Civil Ombudsman, academic institutions and non-governmental organisations are active in the Norwegian-Chinese human rights dialogue. Activities are largely financed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of the concrete measures that can be mentioned, the Civil Ombudsman’s cooperation with Chinese institutions is to strengthen the rights of prisoners and the cooperation of the Medical Association with the Chinese Psychiatric Association on Human Rights and Psychiatry in China. The Oslokolation for freedom of belief and freedom of life has been working with freedom of religion in China for several years and has, in recent years, given particular attention to the right to free religious practice in Tibet. LO and NHO are working on questions of democratisation of labour in China, and have, among other things, prepare books on trade union work and freedom of organisation translated into Chinese. The trade union movement’s research centre, Fafo, is now carrying out a major living conditions study in western China to be used to combat poverty in those provinces where the main focus of minorities is located. Academic cooperation on human rights is also very well developed. The work of the China Programme at the Centre for Human Rights has been funded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has since its launch in 1997 among others. powered student exchange and human rights education. The Centre's work is internationally recognised. In 2003, the China programme launched the first comprehensive production of international human rights in Chinese, together with a teaching manual. This is now in use at 27 universities in China. Human rights centres also have their own programme of minority rights and province autonomy in China. Another measure to strengthen minority rights is the Network for University Cooperation Tibet – Norway. The network is unique in its kind, where four universities in Norway cooperate with universities in Tibet in different disciplines. In our work on human rights in China, we use a wide range of instruments. We're going to give this work a high priority, even in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e214	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. The dialogue between the Norwegian and Chinese authorities and the participation of non-governmental organisations is well known. I believe it is very important that Norway continues this work and criticises the violations of international human rights standards through this dialogue. And we should put pressure on China through the UN Commission on Human Rights. This is also very important, in my view. Dialogue with China plays a very important role, and the measures are, as we heard, both many and good. We have to keep doing that, but we have to ensure the results of the work. When we know that the abuses continue on a large scale, we cannot settle down on the measures we have today. Somehow, a performance chart should be drawn up in order to measure whether there is an improvement in the human rights situation. The individual Chinese must have their religious, political and civil rights respected. We need to support those in China who are working for increased democracy and for human rights, and we should put further pressure on China in relation to what we are doing today. So I want to throw out a challenge. It is very difficult to be consistent in foreign policy. If we take as an example a country that is closer, Belarus, we see that there is a rather tough line, not just from Norway, but from most European countries. Belarus is a small country with about 1 pst. of Europe’s population, with little economic significance for Norway – and little importance for the EU, for that matter. China has 20 pst. of the world's population, a strong growing economy and important economic cooperation and trade with Norway. It looks like you're running a slightly softer line to China. They are important to take top management in the country, and it is important to have active cooperation in very many areas, both economically and culturally, while it is easy to run a tough line in relation to Belarus, where there is no political contact and no organisation of any kind of economic or cultural cooperation. I would like to have a little reflection on the problems of being consistent in foreign policy, for example. Similarly, a human rights dialogue could also be attempted with Belarus. I think it would be positive if we could establish more of these dialogues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e225	This suddenly became a debate on Belarus. I realized that the question was whether we should also have a dialogue with Belarus. Of course, that might be an idea, but if I'm going to answer questions about Belarus, I think we're going to go into it a little bit more prepared than it gives a three-minute post to do. As for the consequences, I'm not quite sure if I'm fully following Rise. I think it is very important to treat countries on the basis of the assumptions that exist, and not least on the basis of an assessment of the causation chain, which means to a specific country that is the fastest leading to the outcome, and more consistently to the outcome. This means that we have to be pragmatic in the sense that some instruments can be more suitable in some countries than in others. One doesn't exclude the other. As I suggest in my article, it is such that having extensive contacts with China in a number of areas, including the economic ones, gives us access and credibility to the dialogues that we have. Therefore, there is no contradiction between having a financial commitment and simultaneously raising human rights issues. On the contrary, it may well be more effective precisely by having extensive contacts with a country, and so I also read Rise's questions about Belarus in many ways, namely whether it would not be wise to have more contacts than those we have. It may be, but I have to get back to that question with my own assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e232	I think it is very commendable that the representative Lars Rise addresses this issue for debate here today. This year it has been 16 years since the massacre in the place of Heavenly peace in Beijing. The massacre led them to a democratic spring solution we could then see, was stopped with weapons in hand. In the years that have passed, we have been able to observe a two-sided development in China. On the one hand: strong economic liberalisation, including Chinese membership of the WTO and very large economic growth. In fact, this growth has only benefited parts of the country. In other words, growth is very unevenly distributed. And on the other hand, we've seen a Communist Party that doesn't have any means to maintain its monopoly of power. China is therefore a country capable of combining a market economy with a communist dictatorship, and therefore China has also been called a market Stalinist system. The widespread use of the death penalty in China is particularly worrying. In this context, Amnesty has recorded significantly more executions in China before the celebration of the new Chinese lunar year of 9 February, and to which the representative Rise also referred, incomplete statistics show that 200 people were executed in the two weeks before the Chinese New Year, in February. According to Amnesty, local media have also reported at least 650 executions in December and January alone, and both of these months are common months, without special highlights such as in connection with festivals. The real number of executions is likely to be significantly higher, since China refuses to publish all details surrounding the executions. Amnesty also stresses that as China's legal system operates today, there is no guarantee that the death sentences have been given a fair trial. It is also underlined that mass executions in the last few months are justified by the desire to ensure social stability, so that people can carry out a safe and good New Year celebration in February. In 2008, the Summer Olympics will be held in Beijing, the capital of China. This is going to be a big event, and all the world's eyes will be on China in this period. The Chinese authorities will take the opportunity to market themselves and show the world the advanced country has gone through since it started its economic reforms more than 20 years ago. In line with Amnesty himself, I think it is of great importance to stress that when the world meets in Beijing in 2008 to hail humanity under the Olympic flag, the executions must have stopped and the death penalty abolished in law and practice. Norway, together with other neighbouring countries, should therefore intensify efforts to put pressure on the authorities in China to stop the use of the death penalty. I think we should support the forces in the country that are just trying to limit the use of this kind of punishment, and these forces are not without political influence. In the internal Chinese debate, this includes, inter alia: proposed a reform requiring the Supreme Court to review all death sentences. Such a system is now, death sentences are decided by various courts, which practice different standards. The abolition of the death penalty in the country is a minimum of what we must expect from the 'rich of the Middle'.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e243	This is a very important interpellation and a theme that should worry, because the situation is not merry in China. It is regrettable that while China has made great progress in many areas, the human rights situation remains very worrying. Religious minorities, ethnic minorities, political oppositionals, all have a difficult, not to say a dangerous, existence in China. The representative Rise described in an excellent way many of the challenges and issues that exist in China. Despite showing some positive results, many who work with human rights in China report that there is no general improvement. We should measure whether progress is in a positive direction, and there is little to suggest, unfortunately. Around the world now, especially perhaps in the last winter, there are many states that have taken small or large steps in a democratic direction. This has been a very exciting development in recent months. In China we see no sign of any similar development. The main problem with China, as I see it, is the absence of democracy, or at all, the absence of attempts at democracy. The role of the United States is important, also in relation to China. Yesterday, I think, it came out that the United States might refrain from coming up with sharp criticism of the human rights situation in China now, and that is also worrying. International, broad support is needed for these issues. As for the dialogue we have with China, the challenge of using it to hide some of the problems is to hide some of the criticism. According to an evaluation prepared by the U.D. itself, it is said that China has succeeded with one of its objectives: the criticism in international forums against China has waned. Then we should ask ourselves whether this dialogue really works for the better, or whether it does get the criticism into closed rooms, and that should be worrying. For example, to be called the Chinese ambassador in Oslo when we get reports of gross outrage? Should we do it more? Should we be on guard all the time? Or should the criticism be isolated to certain designated arenas? More transparency should be an objective, including for criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e252	Both the inter-pellant and the Foreign Minister have demonstrated that this is a major infringement. The same was done in a seminar organised last year by the Christian People's Party and SV in Stortinget. But we should also be aware that even the last political analysis of the Norwegian economy has China as a central element, because we sell expensively, but we buy cheaply. We buy cheap Chinese imported goods, precisely because labour standards in China don't keep goals and they can therefore produce so cheaply. So in a way, we're going to benefit from the fact that the workforce is not being followed, and that human rights are not being followed well enough in China. That's why it's really important that this be taken up, and I think this is part of the newer economic policy – liberalisation, free trade, which China as a communist state follows up to the point and the point, as if it were the most capitalist country. We're enjoying it, but we should nevertheless consider all possible forums that these standards have to be set. Then there is no doubt that this also has political consequences in the form that it has something to do with the so-called war on terror. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees made it clear that China was not allowed to engage in assault in Xinjiang and justified it under the umbrella of the so-called war on terror. There was a very clear signal that one kind of apologizes for that. We see that it happens in Chechnya, we see that it happens in Colombia, we see that it happens in many countries that they apologize that this is war on international terrorism. I thought that the Foreign Minister said it very well that a search must be made for the groups working with peaceful political instruments, because an opposition – no matter what country you are in – must always be cultivated. If you get an opposition on the list of terrors, or if you get an opposition that's being squandered, you don't get a democratic development no matter what kind of regime it might be. So I'm glad the Foreign Minister has that grip on that problem. To name a few words about Falun Gong, one might wonder how wrong the measures that are being implemented can be. It's e.g. There is a great reason to believe that Chinese regimes have transformed Falun Gong from being a peaceful Chinese meditation movement to actually becoming a powerful international movement supported by the human rights community and political activists around the world. One achieved the opposite of what one really had in mind. This should also include Norway in all the bilateral talks we have with the Chinese.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e265	I have a great deal of understanding that we should not start a debate on Belarus here, and that was not my opinion either. It was more meant as an example that it might be easier to act with rigour and firmness towards a smaller nation, which is less important economically. But I am fully aware that it is important in all policies to assess the impact of our actions and what we can achieve. If it is that the Foreign Minister really believes that we are achieving something in this dialogue, it is very important to continue. We must use every opportunity, both in terms of economic and cultural cooperation, to promote international standards in the field of human rights. China is a very significant nation. It's also economically important, and we have to deal with it. But in the middle of this, there's a gross violation of human rights. A few weeks ago, the newspaper Magazine printed pictures of tortured Christians. It's totally unsustainable for us to sit and see that it can happen. In parallel with such gross violations of human rights, a dialogue takes place. My point in my previous post was that we might have a form for measuring results. What are the developments in all the different areas described in the International Convention on Human Rights? Could we create a system to measure developments in all these areas, and make sure that it is promoted as a separate point at all meetings, in round table dialogue and in the various meetings associated with the human rights dialogue with China, I think we might achieve more. It would be positive if we could get the Chinese to realize that it's a point to measure results, and the goal, of course, is for development to go in the right direction. It would have been interesting to get the Foreign Minister's view on whether you could try to get a measure of the result of what we're doing. It's positive in most contexts to know what we're achieving. As I said, the measures are good and many, and this work must continue with full strength. But my hope is that we can put a slightly stronger pressure on China than what we are doing today. I think this could happen by asking Norway to measure the results, and then to increase the pressure to improve both freedom of belief, expression and organisation in China.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e278	It's always the way that the starting point for the conversations we have is the situation as it is; whether it's improved or worsened, that's what's the starting point for the conversation. So I'm not sure if the idea is as new as that Rise meant to express. I also think I have to insist that what is happening to any improvement in China is good. I fully agree with Rise that yesterday's resolution is a positive step, but it is difficult to say whether it is due to the Norwegian position or whether it is due to the position of other countries. This is probably due to a combination of these, and it is good that many countries are engaged in this dialogue, that there are many countries that are engaged in achieving results. At the end of the day, the results are crucial, and the instruments must be corrected, so that we can achieve the results we want to achieve as effectively as possible. As regards the overall measurement, international assessments – as other countries do, as independent institutions do, as in Geneva – of how human rights evolve. In many ways, we have quite a lot of factual assessment of the situation, and it will therefore be at the bottom and important when we are dealing with the concrete measures and when we come up with our concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e287	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e301	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e308	The proposers believe that the time is ripe for amending the law and regulation on target public service use. The proposers believe that today's legislation on service objectives for State undertakings and bodies does not respect the expressed language preferences of the inhabitants and in addition leads to unnecessary pressure on financial resources that could be allocated to more important areas under the activities of the State undertaking or body. Proposalers consider it problematic that the language preferences of municipalities are the basis for the choice of target form and not the language preferences of the inhabitants. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party, supports the broad lines of the opinions expressed by the Ministry of Culture and the Church in its letter to the Committee of 8 November 2004. The majority believe that the language preferences of the inhabitants are already a key principle of the target law, including: by replying to letters from private legal entities in the same form as in the enquiry. In addition, the municipalities also have the right to receive a letter in the desired target form. 162 municipalities have today adopted requirements for bookkeeping, 116 have adopted requirements for new Norwegian, while 156 are neutral. The majority support the Ministry's assessment that purely majority considerations among the inhabitants of a region would lead to a minority of the population of the new Norse, almost everywhere, and that it is a correct principle that small and large municipalities count equally in this context. One of the objectives of the target law is to stimulate the use of new Norse and to preserve an inalienable part of our cultural heritage. The majority have noted that in their letter to the Committee, the Ministry writes that the proposers provide more misleading information, including: in the case of Agder diocese and Haukeland University Hospital. The majority, all members of the Committee other than the representatives of the Progress Party, consider that the law is functioning as intended and that the proposal should therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e323	Let me first address the two proposals promoted by the Progress Party in the vote. The background to the proposal is that, in a number of contexts, there are consequences of clear misunderstandings between the municipal policy choices of language form and the language preferences of the inhabitants. I am one of the proponents of the Progress Party who believe that there are consequences that are incomprehensible and unacceptable to most people. There are consequences that show bureaucracy and linguistic fundamentalism at its worst! The consequences require, following the assessment of the Progress Party, adjustment, either by derogation and derogation or, even better, by a legislative and regulatory change that eliminates the possibility of such issues once and for all. As the author of the proposal, I have noticed the letter of response from the Council of Culture and the Council of Churches dated 8 November 2004, a very hot letter, which does not show any understanding of the issues raised, nor any willingness to meet them. It was not quite unexpected, but nevertheless disappointing when one so clearly reveals that divorce is more important than patients. An example used is Bishop Skjevesland of Agder Bispedium, who wishes, but does not receive, a derogation after the Norwegian Language Council in April 2004 pointed out that Agder Bispedium had to follow the target law and use neo-Norwegian as an administrative language. And that's some of what we're talking about here, that you're being forced into an administrative language. So you're not just talking about the fact that you have to correspond to the outside world of wanting to measure from the one who's going to, but you're also talking about being forced on an administrative language that you don't necessarily want to use. In a diocese with barely 7 pst. by the inhabitants of the country have a new Norse as their target form, and there is only 5 pst. uses new Norwegian as its writing language, it seems, in my view, unreasonable that the diocese should write its file in a new Norse language. In linguistic terms, West-Agder is a book target group, while East-Agder and Telemark are linguistically neutral. This means that more than half of the three municipalities concerned are linguistically neutral — if you count county municipalities. Another example applies to regional health enterprises. Here, the Ministry of Culture and the Church has decided that these enterprises are subject to public service target use law. The Progress Party believes that health businesses should concentrate on making people healthy. We think they'll be as fresh if it says Haukeland Hospital on the sign, as if it says Haukeland Sjukehus. The point, however, is that the 25 million. it costs for new signs, sorely needed for the treatment of patients and not for signs! Understandably, this is incomprehensible to most people. Instructions that lead to the cost of new signs on a different scale when the hospitals in Health West are screaming for money for medical treatment, are incomprehensible and, in our view, unacceptable. The Party of Progress will have re-assessed this assessment. The party to the progress will have health enterprises exempted from requirements related to the public service target use law. There would be a clear signal that consideration for patients is more important than consideration for the target form. Alternatively, the Ministry may use the Objectives Act § 8 on State bodies which have the whole country as a service area, where there is a requirement for exchanges in the use of target forms for information, but not for administrative languages to follow a specific target form, nor for signs to be replaced. There would be a smaller bureaucratic solution, which nevertheless provided a certain linguistic policy consideration if it were to count. The Progress Party is left alone to defend common sense and to propose solutions that I think most people see as sensible. I refer to the World Gang on 1 October 2004, which is the price tag of the 25 million. kr for the exchange of names in Haukeland Hospital was mentioned. "This is crazy. The money should have been used to increase the manning," says the patient Arnt Stenset to the VG's reporter. We'll get that opinion. That is also the view of the Progress Party. Here you can either change the law, if you want to stop this once and for all, or you can simply define the health companies out of this law, as you have actively chosen to define them. If you define them again, you have solved the problems and you can spend money on patients instead of money on signs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e351	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e354	What's common sense is probably also a question about the eyes that see! The Progress Party has proposed that book targets should be used in municipalities where a majority of residents want this form of target. This means that even though many small municipalities want new Norwegian, a large city council could dictate that the choice still becomes bookkeeping. If the majority of the population in a region were to decide, it would mean that the new Norse would be in the minority almost everywhere. It is an important principle for the Christian People's Party that small and large municipalities count equally in this context. In addition, the language preferences of the inhabitants are already a key principle of the target law, including: by replying to letters from private individuals in the same form as in the enquiry. One of the objectives of the target law is to stimulate the use of new Norse to preserve an inalienable part of our cultural heritage. Public service target use law states that book targets and new Norwegian are equivalent target forms and shall be equivalent in written language. The Progress Party believes that today's legislation is unnecessary and costly. On the contrary, the Christian People's Party believes that we cannot afford to give way to the linguistic and cultural wealth that diversity represents. Democracies need mechanisms to protect minority interests. This applies not least in areas related to linguistic and cultural diversity. Language and language development affect all parts of society. The proposers request that health-care establishments be exempted from target form requirements using external administrative languages. After being taken over by the State, hospitals must be based on the language preferences of the inhabitants, which is a key principle of the target law. This is expressed, among other things. in the provision that state bodies shall respond to all requests made by private legal entities in the form of targets used in the enquiry. It should therefore not be necessary for Haukeland Hospital to replace envelopes and letter paper, as stated in the proposal. Among other things, as a result of this provision, the hospital will be used for letter paper and envelopes on both bookbooks and new Norwegian. However, all residents cannot receive their language preference in all public information which is not addressed exclusively to them. In principle, this is a good thing rather than a problem, among other things. because it helps to underline a requirement for linguistic and cultural tolerance that is currently necessary for all citizens of a civilised society. Although health enterprises prefer to decide for themselves, they have to comply with the objectives required by most municipalities. This is about democracy and awareness of the importance of language for culture and identity. The fact that neunorsk is less visible in public space than book measures means that many people choose book targets as written language, even though they have a language background that could make it natural to use neunorsk. Many of those who have had nostrils at school also go over to bookmaking. At a time when we are under pressure, we should not allow for liberalisation in the public sector. As politicians, we have to dry out rule in order to maintain the linguistic diversity we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e382	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We then proceed to the matter on the supplementary agenda. This setting has not been out of range for the regulatory period, i.e.: 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e402	Does anyone ask for the word? – No pay has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e405	Those who have moved to read the statement will have recorded that there has been a slight disagreement in the Presidency on the procedure with regard to the Special Committee proposed under Section 14 of the Rules of Procedure. The disagreement concerns briefly whether it should be left to the electoral committee on a free basis to consider what is the best objective of setting up such a special committee, when such a committee is very rare, or whether it is natural for one of the permanent committees of the Grand Duchy, in this case the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, to be the main component of that special committee, so that it is, in fact, supplemented by representatives of the parties which do not have permanent representatives in that committee. The reason why I have made my own point of view on this point is that, on the one hand, I believe that this is the correct understanding of Section 14 of the Rules of Procedure. If you want to use Section 14 of the Rules of Procedure and set up a special committee, it is in the nature of the provision that it should be a special committee and not one of the permanent committees supplemented by any representatives. What is more important is that the content of the matter, namely the handling of the notification of power, strongly argues that it is not one of the Permanent Committees of the United Kingdom that is the right addressee. The investigation of powers is cross-sectoral and initially concerns all policy areas and thus all the committees in Stortinget. It seems to me that when it is precisely in this case that the rare step is to set up a special committee, the most reasonable procedure is that the electoral committee can propose composition on a free basis and that the only condition that should be introduced is that all the party groups in the Storting should be represented in the special committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e416	There are hardly any cases sent to committees in this house that are so specialised that it does not affect many committees. That's why the house is composed in the way it's composed, with political parties that have their groups and their group meetings, which means that most of the issues that come to consideration in this room, alongside being dealt with in committee, are also dealt with in the different party groups. That's how you can involve the whole Biggest in the different issues. In Norwegian policy and, hopefully, in international policy, policy is comprehensive. It is soon not a matter, as Gro said, which does not affect other aspects of society as well. Should it be followed as usual when a matter of power and democracy is sent to the Storting, it would have been automatically sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee, because it is the Control and Constitutional Committee that is responsible for the matter which is just a matter of popular government and democracy. But because the party groups on the Stortinget have given priority to not all the parties being represented on the Control and Constitutional Committee, which they should have been, in my opinion, we come up with the problem that there are some parties that are not actively involved in the committee work on a question that this does not. The majority of the Grand Duchy has therefore come to the conclusion that the possibility of setting up a special committee to allow the three parties not represented in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to take an active part in the Committee's proceedings must be used here. Nevertheless, the view of the majority of the Presidency is that this matter belongs naturally to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. For this reason, a special committee has been selected, starting with the ten members of the Control and Constitutional Committee. You can then maintain the administration, and you can also use the functions of the Committee of Inquiry and the Constitutional Committee without having to make any special arrangements. With this, I would recommend the presidency's position with the comments made by the majority of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e427	First of all, I think it is important to thank the Presidency for the proper handling of the enquiry that was made. I think for my part that we should have left-wing people in all committees, like more people too, and we're always going to do something about that. It's a good principle that what you give attention to, you also give importance and power. One thing as important as this one should be discussed in a much wider range than our committee system really provides for. Maybe we should have done it a little bit more often, had a little bit more freer composition of committees, in order to be able to raise matters in a slightly different context than the one we usually work in. I have a great sense for Inge Wohnning's comments that we must not get too attached to one of the committees we have as a structure. There are many parliaments that work in much more solvable forms in terms of committee structure than we do, and I think that the treatment in the Stortinget had often insisted not to be so rigidly concerned with the structures we have at the bottom, even though they work well in our everyday lives. But I'm glad that we now have the opportunity to raise a case in a slightly special way, a case that is absolutely made for such a wide composition as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e440	Several have not asked for the floor on the supplementary agenda. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e448	The size is ready for voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e458	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-18.ana.ud52e509	There is no record. The President will wish you all a really good and well-earned Easter break.
