ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e43	The representatives Hilde Magnusson Lydvo, Laila Davøy and Børge Brende, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e58	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is unanimously elected President of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative, Ms Eriksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e65	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a system of specified rights for primary school education for adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e70	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e117	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day with a total speaking time of 4 hours, excluding lines and three-minute posts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 85 minutes, Progress Party 55 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 15 minutes and Left 15 minutes. It is proposed that there should be five lines in reply to the speeches by the main speakers of the political groups, the parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines in response to speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as the speeches by other government councils within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e128	Policy is to choose. At the autumn elections, the voters faced two clear options: a right-wing dominated option, which would have new tax incentives and increased use of private solutions, and would leave more of the governance of the market, and a red-green option, which would have better well-being over new tax incentives, which would strengthen the community, and which would have stronger governmental involvement in the development of employment and society. The election gave a new government. The budget shows a new course: well-being over tax relief, and strong strengthening of municipalities. It provides room for better schooling and better elderly services. There will be more and cheaper kindergartens, and more can be treated in hospitals. There will be new measures for those who have the least, more measures to reduce unemployment, better conditions for those who have become unemployed, and not least a boost for culture, for creativity. We see a policy that was not possible under the previous government. We see community where the right government said privatisation, we see welfare where the right government was so tax-free, and we see social governance where the right government said market power. The new majority has been quite clear. We don't promise tax havens. That's why Bondevik's tax base is zeroed out. We're not going to increase the overall level of taxation beyond what we had in 2004. That is why we see a limited increase in the level of taxes of DKK 3 billion compared to the level of the year. Most people come out with about the same level as today. There is a complete consensus that the tax system needs to change. Today, everything from senior lecturers to programme managers on television can organize themselves as a share company, sell the service to their old employer, and the total tax is reduced from about 61 pst. to 28 pst. Has a salary and an employer’s fee of 2.4 million. kr, one today can save NOK 700000 in taxes on such taxes – fully legal. This has to be changed. But then the tax on labour income and investment income has to be more equal. The Bondevik government would do this in a way that would give great tax relief to those with high incomes and large wealth. We think that's wrong. Those who have the most must contribute more to the community. Those with high incomes usually also have large dividends and large assets. Let's put the tax down on wages and salaries. At the same time, we increase the tax on dividends and increase the tax on wealth. The sum of this means clearly higher taxes for most high incomes. Those with gross income above 1 million. kr. receives, on average, a tax increase of close to NOK 44 000. The hundreds of the richest in Norway have an average tax increase of well over 1 million. kr each, even when disregarding the increased tax on dividends. This is a clear change of course in relation to the large tax burden that the same groups would receive with the Bondevik government's budget for next year, and for which they received with the Bondevik government's budget this year, and there is a clear price change from the priority of tax relief over welfare, as marked by the previous government. I have noted with interest that the leader of the Christian People's Party, Dagfinn Højbräten, in his speech to the National Government after the elections, pointed out that the Sem Declaration – which the Bondevik government was guided by – gave ‘tax-related very high priority in relation to other important tasks’. I think the Højbråten is right that the voters do not want tax reliefs to go at the expense of important welfare tasks. He also warns that the Christian People’s Party will not give priority to tax relief in the future. At the same time, Højbräten took self-criticism that the Christian People's Party has not been able to create credibility and results in terms of the local economy. "There was a need for a much stronger effort than what we were able to fight for," said Højbrätten. The new government has removed the tax relief of the Right. Then there was also room for a strong strengthening of the municipalities, and there was room for much more measures for the weakest among us. The summit says that the fight against poverty is the most important thing for the Christian People's Party. The growth of this group is tripled by the new government. We would like to invite the Højbräten and the Christian People's Party to a constructive interaction for the benefit of the community and for the benefit of the people in the community. We have a new situation with a majority behind the new government. Both lobbyists and journalists seem to be having difficulties getting used to the new situation. While the government parties will have an open dialogue with the opposition, the point of course is to have a majority that the Government is assured of its support for its proposals. Policies must be designed in close interaction between the Government and the large-scale groups. But the interaction, the recordings and the political anchoring happen, of course, before the Government and the party leaders draw their conclusions, not afterwards. We've heard journalists making it amazing that there's no change in the budget. But that's what's the difference between majority government and minority government. We have been used to budget proposals from minority governments that are subject to major changes in the Storting following negotiations and crises. There has been a significant weakness for Norwegian democracy and a challenge to economic governance. That's why it was important to have a majority rule, so the voters know who's responsible, and so we ensure stable governance of the economy. We have seen this confirmed in the autumn. The government's draft budget is adopted today without changes, and we see that the government's economic policy has great confidence in the markets. So what's the alternative? The party of progress has become the second largest party of the Storting and is committed to building a broad bourgeois alternative. The party of progress continues to emphasize that they have become a so-called more serious party. However, their alternative budget is closer to the play ‘think of a number’. This is where they'll cut over 800 million. kr for culture. Half of all employees in the Ministry of Health have to be dismissed. The surveillance of air traffic is being severely cut. Agricultural incomes are almost halved — to name a pinch of action. The Progress Party itself believes that their trick is to create a so-called foreign budget. That's $7.7 billion. It is claimed that there will be no effect on prices and interest levels in Norway because it is used abroad. You can have a lot of opinions about it. But if spending money abroad does not have an impact on the Norwegian economy, does it not have an impact on the Norwegian economy? As a result, it is not possible to cut appropriations for aid to be used as a cover to increase other national appropriations. Here, however, it is all of a sudden appropriate for the Progress Party to present it as if action abroad had an effect in Norway, and then to help pay domestic measures. This, in turn, shows that the budget of the Progress Party is not linked. It may be tempting to compare with what appears to be an ideal for the Progress Party, namely a private limited liability company. But if a private limited liability company had presented its economy in this way, it would not only have been in a serious economic situation, it would also have operated on the edge of the law and on the edge of the rules of good accounting. If the Advance Party takes the aim of appearing as an alternative to the Government, it must be possible to expect something more serious than this. So where does the Progress Party become as a party for the most people they call themselves? The promotion party gives Norway’s 100 richest an average tax bill of about 5 million. kr each only on taxes on wealth. It's probably hardly for the people most. At the same time, the economic structure of the Progress Party would probably lead to a clear increase in interest rates. It hits "people most." The interest rate increase would drive up the exchange rate. This means unemployment in industry, travel and other competitive business. It also hits ‘people most.’ At the same time, the Progress Party collects the money from the pension fund. It means poorer pensions in the future for ‘most people’. It would be better if the Progress Party talked less about its seriousness and did something more to get serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e179	The President took note of the designation ‘the right-wing administration’. As long as one of the parties in the previous government was called the Right, it would be a factual error to claim that it was a right-wing government. A small h does not last as long as it is a party with that name. The President accepts ‘right-dominated’ as an opinion. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e184	It is interesting to listen to the case rapporteur, whom I would like to suggest to the government parties, but who took so many minutes to characterise the policy of the Progress Party. It's so nice that we get attention to our policies. This may indicate that the Workers' Party has something to hide, as he spent so little time talking about what they actually serve the voters here today through the budget setting. At first I noticed that Schjøtt-Pedersen thought that using something more of the petroleum revenues was taking away from future pensions. Does this mean that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen wants to earmark this petroleum fund for future pensions? I have also registered that last year the Workers' Party was occupied with a number of things they suddenly are no longer concerned with this year. Last year they were among others strongly critical of the increase in VAT. Now they are presenting a budget that increases food VAT and some other VAT rates. What has changed from last year to this year, except that they are in position this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e193	The progress party seems to suffer from the belief that spending money has no consequences. But the economic structure of the Progress Party really increases the use of money in the economy by NOK 27 billion. This does not just mean that we get a stronger pressure on the economy, that we get a stronger price pressure, and that we get higher interest rates, which means that many people around the community will have the most economic problems. It also results in the exchange rate being pushed up, with the effects it has on competitive business, with loss of jobs as a result. It should in itself be a warning enough, as the Progress Party should take over. In addition, using the oil fund, the future pension fund, means that there will be less money for future pensions, and that means less security for future pensions. It also hits "people most".
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e198	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen spends a lot of time boasting of all the tax increases proposed by the Government. Yes, there is a part that gets increased tax: those who invest their own money in jobs and businesses get increased tax. Many pensioners are taxed more, and property owners are taxed more. In the election campaign, the Right Workers' Party challenged the possibility that the Workers' Party would reintroduce or increase some form of housing tax. In the evening post for August 23, Hill-Marta Solberg says: «I can guarantee that we will not reintroduce the house tax. I can guarantee that we will not be in favour of a State property tax." This does not appear to be half-truth at best when the Workers' Party and its government partners have proposed an increase in the Equation Fees on dwellings by 25 pst.? According to Peter Batta of the Landersförbund, this will result in an increase in property taxes for those who have property taxes of NOK 1,650. Does the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen think this is not increasing any forms of house tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e210	The government has not proposed to reintroduce housing tax benefits. I can't see that there's any element of this budget. Through its platform, the government has determined that property taxes should be a voluntary municipal tax. However, the Financial Regulation of the Right also includes taxes on wealth, even if the Right believes that it should be removed over time. The economic structure of the Right also means that there is a tax on the wealth of the various objects included in the property, among other things. housing. And then the change proposed in the valuation has an effect on the property tax. We believe that property taxes are an important part of the overall tax system. It is also the main explanation that, while the previous government presented an economic arrangement that would provide significant relief for groups with high incomes, the red-green government has provided an economic structure that means that groups with high incomes in total are more likely to contribute to the community when it comes to taxes on wages, wealth and dividends in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e217	I understand that Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen is an avid reader of Dagfinn Høybräten's speeches, and I also understand that there was constructive reading for the chairman of the finance committee, even though it was quite selective. If he had read the speech, he would also have seen that the Christian People's Party is committed to the tax reform, that we stand firm that tax relief was absolutely necessary for business, not least when the Bondevik government took over, to get the economy on foot and secure Norwegian jobs. Thank you for the invitation. I would like to ask Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen: when you make a significant cut in the cash support, you cut in the transfer to private colleges that train nurses, teachers and preschool teachers, you cut in the transfer to the church council, you cut in the transfer to the counselling service for pregnant people, you cut in the capital subsidy to both the colleges and freedom, and you don't increase the tax deduction to the voluntary organizations, what is it that implies an invitation to the Christian People's Party in the cuts I have mentioned here?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e224	I have benefited greatly from reading the Høybråten speech. I record that the greatest transition from the Christian People's Party at the election was actually to the Workers' Party, and I record that there is a similar view of important choices in the policy of the Christian People's Party and the sitting government. If we look at the differences in the budget for the Christian People's Party and the Right – not in the current year while they have been in government together, but the traditional differences – yes, then there is a significant difference between these parties. For example, the Right will traditionally cut off aid to developing countries, while the Christian People's Party wants the opposite. This type of deviation is also seen between the sitting government and e.g. Christian People's Party. At the same time, however, we see that in important areas, such as the Højbråten, the emphasis is on speech. the importance of strengthening the local economy and choosing well-being over tax relief is a parallel view. That, in my view, provides a basis for constructive cooperation, to which I would like to invite.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e233	Let me first thank the President for correcting the committee leader as regards the name of the previous government. I have to admit that there were days in the previous government that were very good for me too – as Schjött-Pedersen obviously has a good day today – where I had a feeling that it was definitely a left-dominant government I was a member of. With regard to this tax debate, which this is going to be about, it is a fact that the tax arrangements proposed by the Government are much closer to that of the outgoing government than both the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have outlined in their own fundraising programmes and alternative budgets – and not least in the rhetoric they had in the election campaign. It's not particularly social either. OK, it's a little less top estimate than the last government suggested, and a little bit more property tax, but they've underestimated the fact that they halve the relief in the minimum deduction. Then I ask, what's so social about giving tax incentives to ordinary employee incomes, while those with average labour income get a lot of tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e241	It's not tax-enforcement for people with normal employee incomes. They come out roughly as in the current year. The Labour Party criticised the tax reform of the previous government on two points. One was that the tax reform would be combined with a tax bill of $12 billion. We thought that was wrong. We thought that this money should be spent on school, care and pensions. In addition, we criticized the distribution effect, because the previous government provided relief in the top tax in parallel with relief in the property tax, and even wanted to remove the property tax. We thought that was wrong. That's why we've added a completely different profile to the tax reform, which leads to those with incomes of over 1 million. kr on average comes out with a tax tightening of NOK 44 000. It is a much better social profile than that of the previous government, and it is also a better social profile than that of the existing tax system. And let me end by saying that it's not least a completely different profile than the tax scheme that the outgoing government presented for the current year, where it added to the tax relief of almost NOK 30000 for the group of SEK 1.5 million. NOK in income, while next year we will give a tax tightening of well NOK 18 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e250	I note that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen certainly has considerable insight into the alternative state budget of the Progress Party. I very much appreciate the fact that the chairman of the Finance Committee has been so deeply involved in the alternative state budget of the Advance Party, but he would probably rather spend the time getting into his own position and what they actually choose to promote. I record that the property tax is a tax that will take the rich. Very many pensioners in this country have to pay taxes on wealth. Where, then, is the social profile when these groups are going to be affected by this tax arrangement that the Government and the government parties add up to? Then I miss some things that the representative from the Workers' Party was concerned about a year ago, and I didn't feel that I got any answer to the questions I raised instead. Why aren't you now very concerned about doing something about the patient treatment in Norwegian hospitals? Last year, representatives from the Workers' Party were very interested in talking about strengthening the hospital economy. Now that the Progress Party is proposing it, it is in many ways ridiculed in relation to our economic policy. I will come back to that more later, but I would like to get an extension from the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e259	It is true that the representative Leirstein refers to the fact that the Bondevik government budget would lead to a reduced level of hospital treatment. That would be wrong. That is why the Stoltenberg government has proposed to grant NOK 0.5 billion more, so that patients can be strengthened and maintained. What I have questioned about the budget of the Progress Party is primarily the lack of overall economic governance, but also the distribution effect between different groups. The Government – the Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre – has accepted changes in property taxes, which means that those with lower assets are better affected by the change in taxes on wealth and receive higher deductions. The Progress Party proposes that the hundreds of the richest people in this country should average 5 million. kr in tax on the taxes on wealth each. What's reasonable about that? Is it an expression of concern to most people that you give massive tax relief to those who have the most? Otherwise, I have to assure the representative that we are going to follow closely what is in the alternative budgets of the Progress Party, so that we get clarity about the consequences of them – consequences that I regret to note that the Progress Party does not always take the same amount of inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e268	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e271	I am going to talk in my speech about the policy of the Progress Party. That, I think, is a good way to clarify some of the misunderstandings that the rapporteur has clearly come up with in the past. The party of progress has faith in the individual, and that each of us will be able to make decisions that relate to our own lives to a greater extent than today. The state budget proposals of the Progress Party for 2006 only show the direction we want the state to adopt in order to achieve our long-term goals for society. By re-prioritising the government budget for one year, not all the changes needed to achieve a freer and better society for individuals in all areas of society cannot be shown. That is why our draft budget must be read as the first steps on the way to achieving the goals the Progress Party wants for society. In our alternative state budget, we have focused on: tax reduction tax reductions and investments that contribute to increasing efficiency and improving resource use laws and reforms that act over time to increase efficiency and productivity in the Norwegian economy; The Progress Party attaches great importance to improving public sector services through efficiency, investment and rationalisation. Investments in public owned assets will increase the growth in both public and private value creation. The Progress Party believes that the Government allows public assets and thus many of the primary public tasks to be weathered. More needs to be invested in the public sector, especially in the health and care sector, so that most people can better provide public services. Competitive outsourcing will increase the efficiency of service production and can be implemented even if the public is responsible for financing and quality assurance of services. The desire to make the necessary investments in the public sector must not be misunderstood in the sense that the Progress Party wants a larger public sector. On the contrary, the Progress Party is concerned about the strong growth in government expenditure. In our alternative state budget, we make significant changes to the main priorities of the budget. The promotion party cuts significantly in current government expenditure, but at the same time redistributes to, inter alia: health, justice and the transport sector. These maximum necessary repriorities include: Unable to open file %1, aborting. improving the social profile of health services’ overall economic strength of the justice sector’s strengthening of defence-enhancing road construction efforts At the same time, the Progress Party reduces the overall tax burden by more than DKK 28 billion. This has beneficial effects on the economy because: investing, working and saving becomes more profitable, which improves the basis for economic growth products and services becomes more reasonable as a result of tax relief trade is reduced as a result of tax relief and contributes to increased employment as well as less opportunistic and other illegal activities The attacks on the budget of the Progress Party have often been the disposal of revenues from the petroleum activity. For the current year, it has been decided to dispose of NOK 22 billion more than the rule of action suggests. The proposal of the Progress Party for next year is that we have 29 billion more dollars than the rule of action suggests. Since its introduction in 2001, the action rule has never been complied with. And then it seems strange that the only rewarding thing in fiscal policy is to follow this so-called rule of action when no government has so far committed itself to following it. How, then, can the Progress Party be accused of being so-called irresponsible, when the majority of the population have chosen the same so-called irresponsibility in all budgets adopted since 2001 when the rule was introduced? By the end of 2009, it can be expected that the Petroleum Fund will sound at NOK 2 500 billion. If you apply the rule of action, that means that at that time you can dispose of NOK 100 billion. So it's almost ten times more than the government and the population add up to 2006. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is important to distinguish consumption from investment when using revenues from the petroleum activity. The Progress Party believes that a responsible and long-term management of oil wealth must focus on maximising economic growth and that oil revenues can thus be used more widely for necessary investments rather than investments in foreign securities. It helps very little for future generations that they inherit our oil wealth in the form of an oil fund, if at the same time they are facing huge investments that have been inadequate in the past. The Progress Party is committed to saving funds to meet future commitments. But we can afford something better. The Progress Party is promoting proposals to reduce taxes and taxes by more than DKK 28 billion. Providing a reduction in taxes is not something you do to be kind. By reducing taxes and taxes, people are choosing to keep more of their income and resources than what is added to the adjustment from the bulk of the population. Most people prefer to work for their own income and live on it. It gives people dignity and makes the work more meaningful. The Progress Party will therefore want tax relief to be noticed for the majority of people, and that the relief will be particularly beneficial to those with low income. The Progress Party proposes a significant commitment to the development of Norwegian roads, important investments in our hospitals, strengthening and necessary procurement for our defence, better care for the elderly, increased resources for Norwegian schools, significant provision for research in key social areas and investments requested by industry. These are some examples of investments that it is important for the Progress Party to point out that we can afford. It would make sense to invest in the future and facilitate future generations. We can afford something better. A number of the proposals of the Progress Party will give a significantly more social profile to all those groups in our society that have little. Through the state budget, we have the opportunity to give a pledge to all the country's minimum pensioners. The Progress Party proposes to increase the minimum pension by NOK 5000 from next year. Norway can afford to keep the food tax at 11 p.m., rather than increase it to 13 p.m., as the Government has proposed. Increases in household expenditure will particularly affect those who have a low prevalence. We want an escalation to reach the full basic pension for cohabiting pensioners. We propose that the special deduction for age and disability be increased. At the same time, our tax and tax cuts will be the most noticeable for those who have little. The Progress Party notes that we as a nation are still experiencing a development that we do not want. In particular, we see this in the area of crime. This is why there is a need for an investment budget for the police. The Progress Party wants the police to have an investment budget of 500 million. kr for the next year, so that our officials and women can obtain the necessary equipment to ensure their own safety and strengthen the fight against an ever more brutal and hesitant crime. The promotion party wants a system with a direct payment via the individual user for the provision of personal care. But the political majority wants a system in which the economy and priorities of the municipality of residence are to determine what offers are given when care is needed. Until we can put in place a new funding system, the Progress Party wants the municipalities, which are currently responsible for the care of the elderly, to have significant increased resources. But unlike the Government, we want to earmark large parts of the strength that municipalities will receive in 2006. In today’s system, only the designation of care for the elderly and the school provides the citizens with a guarantee that increased resources actually go to better care for the elderly and to school. We want municipalities to offer more and better health homes. We want municipalities to provide better home-based services. We want a strengthening of the school, focusing on the content. Therefore, the Progress Party will earmark billions for the municipal sector. The budget of the Progress Party is based on the fact that Norway can afford something better. The difference in Norwegian policy goes in many areas between the Progress Party on the one hand and the other political parties on the other. The Progress Party believes that we can avoid a little bit more well-being. The other parties doubt the argument that if we use one more cent, it goes wrong. The difference between the Advance Party and all the other parties is a difference that we as a party can live with. But what is sad is that a number of people who have been working through a long life are not now going to benefit from the wealth they have laid the foundation for. The other parties have a long way to go, suggesting that Norway cannot afford more well-being. But a false claim doesn't become a fact just because you repeat the claim many times enough. The Progress Party notes that in its position on the State budget, the majority of parties choose to run through all matters as the Government has promoted them to the Stortinget. In his speech of accession in this Chamber, the Prime Minister was concerned about working with the opposition. In budgetary terms, this is clearly not desirable. I refer to all our proposals made by the Progress Party in the budgetary position, and to the proposals made by the Progress Party in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e360	Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e365	I noticed that the representative Leirstein said that Norway can afford something better, and that we need to avoid a little more well-being. The Progress Party is in the management of several of our municipalities, among others. in some of our largest municipalities, including: in Oslo. Today we can read headlines in the newspaper about the stopwatch for all home help in Oslo. Does the representative of Leirstein and the Progress Party believe that older people living in Oslo feel that it is the welfare of the Progress Party that flows against them when they are put under stopwatch control for how much to wash, when wheelchair user Elsa Evjen in the Newspaper says it won't be very clean once a month? This government has prioritised a strengthening of the municipal economy that allows municipalities to spend more money on this kind of welfare. But it's the municipalities that decide what to spend this money for. Does not the representative of Leirstein feel a certain distance between the language of the Progress Party and what we see in the policy of the Progress Party, among other things. in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e372	If we're talking about stopwatches, I can refer to a number of worker party controlled municipalities where you're supposed to use the same kind of stopwatch and the kind of forms. But that is not what the debate is about. It is about providing greater well-being. It is true that the Progress Party in its budget is now proposing to allocate as much fresh funds to the municipal sector as to the government parties. The big difference is that while the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen is concerned that some municipalities may be able to spend that money on something other than care and school, the Progress Party is proposing to designate significant parts of this, so that all older and schoolchildren are guaranteed that these increased incomes come to care for the elderly and to school, and not to other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e379	I have the greatest understanding that the representative of Leirstein does not address the context of the Norwegian economy, that using increased oil money actually leads to increased pressure on interest rates. But I also have a great understanding that taking money from the Pension Fund – I want to make the representative of Leirstein aware that the oil fund has now become a pension fund – that taking money from our future pensioners is not particularly social. It is generally accepted the truth that increasing money usage actually leads to increased pressure on interest rates, which in turn leads to a reinforced exchange rate. This is a policy for the massive relocation of competitive business. It has a hair-removing social profile by the fact that families with children will particularly suffer from an increased interest rate. But I understand that our pensioners in Spain will enjoy the budget proposals of the Advance Party, and they are an increasing electoral base for the party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e386	I understand that the Right Representative is concerned with electoral bases. It might have been good to have. [[Laughter]] I think it's quite amazing that more representatives, including the last representative, are talking about that we've now got a pension fund, and that it's for pensions. You can't talk with any credibility about it until this so-called pension fund is earmarked for pensions. We look forward to dealing with the case about the pension fund and to seeing if we can then get a majority to get rules that make funds earmarked for future pensions. I think in many ways that the Right should not talk about the rule of action and the context of the Norwegian economy. The previous government, in four years, was able to exceed the 100 billion DKK rule of action, despite boasting that many areas of society were going reasonably well. The social profile was the Progress Party that contributed when we agreed to a settlement. It has granted several representatives of the former government parties. So there I feel that we are on safe ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e395	In the previous period, the current parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, was one of SV's best allies in the work and the fight for cheap kindergarten for all. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party spends SEK 1.3 billion in the bet on kindergartens. Is it so that the Progress Party has now gone away from its promises of cheap kindergartens, to which they, together with SV, were initiators in the previous period? Is it so that the Progress Party has soon intended to tell all its voters, who actually prided themselves on the fact that even the Advance Party would stand by the promise they made in the last period, that they have now gone away from this promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e403	For the Progress Party, freedom of choice is important in family policy. Of course, when we talk about a big effort on the development of kindergartens, it's important, as a unanimous magnification in the past has expressed. However, it is also important to ensure freedom of choice, including: through the cash support. The new government chooses, small enough, to cut a small part of the cash support system that you have today. The whole prerequisite for entering into that kind of settlement was that the freedom of choice should be at the bottom, and that there should be equal treatment for private kindergartens and municipal kindergartens. Therefore, in its budget, the Progress Party has largely relied on the framework on which the outgoing government was able to put in place more kindergartens. We have this focus on, but we are also concerned that there should be a considerable freedom of choice for the families of young children, something that the new government is obviously not concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e412	For the Christian People's Party, the fight against poverty and for increased aid are the most important. The road to international peace is about a fairer distribution of world resources. In our visit was the then Vice President of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, Uganda. She witnessed poverty and distress and saw the importance of Norwegian assistance. She said in this regard that the Progress Party would accept the Christian People's Party's policy for increased aid, and entered into the election campaign with promises of a new aid policy. Today's vote shows that the Progress Party has not turned its back on aid policy. Why? Was it just to charm the Christian People's Party? Didn't Siv Jensen's words deal with the poorest in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e421	It is not easy for this representative to be an intermediary between the representative Siv Jensen and the replicant as to what Siv Jensen experienced in Uganda. If you had read what Siv Jensen said, among other things. In our partisan when she came home, and heard what she had said, one had found that it was absolutely right that she so much misery. But she also saw that much of the u-help money goes to corrupt heads of state, putting them in her own pocket. They're kind of getting to those who actually need it. That is why we agree with the new government that we should cut some of what goes on directly, bilaterally. But we're cutting a lot more. We are concerned to see this in the context of, among other things. agricultural policy, that countries with a challenge are given the opportunity to sell their products also to Norway and to other rich countries in Europe. We want increased support for disaster relief, which we have included in our budget. Not least, we want to provide significantly more support for and better framework conditions for non-governmental organisations, which are making a major effort to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e432	Ulf Leirstein and the Advance Party promise us a freer and a better society. They also say that they should be responsible – and be responsible in cooperation with other parties. I want to point out a few things in your budget option. You are proposing enormous tax reductions, DKK 28 billion. What are the consequences for Community solutions? They are proposing significant cuts in u-help, DKK 8-9 billion. It breaks the line of international solidarity. They propose enormous cuts in agricultural transfers, making agriculture impossible throughout the country. I want to ask Leirstein: is this a responsible policy, or is it a demonstration policy? The party of progress now stands for one single moment. How are they going to proceed in terms of cooperation, when they come up with such a demonstration policy? How do they want to cooperate with other parties in the Great Britain on the basis that they have presented here?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e441	I do not know whether the last thing the replicator mentioned must be interpreted as perhaps wanting to invite the Progress Party into the heat of the new government, so that a broader parliamentary basis could be found, too much could indicate that in individual matters the new government might have a great need for it. With regard to the issues raised by the representative, it is that when we cut into some agricultural subsidies, we also introduce some transitional arrangements in our budget, so that it can go easier than just introducing a flat cut. In fact, I believe that the WTO negotiations we are experiencing these days, such as, among other things. a central party council is responsible for, most likely leading to major agricultural conversions in Norway. That way, only blueberries will be cut by the Advance Party. U-help was I inside instead. In terms of tax relief, in fact, we in our government budget also cut significantly in part of the expenditure of the state, just to show that we not only give tax relief, but also can re-prioritise the budget we have for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e452	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e455	Economic policy The Right was implemented in government, giving us both a low interest rate and a stronger economic growth than most of the central EU countries. Therefore, tax revenue is now growing more than expected and provides several billion dollars to strengthen well-being. With our proposal for the State budget and the adjustments made by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the financial position, this positive development would be reinforced: Growth in the economy is more conducive to psychiatry, to kindergartens and care. The setting-up of policies provides a basis for tomorrow's well-being through an economic policy that ensures low interest rates and greater private sector space, a knowledge policy in which children receive more training and teachers more training, and a forward-looking industrial policy in which enterprises receive lower taxes, and where more emphasis is placed on research, development and innovation. Such a policy creates security and opportunities – security because we keep the economy in order, rates of education, policies that safeguard jobs and welfare policies that help more people to cope with themselves, and opportunities because individuals, communities and businesses that have more room for action take more responsibility and contribute to a positive development. Many European countries look to the Nordic countries and Norway to learn from our success — a success linked to the combination of good welfare systems and a dynamic working and business life. They look to the Nordic countries and Norway, not to copy our welfare systems, but to learn from our employment and industrial policies. The Stoltenberg government is going the opposite way and is warning a copy of the failure of other countries. While our competitors in Europe are now lowering taxes and removing regulations, the Stoltenberg government is going counter-clockwise and alerts higher taxes and more regulations. It's not without reason that more people ask if it's the France of unemployment that's the lighthouse of the new government. A few weeks after the election, the newspaper headlined the first page that the Stoltenberg government came to the covered table. The explanation is obvious. The Norwegian economy is very strong. Never before have more people been in work, and never before have so many companies been established. The government budget of the red-green government confirms this positive development. Kristin Halvorsen describes a picture where most things are going well. The problem is that the Minister of Finance obviously has not understood why things are going so well. In fact, the Stoltenberg Government removes the instruments that have contributed to the positive development: A flexible labour market must be regulated.A low-interest policy has become a policy that will increase the pressure on interest rates and the krone price.A policy that created room for privacy has become a policy that will shift labour from industry to the public sector. Getting to the deck table provides a great starting point. But the possibilities can also be squandered. What was supposed to be an active industrial policy has become an active policy to get rid of industrial policy instruments, as Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen also confirmed when he was confronted with the cuts in nutrition research. The increased space for action that has emerged in the red-green budget due to new estimates uses the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, among others. to further strengthen nutrient-oriented research. Today, we are promoting a proposal that gives the Government a new chance to fill the Research Fund in the context of the revised national budget, in line with the proposal promoted by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the budget. The budget will provide a huge increase in taxation for self-employed and family-run enterprises. Nearly half a million pensioners get increased property taxes with the Stoltenberg government budget compared to ours. Increased taxes on capital and capital income will make it more expensive for the Nordics to own businesses in Norway. The Minister of Finance is very concerned to ‘prove’ that she takes the rich. When a finance minister from SV is going to take the rich, she obviously thinks of people who invest their own money in Norwegian businesses. Because according to the Ministry of Finance's own calculations, the effective tax rate will be 1 million. kr invested in an enterprise, become almost 55 pst. What effect does the Minister of Finance think this will have on investment in new jobs? And what signal does the Minister of Finance think it is to those who are concerned with Norwegian ownership of our businesses? The Minister of Finance has had to endure strong criticism of his tax proposal, and that is not without reason. If I had said in the election campaign that Kristin Halvorsen as Minister of Finance would have granted himself $15,000 in tax relief, while a person who earns half would receive tax austerity, I am convinced that Kristin Halvorsen would have said that now it's coming to rattle for Sanner, and now the Right must end with this black paint. Of course, Kristin Halvorsen deserves tribute for following up parts of the tax reform and has removed the great injustice that exists in the tax system between taxes on income and taxes on capital. But there is no beautiful impact that Kristin Halvorsen and Jens Stoltenberg have had after their political downcast. Everyone who followed the debate in the election campaign, and everyone who knows what the Workers' Party and SV stood for in the previous period, sees the screaming contrast as it is between words and action. While some people get a few hundred thousand in tax relief, the tax relief we had proposed on low and common incomes is removed and replaced with a few hundred patches. For the right, it has always been a key point in fiscal policy that all income groups should receive lower taxes. If fiscal policy is to have legitimacy, it must also be fair. It's worth working, so it's important for the Right to reduce the tax on both low and ordinary income. Of course, one should not exaggerate the effect of one state budget. One State budget has limited impact. But the red-green government has made a fundamental shift in economic policy. While the right has been concerned with creating greater room for the private sector by limiting the growth of public expenditure, red-green taxes are increasing to increase public expenditure. The Ministry of Finance confirms in reply to the Right of Budget questions that this policy shift can lead to increased pressure on interest rates and that labour is moved from the private sector to the public sector. The Ministry writes: ‘Tax reliefs will generally appear less expansive in the economy than increased consumption in the public sector.’ The Minister of Finance is trying to reassure everyone who has a lot of loans, that the red-green policy will not lead to interest rate increases. It's not credible. Of course, when the budget at the time of the presentation did not come to a conclusion in the market, it is because the market had already priced in the red-green policy. Therefore, faster and higher interest rates are expected now than before the election. The budget of Halvorsen and Stoltenberg has twice as high as the budget of the Centre-Right Government. In the examination of the budget, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also add to a slightly lower use of oil money. The Ministry of Finance also points out that the long-term impact of stronger growth in public expenditure is that labour is shifted from the private sector to the public sector. The Ministry writes: ‘To the extent that changes in the level of taxation and public demand do not result in changes in productivity or in access to factors of production, increased public consumption will have to be matched by a shift of resources from other activities in the longer term.’ This is a ministerial language, but it means that labour is moved from industry to the public sector. This also deepens the ministry by pointing to the negative impact of tax increases. The Ministry writes: ‘There is experience that an increase in the level of taxation alone can help to dampen the underlying growth of the labour supply and thus increase the pressure on private business.’ These professional assessments have been ignored by Kristin Halvorsen and her government, and they have obvious negative effects when they are not followed. The budget takes more steps in the wrong direction and can give us a triple message – first increased taxes, then higher interest rates, and gradually lower growth will bring us less to welfare. I refer to the proposals that have been made by the Right with other parties in the position of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e543	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e548	It's pretty much just the Right who's managed to see ghosts in the budget that we're discussing today. On the contrary, through thorough investigations, the Ministry has determined that the budget is roughly neutral in the economy, and the market has found – and I quote the group economist in DnB NOR – that ‘this is, to the most extent, a responsible budget’. I noticed that Sanner said that the new government had gone to the table. In this case, there is a table where dirty cups remain — with higher unemployment, with less growth in employment, with an increasing interest rate and with poorer welfare services around many municipalities. Then I notice that Sanner boasts of the Nordic welfare model and says that many countries want to come to Norway to look at how the public and private sectors play together, for example. in labour and industrial policy. But is it because these things work so well that right so would like to change it, among other things. through the amendment of occupational health and safety legislation? Is it because the interaction between the public and private sectors has been shown to have a positive impact on productivity that Sanner believes it is so important to reduce public intervention in order to make less contribution to welfare and less contribution to development also in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e557	The right has been involved in developing the Nordic welfare model, and we are proud of the Nordic welfare model. In fact, we have been in government in the last four years and strengthened many key welfare areas, just as the bourgeois government in Denmark has. And there have been bourgeois governments both in Sweden and in Finland. It is not that the Nordic welfare model is a result of social democracy. The right has also been involved in developing it, and we're proud of it. But it also needs to be developed. And one of the things that has been the strength of the Nordic welfare model is that we have had a flexible labour market, a dynamic industrial policy, which is the very basis for our well-being. That's what we've been concerned about in these four years, that we have to ensure the future welfare by stimulating businesses and business. So now we see that tax revenue is increasing. We've lowered the taxes on businesses, but when it's more created, there's also more to distribute. That's why it's now more to distribute to psychiatry, to kindergartens and to care. It is part of the Nordic welfare model, and I record that the Workers' Party is now removing many of the tools that have created the positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e564	I note that the representative, Mr Sanner, is satisfied with the policy pursued by the bourgeois government, including the tax payments he received. I would remind you that the Progress Party has been a necessary commitment to much of that policy, and that all the tax incentives implemented have also been implemented with the support of the Progress Party. When, on the other hand, the dividend tax for which the bourgeois government went to the bureau, it was a settlement with the Labour Party. We don't want to support what we wanted important improvements. We were also afraid that the rule that the property tax was to be removed would not be met. The fear now turns out to be real. My question to the representative Jan Tore Sanner is: does the representative Sanner see that one should have taken some other steps, so that one would ensure that the wealth tax was also removed before the dividend tax was introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e574	This was a little bit of a surprising line. I believe I have seen in the Evening Post that the Progress Party is now supporting the dividend tax and is actually using it in its alternative budget. It is true that I have been involved in negotiating three budgets with the Progress Party. There is no doubt that if the Progress Party had then wanted to give priority to lower taxes on wealth, we would have been willing to meet it, because it would have been in line with government policy. But you chose to give a completely different priority. I agree with the good cooperation we have had with the Progress Party throughout the last four years. We achieved many good results together. But I record that the Progress Party now, after the elections, has fallen back to the old populist line: they have chosen not to adjust economic policy somewhat towards the other bourgeois parties, but instead have chosen the marker line. I hope that the Advance Party will gradually choose to approach the other bourgeois parties a little bit more so that we can cooperate even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e581	Jan Tore Sanner drew an image in which he produced it as if the new government wanted the France of unemployment. Now I can reassure Jan Tore Sanner that we are actually increasing the number of action areas, just to combat unemployment. Jan Tore Sanner also came to the point that tax increases alone have a negative effect. But nothing works ‘insulatedly’ in an economy. My old principal Victor Normann, who Jan Tore Sanner should know, always said that one had to make total cost assessments. Isolatedly, it has a negative effect if you spend your money on aunt and aunt, but we're going to spend our money in a reasonable way. It must be disappointing for Jan Tore Sanner that a government with SV both creates greater growth in the Norwegian economy and creates more jobs, while ensuring stable economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e590	The truth is that the representative Heikki Holmås cannot mention one single proposal that contributes to creating more jobs in the red-green budget compared to ours. The creation of several action sites does not create jobs; it is a measure to help people return to the labour market. Creating new jobs must be done by facilitating businesses and business. In our budget, we have lowered taxes to facilitate business, we have provided a more flexible labour environment law, we have made sure to focus more on research, development and innovation. It helps to strengthen businesses and to increase the creation of new jobs. When I have pointed to France's unemployment rate, it seems that the new government is now copying much of the policy that has created the problems in France, namely that there is an over-regulated labour market and an over-regulated business policy. It does not contribute to creating the jobs in the private sector that we need to reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e599	The ability of our society to combine long-term ownership, knowledge and rich natural resources has produced good results. It strongly contributes to our prosperity development and social development. As the Right says, economic policy is important, but, in the view of the Centre Party, it must be complemented by an active and practical business policy. ‘Industrial neutrality’ was a tribute from the former Minister of Finance of the Right. My question to the representative is: Does the Right now want to nuance this in the future in order to develop a more practical business policy, where industrial relations and the social responsibility of different types of companies are also taken into account? There are many business leaders around the whole country who wonder why Right is not more practical in their business policy. [[Jan Tore Sanner stumbled into a purse on his way to the pulpit.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e610	It's obvious that there are a lot of people who put out stumble threads a day. There is only one government that has used the term ‘nutritional neutrality’. It was the previous Stoltenberg government. [[Laughter]] Right-wing wants a future-oriented enterprise policy, where we facilitate businesses, for industry and for business. If we're so concerned about business policy in the Right, it's because we're concerned about well-being. We're concerned that we have to create the values before we use them. That is why we are concerned that companies should have lower taxes, but also that we should focus more on industrial research, development and innovation. We need to invest more in infrastructure. There are many different approaches to industrial policy. But there I think Lundtigen has several hens to pick with his own business minister, who are now removing the tools we used to stimulate businesses and business. Nor can Lundtigen mention a single proposal in the budget of the government of Stoltenberg which contributes to more jobs in the private sector than was provided for in our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e619	It's a fact that the new government and the old government stick to the same economic framework, that is. that an equal amount of money is being used. But there are clearly different opinions about how the money is going to be used. There are also many of our local and regional populaces who have noticed. Very many of them are concerned with a decent care and proper training for our children. The municipalities will receive a growth of DKK 5.7 billion in free income next year – much more than the Bondevik II government proposed. The spokesman in Bærum is obviously happy with the money that will come. He said to Budstikka: ‘Money does not smell. We take them with pleasure.» Does the representative clearly share the joy expressed by the spokesman in his home municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e629	I understand very well all the rapporteurs who are pleased to receive more money. Something else would be weird. But I am also very pleased that many of the rapporteurs of the Right now choose to use the money to give priority to the school, make sure that the children get more lessons, and make sure that the money is spent in a sensible way. However, the letter sent by the Minister of State to the municipalities – and there is an indication of what might happen next – says that the company tax will now be assessed and whether it will go to the municipalities, and also assess the VAT compensation scheme that has helped municipalities to recover more from the money they have had at their disposal. It can be a short-term pleasure, and I understand that many fears that this can help to speed up wage and price increases, and maybe higher interest rates. But as I said, of course, the rapporteur is looking forward to getting more money, it is their job to work for it. But we don't have to exaggerate the effect either, I guess that's about 1 pst. more, so that a difference as night and day is hardly for anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e638	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e641	This budget means a clear breach of the right turn of policy that has lasted for decades. Our draft budget, which is adopted today – that is all right in itself – signals a change of course in the direction of prioritisation of community, sustainability and solidarity rather than the most tax-free to the richest. The basic principle of the previous government for the economy, well supported by the Progress Party, was that the growth in government budget expenditure should be less than the growth in mainland Norway. In short, people would be richer, and the community would have an ever smaller share of the money. The consequences have been clear. Differences between what people can afford and the quality of what the public community has been able to offer have increased. People aren't stupid. This notices, and people see it. It is first noticed in outpatient centres, music schools and recreational clubs. So notice that there will be fewer teachers and less money to follow up on the individual student. So it's noticed in the care of the elderly, by the fact that built-up nursing homes become standing empty without being put into service. This is the past. The policy that I describe was led by the previous government with the support of the Progress Party. The future lies in today's state budget, a first step in a new direction, where the growth in what, and how much money, the community is to manage, is to be guided by what the priorities we as a community are doing, and not just by what each of us would spend the money for. Because you can't build roads and public transport by giving tax breaks to people. You don't get to run libraries and seniors by giving tax credits to people. You can't build new schools and run labour market measures for people by giving tax breaks. This must be done jointly. All of this is crucial for the development of Norwegian society. It's the same priorities that have made Norway one of the best countries in the world to live in, and the same social vision that has made us a country with one of the world's most competitive economies – by giving us priorities and promises together, because on the left, we have understood that the strong hand of the community is much better than the invisible hand of the right. That's why we double the growth in money we control the state budget in relation to the right-hand side's proposal, because we have ambitions embedded in the Soria Moria Declaration – ambitions shared by the majority of people here in the country, ambitions again to pursue a policy to reduce the differences in this country and to eliminate poverty. We're going to continue the increase in the years that are coming. Our governance rule is more common and more balanced as a replacement for the right-hand side's governance rule, which was less common and more unevenly distributed. We continue the social development and aim more for racial protection and roads throughout the country, and for the development of the railways. Where the right-hand side's ambitions were to starve in the heels and expose the railway to competition, we've begun the process of stepping up towards a modern railway, which is important to bind the country together, necessary for increasing environmentally friendly freight transport, and not least for the thousands who take the train to work and school every single day. That is inconsequential, I must say, that a government in which the Left had the Minister of Transport provided a budget that was as bad on the railways as that of the Bondevik II government. Here's the greatest and the greatest ambition. Here we have to put the pressure on whether we're going to get into the station in the path. We must give priority to the environment. We are going to start a bet on a development of CO2 management that allows us to get gas power plants that do not emit CO2 as soon as possible. This was one of the great ambitions that the Left and Christian People's Party had in the previous government, and one of the big issues that was never carried out, so that we could now be on the way. We're not, but we're doing what we can to take back the lost and get into place. We're starting a change in the tax system in a more fair direction, where those who have the lowest income at work, i.e. those who earn less than NOK 180 000, get an increase in the minimum deduction – that to Left Lars Sponheim. So they get a larger tax relief, and those with the largest dividends have to contribute more to the community. The removal of the tax on dividends on shares was the biggest single reason why the differences increased during the 1990s, and we are dying to be a member of the government that is now introducing this, and introduce it with a reinforced profile in relation to the Bondevik government. We have also let go of one of the things that was a premise for the previous government in terms of tax reform, namely removing the wealth tax. With our approach, next year, there will be fewer pensioners who are going to pay property taxes than the right-hand side added to their draft budget. I said that our governance rule was more common and fairer distribution, and then tax, which I've been talking about, is one of the most important tools for redistributing. But in addition, we're going to build up well-being, and then we're going to provide the most well-being for those who have little from before. So we're going to have cheaper kindergartens, and we're going to do it from 1 January, as opposed to what the rest of the Storting wants to be on. We're standing by the baby hail we gave. We also need to improve child protection and make sure that state child protection gets the money they need to do a good job for the kids who need it. We're going to make sure that hospitals can continue to operate at the level of activity they've had this year. There's a half billion extra to get to that, and that half billion we're going to set up. We want to spend more money on labour market measures, because contrary to what Jan Tore Sanner thinks, we believe that we have had an offensive use of labour market measures, has been absolutely crucial in order to have a low unemployment rate. Providing measures that give people the opportunity to re-train and re-enter the labour market is one of the most fundamental things, making Norway one of the countries in the world with the lowest unemployment over time. Today, unemployment is too high, and we have to do something about it. And then it's us who have to lift the poorest of all. We're going to make sure that they're lifted in a way that's felt. We're going to make sure to bet on housing and housing support. We're going to do something more for those who have drug problems today. There we are running a promise that I think will mean a lot in the long term so that we can manage to achieve our goal of abolishing poverty. And then we start the escalation of the municipal economy that we've all promised. Under the previous government, less money was consistently allocated than was necessary to meet the challenges of becoming more people in this country, and more of us getting older. The right-hand side was the answer: cut in the teachers of our kids, cut in the elderly care of our parents and grandparents, and a huge ideological outsourcing and privatisation, which has failed in many municipalities. Our answer is to choose another way, to choose a better economy for the community over a distorted wealth that increases the differences among people. This is going to mean a lot around the municipalities. When I went to the City Council in Oslo and met the rapporteur and the mayor, I must admit that it was good to be able to get such feedback from the Municipality of Oslo, which did not have any negative feedback on the budget we presented to them. I believe that many representatives have experienced the same thing when they have travelled home to their local governments, to their county councils and told them about the policy of the new government. And I have not just heard from the right-wing rapporteurs, the rapporteurs from the Progress Party, or, for that matter, from the rapporteurs from the Christian People's Party and the Left, that this is a terrible turn of affairs. So we've made the biggest promise on the kindergarten front that has been made. There has never been such a big investment in kindergartens as what is done over this budget. We're getting what's been the only premise in the nursery arrangement, that prices are going down, because it's only by making sure that prices are reduced that we can see how many people there are who actually want a nursery place. This should be understood by all those who have a slight lack of market economy insight. That's why it's important to lower the price. This budget is characterised by community commitment, justice, the fight against poverty and the environment. It is the first step towards a society of more solidarity and thought for future generations. This is the first step, but there'll be more.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e682	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e686	The representative Holmås is right in one thing, that the budget of the new government has a different and different arrangement in its use of money. After all, he demonstrated and explained that it would mean more money for the public sector and that it would be financed by right-hand taxes and charges. But that also means that we don't get to the price reduction that tax and tax relief would give. I can also say that in the answer from the Ministry of Finance, they say that an increase in the food tax, from 11 to 13 p.p., will give a price rise of 0.2 p.p.t. right than if they had not done this sharpening. Then my question is to the representative Holmås: Has SV calculated how much the changed alignment will have to say for the price rise? And what would this look like in relation to the interest rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e694	Fortunately, I am not sitting in the room and raining for myself, although sometimes it may look as if the Progress Party is doing it. We have an entire Ministry of Finance to figure this out now, and the Treasury calculations are in the supplementary bill. They're very clear. They say that with the evolution we're going to have, we're going to have the same evolution that we've had. We want an increase in the price increase that will be at the same level as it was with the previous government. We'll get more people working, and we'll get a higher growth. So with this government we will have a further stable development – a development that will lead to more justice in society. And I'm actually proud of that!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e699	I understand that the representative Holmås is “wonderfully pleased” that he can participate in providing great tax relief to people with high incomes. When the tax reform is introduced, people with a high wage income and – I specify – with large assets that are not in shares receive significant tax relief. Now we've seen so far in this session that the SV's group can sometimes have slightly different opinions than what the government has. I would like to ask the representative, Holmås, about the following: is it that the financial fraction of the SV – perhaps even the entire size group – will continue to stand firm by wanting such a result of the tax system over time? Are they satisfied with the great relief in the tax on high earnings?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e706	No, we're not happy with that. But what we're satisfied with is that we've managed to implement a change in the tax system. Those with the highest income on shares and those with the highest income on wealth are those who contribute the most. It's like a person with 600,000 kroner in salary would get twice as big tax relief with the arrangement that the Right-dominated government put forward. Therefore, we are satisfied that we have managed to give greater tax incentives to those who really make a lot of money and who have the greatest assets, and we are pleased that we have managed to give more tax relief than the previous government has proposed, to those people who earn less than DKK 180,000 – people who have low incomes. This is a first step. We want to spend the rest of our time on continuing to create a fairer tax system, but this was the first step on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e713	SV's most important industrial policy interventions in the election campaign were the depreciation rates on machines. How can the Swedish Government agree to reverse the Bondevik II Government's proposal to increase depreciation rates on machines to 25 pst. ? As far as tax reform is concerned, I would like to refer to SV's earlier, very offensive, statements both before the election campaign and in the election campaign. What change has occurred in SV's view of the tax reform after the party came into government – and as among others. Does the new government reduce the bottom line in relation to the Bondevik II government's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e720	There was a lot to do here, and let me start with the first: the depreciation rate. We think it is a good proposal to increase the depreciation rate, but it is not one of our priorities in this year's budget. One of the reasons we didn't prioritize it is that the Norwegian economy is doing very well now. It's going in the right direction, and we think the Norwegian economy is going to keep going well, especially now that we've got our new government. And then we don't think it's the right thing to do. Then I will take one of the great misunderstandings about this with the tax reform. One of the big assumptions for the right was the abolition of property taxes. It would really be a tax haven for those who have the most money from before, who have the greatest assets. We have said no to that. We have said a dwindling no to tax relief for those who have the greatest wealth, and we have increased the tax for those who have the most and who get the most dividends.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e729	Politics is about delivering, and I like the representative Holmås to be able to drive with five minute tram routes in Oslo – the result of deliveries from the Left in cooperation, both in government and in the City Council of Oslo. So I guess we can bring the joys with us on many points. My question to the representative Holmås is: he represents a government and a party that has believed that the research itself is crucial for how we build the country, how we build society, and how we create new industries, create unborn jobs. One of the first things that happens on the inside after the Bondevik II government has committed a research fund of SEK 75 billion, a security for researchers in the coming years – I don't want to comment on it, because I have been in government – is that you remove DKK 25 billion from that fund. What you're doing is removing the long-termity of Norwegian researchers. Does the representative Holmås think that he is in agreement with SV's line where 70 billion were proposed to research funds next year, when the government cuts 25 billion dollars in the fund and reduces the long-term sustainability of researchers? Is this a handshake for the unborn jobs and future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e738	We stand firm on the line that exists and that was adopted by Stortinget, on the stepping up of both research funds and research. We are increasing the research fund by DKK 14 billion, and we have said clearly that we will continue to invest in research over the coming years, in line with what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. There's a lot of things that create values in this country. This is how we spend a lot on primary education by increasing the allocations to municipalities. We see the education in a comprehensive education cycle and believe that it can be important. It's important! In addition, we are committed to facilitating business, including: through an extension of the net pay scheme. These are several different things that we think may be important to strengthen business in the years to come. And then we stand firm on the stepping up of the research plan that we have set up, which the government parties agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e747	The Socialist Left Party parties, the Labour Party and the Center Party talked a lot about saving jobs and using tools to save businesses in Norway. After the new government has now presented the state budget, it seems to me that the tools of these parties are going to cut business apart. I was told in the statement debate that this budgetary position would show what would be done to contribute to more jobs. I can't really see that you're doing that. 99 pst. by Norwegian enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises, and most of the value creation takes place in these enterprises. The increase of more than DKK 4 billion in the taxes on food, which the Government is about to introduce, is mainly borne by small and medium-sized enterprises. The government has come forward with tools such as: taxes on dividends, property taxes, inheritance taxes, reductions in appropriations for industrial research, and it will do nothing about the depreciation rates on machinery. Does the representative Holmås think that these are tools that contribute to value creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e756	So when it comes to the value-creating debate, we're going to have more jobs and higher growth in Norway next year than we had with the previous government. It should in itself be a good enough proof that our line leads to a better development of business. So to one thing I just have to say, which has been repeated so many times, but which does not make it more correct for that reason, and that is the question of dividend tax. So the fact that we're now introducing dividend taxes is not a tax on business. There is a tax on money taken out on the owner's hand, at the moment the money is taken out. So this does not lead to smaller investments. As a result, investments made, which become initial investments, are not taxed until the day they are taken out and consumed, are made to expensive cabincruise or to designer clothes. So it's one thing that I think it's important to get underlined, but that the Progress Party obviously hasn't understood yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e763	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e767	“It’s going well,” it is called in a well-known singer’s friend, and now the representative Holmås confirmed it a moment ago. We're in a situation, economically, where the arrows that should go up do it, and where the arrows that should go down do just that. More and more people are working, unemployment is falling, Norwegian businesses are doing well, interest rates are low, and we are regularly allowed to live in the best country in the world. Yes, the prospects for the Norwegian economy are bright. But such a situation can also be demanding, demanding because it can now be easy to fall for the temptation to try to satisfy everything and everyone. In its first years, the Bondevik government had to focus on nutrition — of course, it was not as popular in all circles. In particular, it was necessary to ensure that the country would continue to have a business that could withstand competition from outside — not least to ensure that Norwegian jobs were not taxed out of the country. The work produced results: the interest rates went down, the pressure on the Norwegian krona was subdued, and the growth in wages and prices was moving down to the level of our trading partners. It is therefore also possible for the new government, when presenting its addition to the budget, to note the following: ‘Norwegian economy is solid. We expect strong economic growth next year, good growth in employment and a decline in unemployment.’ Yes, the new government has a solid starting point. It is in many ways a covered table that has been consumed, although we would naturally wish that the host company had not been replaced at the last choice. I believe that both the Minister of Finance and the majority in this Chamber agree that the economic basis is therefore good for continued prosperity – especially when we have now put the election campaign behind us. Because we don't come from that rhetoric before the election from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party was a completely different from what is now the current melody from the same parties. ‘We are going away from a policy that gives tax relief to those who have the most from before’ was a sure butcher at any debate meeting in the election campaign. Today, the tax reform has won at least one new follower in the Minister of Finance. Yes, I would say that she, not least in this room, has argued well – yes, in fact convincingly well – for the need for a reform that contributes to the fairer taxation of salary and capital income. And it's better that SV leader Halvorsen in other contexts, the results of the tax reform seem to be a 'herk'. It may be depreciated in the internal medicine account in its own batch. Especially in the election campaign, there was a lot of focus on the tax rates. For the Christian People's Party, it's probably as important to look at what we actually get from tax revenue as at often quite theoretical discussions about who pays what on paper. And the economic policy of the Bondevik government has led to an increase in tax revenue as a result of the fact that more people are at work than ever before. In the long term, it is precisely what helps to ensure the well-being of this country, which applies to the country as a whole, and not least to all its municipalities. In its budget, the Bondevik government has prioritised a strengthened local economy, follow-up to the School's Knowledge promise, a strong commitment to research and innovation, a modern family policy with extended paper commission and cash support and kindergarten space for those who want it. There is an increased commitment to helping the world's poor, a reinforced commitment to poverty at home and a follow-up to the psychiatry plan – in other words, a commitment to building up well-being and facilitating the well-being of new generations. It is, in the view of the Christian People's Party, good governance. The Stoltenberg government went to a covered table, but unfortunately the menu has changed on important points, not least for the children's menu: the government cuts the cash support and breaks the promise from Soria Moria that it should continue until full child care coverage is achieved. The predictability of the economy of young children's families is lost, the family economy is affected by many, and the scheme is surrounded by an uncertainty that will result in more people looking at having to join the kindergarten queue. The government thus achieves two things: firstly, to weaken an established welfare system, and secondly, to ensure that the goal of full child-care coverage is increasingly removed. It is truly a family policy in reverse presented by the Stoltenberg government! And then I have also failed to address the debate on the importance of parents for children, which the Minister of Knowledge has, of course, initiated. In the Christian People's Party, we have also noticed that the Stoltenberg government is proposing a series of cuts in educational institutions such as: to provide more employees in our kindergartens, more employees in our hospitals and more employees in our schools. It's strange when you say that you're betting on the same groups. We've noticed the cuts in health schools, churches and community life and important non-governmental organisations. Unfortunately – and that is perhaps my biggest appeal point, because not so much goes on heads and ears, but more on ideology – it seems that the government Stoltenberg is constantly signaling a turn away from cooperation with civil society through its downsides. I can only hope that some of this can be corrected in the specialist committees, and with the invitation that the chairman of the finance committee gave the Christian People's Party before today, I expect that we will see results when the voting will be dealt with in this Chamber. We need to invest in the future! But research and innovation are probably not the ‘rights of the day’ of the Stoltenberg government. This is surprising – not least in a situation where the government has more money available than ever. The Minister of Industry has found that the Stoltenberg government has removed important tools from the toolbox, even though he comforts the people that some of the research efforts of the Bondevik government are, after all, at stake. Also many pensioners will get an unpleasant surprise as a result of the government change. Through a combination of increased taxes on wealth and an increase in the equivalency of dwellings by a total of 25 pst. many pensioners who have finally paid off the debt on the owner-occupiers will experience a significant tax tightening in line with the Bondevik government's proposal. If we put the Stoltenberg government's draft budget next to the Bondevik government's proposals, the differences may appear relatively small. We are pleased that the tax reform, despite some adjustments, stands by. We are also pleased that the use of oil money remains within a safe level. However, we can understand that the use of the public finances can contribute to an increase in the pressure in the Norwegian economy, with the consequences it will have. But here I think the government's strength test will come first next year in connection with the state budget that will then be presented. Unfortunately, we see a revolution in family policy, and the conditions for volunteering and civil society are weakened. Here, warning lights are flashed through the priorities of the Working Party, SV and the Central Party. It also contrasts with the spirit of cooperation that the Government stressed in its declaration. The budget therefore does not provide a basis for saying that the good words in the declaration debate have been followed up by action. Then the future shows if it's also the state at the next crossroads, seen from our side.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e796	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e799	The party leader in the Christian People's Party has thought highly about what might be the reason why his party experienced a strong decline in elections in the fall. Both he and many others in the Christian People's Party have pointed out that dissatisfaction in the municipalities can be much of the explanation. It has allowed too little resources for welfare tasks, for the elderly, and for children and young people. Traditionally, this has been an important matter for the Christian People's Party. I think well of both the point of view and the strong demands of Christian People's Party representatives here in the house in the 1990s, both from previous uprisings in the financial committee and from the time of the government quarter. My question to the representative Syversen must therefore be: Can we expect the Christian People's Party for years to show greater interest in allowing enough money for the central welfare tasks, more resources than the Christian People's Party have been involved in at the time when Erna Solberg has run the Ministry of Local Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e806	Yes, it is quite right as the representative Sandal describes, that the Christian People's Party in this hall has many times made sure that workers' party governments have granted more to the municipalities than they originally proposed, so here I give Sandal exactly the right. The Christian People's Party has insisted that the municipalities get funds so that they can carry out the important tasks that the representative Sandal was also involved in. When it comes to further bets on the municipalities, I point out that in the period that has passed, the revenues of the municipalities have actually increased by more than NOK 15 billion. It also shows that the government that left a month ago has invested in the municipalities. But we want to do more; it also shows how we're using the 1.2 billion we've got in revenue since the Bondevik government had to go off. We're betting on the municipalities, and we're still going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e813	As you know, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have many things to agree on, including: with regard to family policy. The Christian People's Party would like to appear as a party of the small children's family, especially in terms of freedom of choice. Can the representative answer why Christian People's Party will punish the families of young children who need a car, why Christian People's Party wants Norway to have one of the world's highest car fees, why Christian People's Party will not support the Progress Party and reduce the annual fee and the one-off fee? The same applies to the tax on petrol and tolls – because it is undoubtedly something that particularly affects families with children who need cars in their everyday lives. The same applies to the proposals of the Progress Party for additional interest compensation for the construction and maintenance of schools and churches. Now that the Christian People's Party does not have any government parties to take into account, will the representative consider supporting the proposals of the Progress Party on this at the next crossroads?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e822	It's kind of funny that we're in a town where the Progress Party sits with the Transportation Agency and we have a tolling system. So I am not quite sure whether that concern about car charges is equally present in all parts of the Progress Party. The Advance Party is to be assured that, in our alternative budgets in the future, we will ensure that families of children have a solid economy, so that we build up under the importance of the family in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e829	‘I could never sign a budget with that tax profile’, says the head of the Christian People’s Party, Dagfinn Høybräten, in the evening post on 14 November. The government of which the Christian People's Party was part, as known, presented a budget with a significantly lower distribution profile, e.g. wild persons with an income of more than 1 million. kr on average received a tax bill of NOK 25 000 more with the budget that also bore the signature of the Christian People's Party. Which of the budgetary options prefers the representative Syversen from the distribution profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e836	Yes, to the extent that the representative of Lund Bergo is in doubt as to what budgetary option this representative prefers – I can say that. So it is the Bondevik II Government's proposal for a budget that I prefer. It goes on both the profile you have to secure Norwegian jobs, a tax reform that will work, and there are other elements in the whole system we are presenting, which has a strong social profile. This applies to families with children, where SV has unfortunately sat in the driver’s seat to cut a welfare system. And not least, there are many pensioners that SV now contribute to get a significant tax boost – even though their income is relatively low – with the strong increase SV now dictates for those who have their own housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e841	The representative of the Seven says that the differences appear relatively small between the budget currently submitted and the previous budget. In my hometown, it's worth $10 million. Extra kroner. In Hedmark County, it's worth $28 million. Extra kroner. This means, in practice, that we get money for special education, we get money for more teachers in school, and we get more money for care for the elderly. My former, good colleagues in the Christian People's Party at home – we discussed this in county politics – are very relieved that they are given the opportunity to provide more money for special education. They're satisfied with the twist from tax relief to local well-being. Does the Seven share this vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e848	I would like to see the local government member who is not happy to get the kroner in. At the same time, there is a balance in the economy that neither municipal government representatives can nor – I believe – ignore. For example, for every interest reduction we've had at 1 pst, the municipalities will over time save over 800 million. kr per. percentage unit. It also means a lot to the local economy. We rely on a balance between the economy, both in terms of municipalities and the country as a whole, which ensures that municipalities also have a solid economy to manage in the long term. But we're happy with any krone that comes to the municipalities, provided it doesn't ruin the country's entire economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e855	I record from the financial committee's attitude that the previous cooperation between the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left continues to apply. It is natural, as the representative Hans Olav Syversen himself says, to show loyalty to the budget line for Bondevik II. Nevertheless, I thought a hint of sadness in the main post of Hans Olav Syversen that the Christian People's Party is not part of the new team that is going to make the world's best country an even better country to live in, but so far he is not entirely satisfied with the content of the cooperation of Stoltenberg II. I have two questions anyway: wouldn't it not strictly be OK for the Christian People's Party to be able to participate in the solid promise of the municipal economy to which Stoltenberg II refers? And by reference to the comments of the Christian People's Party in the framework area Work and Social, wouldn't it also be good for the Christian People's Party to be able to participate in an additional escalation to the poor in almost half a billion dollars in addition to Bondevik II?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e863	It must be a sadness that I couldn't quite express correctly. The sadness was enough that the Bondevik II administration actually had to leave the table, so it is possible that the sadness was shifted at some point in my post. In terms of local economy and what we should be involved in and not involved in, the point is that we can't see in isolation in the local economy. For example, when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party cut an important welfare scheme for families with children, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre must also respond to it in relation to the same families with children. So it's a backside of the medal that the three parties have shown in the setting, which unfortunately may not have come well enough for the broad group of the population. So when it comes to measures against the poor, I'm going to refer to how we spend the 1.2 billion more. There the representative of Christoffersen will see that we are also betting on that group. Among other things, we are increasing. the number of places of action for the disabled, which means a great deal also for that group.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e872	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e875	The Norwegian giant has freedom of action. Today, we are dealing with a government budget that differs significantly from what the previous government presented. The red-green option has gained the people's confidence and has provided a budget that is the beginning of a political change in course. This is a policy project to be measured on the following criteria: a fairer distribution of national and international optimism and growth strength across the country, better well-being and a more modern Norway, in particular in the field of transport and communication; We are in a lucky position as opposed to other European countries. Through our enormous natural wealth, a high level of knowledge, a forward-looking law and an active, open and popularly anchored political change, it has been central to the Community values and the construction of the country. The centre party has a vision of the future: different countries that are not themselves enough. This is a society characterized by strong international solidarity, where the objective of 1 pst. of gross domestic product to be provided for assistance is a good trade mark. It is also a characteristic of an active rule of the people, built on popular participation, where the Storting makes the priorities according to Norwegian circumstances. Our wealth is to be used for something more than to increase private consumption. It's getting too small! Important arenas to ensure are the care of clean soil, clean air and clean water, community and security for those who need the security of society. Security of income is the most important. The Red-Green Alliance will maintain the important tradition of post-war Norway, that everyone should be able to live up to their work. One should not need to work twice in Norway to make ends meet. The terms and conditions of employment shall be such that one has a safe income in relation to the Norwegian level of costs and shall apply to all occupations. Our tax system should be based on taxes according to ability. The tax system shall, in addition to providing the State with revenue for the financing of the Community, contribute to justice and promote a forward-looking business. This requires a progressive tax system for personal taxpayers and the continuation of a corporate tax system that takes into account the actual economic and competitive situation of industries. Furthermore, an economic policy shall be pursued to stimulate private ownership and administrative responsibilities. Ownership shall be a good thing for the many, not an exclusive right for the few. The centre party is occupied by the skilled worker in the Sokna farm who makes 250000 kroner a year, the teacher at Nowmedal secondary school and the «Michaeler» who collects his income from land, entrepreneurship and school bus services. For the Centre Party, these are those with normal taxable income in focus. This is the usual thing in everyday Norway. Many of these have high expectations for a fairer tax system, i.e. a tax system that constantly focuses on the individual's income that can be used for private consumption and investment. We must always have an active debate here. It's an important tradition. Everything that lives is changing. There are major changes in Norwegian society. It's important and right, but the pace and what's most important to do about it, we need to have more attention. The main challenge in the future to provide employment security is the profitability of the product-producing industries and of the industries under pressure from underpaid labour from Eastern European companies. The profitability of long-term investments in goods-producing industries with comparative advantage in Norway, for example: fish and wood processing must be strongly strengthened. Furthermore, we will have to maintain a high profile of securing Norwegian pay and working conditions for all work carried out in Norway. This has a clear parallel in what we see internationally in terms of import protection, for example on agricultural products. In this context, workers, food producers and the food industry have common interests, and the red-green alliance has offensive positions towards both. This is to further develop the best in our ‘city and country, hand-in-hand’ tradition. As a country, therefore, we have a great deal of freedom of action to give priority to the future. The government has great ambitions. We have laid the basis for a different course. The strong emphasis on increasing private consumption, after which the previous government worked, has been abandoned. Our freedom of action must now be used to strengthen the strong traditions of Norwegian society, i.e. jealous relations among people, as well as to dampen the forces of centralisation and create new growth and optimism outside cities. We have good opportunities, but it should be good back to carry good days.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e909	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e912	Reportedly as part of the government’s declared fight against poverty, an increase in VAT on food from 11 to 13 p.m. is proposed. The strategy behind the proposal has probably been that people with high income and a large bank account eat more than others and will thus be hit hardest by the Government’s proposal. Poor people, on the other hand, are not likely to be able to afford food, so they will not notice the increase in VAT. Can Lundtigen confirm that the above-mentioned logic underpins the proposal for increased VAT on food or, on the contrary, whether it is the ambition to purchase additional shares and debt securities through the Petroleum Fund that are the cause of the VAT increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e919	In any budget, it is important to take the first priority. There is no doubt about the central party's priority of a low food tax. We were so lucky to get a differentiation of the VAT system that it has now become a broad political uprising. The centre party is very happy that the Progress Party is now a support player for low VAT on food. The centre party wanted to continue a low VAT on food. But in the priority we were faced with, where there were issues of getting the necessary funds to secure the local economy and the welfare tasks that were there, we chose to give priority to it, and thus the food tax in this round had to be as the previous government suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e926	It shall have a good backlog to carry good days — as concluded by the representative Lundteg. And a little bit of the spine we need is that we're not just thinking about today, but also about the future. The greater is the disappointment of what is happening now, when we see the red-green government proposal, where very little attention is paid to what will create future growth in Norwegian business and thus secure the economy for families, businesses and municipalities. We see a tax tightening on business that will create problems. We see cuts in billions of dollars-class, among other things. in the depreciation rates, which are entirely decisive, and we see big cuts in the toolbox otherwise, which through research and development and forward-looking product and market developments will ensure future revenues. Is the representative Lundtigen comfortable with the big cut in the future creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e935	There's probably a good cultural similarity between parts of the Vestland-Right and the Center Party in thinking forward and thinking long-term, and I'm happy with the representative's questions. As I said in my previous line, the government chose to give priority to the most important thing first. What was the main demand of the Norwegian people was to improve our welfare services, which are absolutely fundamental to the proper functioning of business and employment. The representative has a point of not doing anything about the depreciation rates in this round. This is something I expect the government to come back to and ensure that we get depreciation rates where there is a greater correlation between wear and old age, i.e. operating depreciation, and what is tax depreciation. Here's a job to do. And finally, I want to say, the toolbox is going to be fuller with this government than with the previous one. We have a clear policy on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e946	The Stoltenberg government has carried out a tax tightening for the forestry and agricultural industries with a tightening of taxes on wealth, wages and salaries and the protection rate. Tax by ability, forward-looking tax system for business, said the representative Lundtigen. Agriculture receives a tax return of between 50 million. and 100 million. kr next year according to the own investigations carried out by the Norwegian Bondelag. This must be a new central party policy, for in the debate on the tax reform, the then fiscal spokesman in the Senterpartiet, Morten Lund, said, among other things. the centre party wishes to remove the property tax on industrial capital because it is requested by business. This is bad with this year's tax austerity. In addition, it is strange that such a narrowing occurs at a time when the future of agriculture is uncertain. The outcome of WTO negotiations is likely to be demanding for Norwegian agriculture. [[President clubs]] Even with a Central Party Minister of Agriculture, there has been no change of pace in the defence of Norwegian agriculture. [[The President clubs.]] Does the representative, Mr Lundtegen, think that a tightening of the tax on forestry and the agricultural industry is a good signal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e955	I have to ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e958	It's an important point that the replicator makes. What distinguishes Norwegian agriculture is that there are low incomes. When a person has low incomes, a person may have a small debt, and thus most people have a certain wealth. It is therefore important for the Central Party that we have increased the general minimum deductions on the property tax. But in the case of taxes on wealth in general, we need to be aware that the previous government provided for the complete elimination of all taxes on wealth over time. What the former government failed to talk about was that as a substitute for property taxes, over time, there would be an alternative, namely property taxes. And property taxes in relation to agricultural activities are a much more unsocial tax system than a property tax, where, after all, debt interest is deducted. So the priority made here is a better alternative than what the policy of the previous government would bring over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e966	I record that the representative Lundtigen has predictions of what the previous government would do in the future, for which he has no basis. He also warned that the toolbox would be fuller, and he started emptying the toolbox, as his own Minister of Industry has confirmed on TV. We've heard of Lundtigen's social visions, and we'll probably come back to them many times. We'll probably also have a lot of days where the steps go away from his social visions. But one of them, tax by ability, I will take up in this line, and first tax by work. Thus, in the tax system presented by his government, the average income of just under 400,000 kroner — on page 54 of the supplementary proposal — has been increased by tax, while the bladder that has very high wages and very high debts, and therefore not wealth taxes, has a formidable relief. Is it taxes by ability? The second is the combination of dividends and property taxes. Is the property tax by capacity, e.g. in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e973	The central party has its visions in this government. We're giving them an expression. We also hope to hear soon what is left's vision, so that we can discuss the alternatives to each other. Tax on ability is fixed. The income tax to which the representative Sponheim referred here, the level of non-profit-making employee income that is taxed and the general income from employees is less tax-free, is a weakness in this scheme. That's the Center Party the first to admit. But what is a fact is that this government's proposal for income tax is more tax on ability than the left's representative agreed to with his government's arrangement. So to the property tax. The wealth tax is anchored in the tax law of 1884 or the present of 1911 and is an extra tax on a non-workable income over a certain size. It is a principle on which the Central Party wishes to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e982	It is quite clear that the Central Party has extinguished some camels in connection with this budget. I don't know if there's anything the Senter Party sees as a new growth industry when the Minister of Agriculture from the same party has held the WTO negotiations in port. Last year it was such that then the then centenary financier argued for a slight increase in the use of the revenues from the petroleum activity. The Central Party now joins in the budgetary position of formulations that lay down the rules of action for budgetary policy. My question to the representative Lundtägen is therefore: what has changed from last year to this year in relation to the view of the Central Party on this rule of action and what is a sound economic policy, when it was considered last year that a sound economic policy was to be applied a little more than the rule of action, in addition to that provided by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e991	I think the Central Party and the representative of Leirstein agree on one thing, namely that the rule of action and the discussions about it are not an exact science. It's always a question of judgement what's wise about the Norwegian economy and the totality we stand up to. In connection with the Soria Moria declaration, the present government stated that it would follow the financial arrangement on this point to which the former government provided. It was a challenge for the red-green government. We've taken that challenge. We've done the priorities. What's coming is a continuous discussion. There is an ongoing discussion, not least to what extent you are going to take in oil revenues and invest in Norwegian society. There is an important discussion in the future on which I hope that opposition and positioning parties can contribute to a positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e998	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1001	The budgetary framework adopted tonight is essentially a continuation of the 2006 draft government budget proposed by the Co-operation Board. The government will boast of major changes, a new course, etc., but in reality the changes are no larger than they would have been in a somewhat extensive budgetary settlement between the outgoing government and one of the former opposition parties. However, there is reason to ask the question whether SV would have accepted an offer from the outgoing government that entailed exactly the same changes as the current government has made. The answer to that question is after all the sunmarks no. There are so many differences in what SV thought about, for example: tax policy only two to three months ago, and what they apparently believe today must be one of the most remarkable reversals in Norwegian policy. In the past, SV has been raging over the tax reform, the ‘right-wing fiscal policy’, which has proven to be essentially the Left’s tax policy: work and capital treated equally. Now SV's leader and Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen defends the tax reform in a heroic way. The focus on school and education, the change in the course of environmental policy and in foreign policy as announced by the Swedish authorities, is untraceable. There is no doubt that government participation has been a major adult education project for SV and perhaps not least for Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen. Yes, it is in essence strange that the government dares to cut off grants for fellowship and adult education, as steep as the curriculum is now. There is also reason to ask: what has the SV actually achieved in the budget that is adopted here today after all the solar panels? The closest thing to you is to point to a reduced maximum price in kindergartens. Here we find the solidarity of practical policies: give to those who already have, while those who do not have, less money support and general tax incentives – unless you are a member of the LO and receive deductions – and other targeted changes that make student kindergartens more expensive, and differentiated child care payments for parents with low paying capacity fall away in many places. There is reason to quote Jens Stoltenberg from before the change of government: «The government's policy is not just unfair, it is double unfair.» In particular, the tax arrangements for the Government have been the basis for debate following the presentation of the draft budget on 10 November. Not least, the debate has taken place internally in the government parties, and there has been a strong comment from ‘Mor LO’ at Youngstorget. That's not nice. First, what the Government proposes is a policy that is very poor for self-employed people, small businesses and Norwegian businesses in general. I guess it was waiting – you went in and out to make a choice. Although it is obvious that the League of Bonds, as a warm defender of this government, in a letter to the Finance Committee, asks that as much as all the tax austerity coats the Government proposes, be reversed. What is worse is the tax policy on ordinary employees. Where the Cooperative Government proposed significant tax relief for ordinary employee income, the Government reduces the relief in the minimum deduction – the deduction that really works socially equalising in the tax system is cut by DKK 1.25 billion. It is wrong what was said today by the representatives Schjøtt-Pedersen and Holmås, that there is no tax tightening for ordinary income. This is to be found in the Ministry of Finance's own table on page 54 of the supplementary proposal. The average income of almost 400000 kroner is subject to tax increases in relation to the current level of taxation, according to the Government itself. Therefore, the tax profile of people with normal employee income is not more social, as the Government claims. Both in the election campaign and in the time following the accession of the Government, we have heard many times how excellent it will be with a majority government, but at the same time the Government must be humble and listener to the Storting – both its own bigots representatives and the opposition. This budgetary process has clearly shown that, at best, there are truths with certain modifications. After all, the largest opposition to the main features of the proposed budget has come from the government’s own representatives, and the only government has been listening to in the process is the LO, where it has ended up in a wretched compromise that the government parties ask their own government to consider the proposals to remove the exemption of workers from the base and seafarer’s rent supplements in the context of the revised national budget. If there was any willingness to prioritize dietary and rent supplements, then the government and government parties would have prioritised this instead of, for example, to spend 115 million. kr in tax notes to members of the LO and other trade unions, and not due to the outgoing government, as State Secretary Geir Aksensen did on the TV 2 news on 11 November. The left agrees with the old supply gel of the Workers' Party that we need to create in order to share. It is clear, however, that the Labour Party has forgotten it itself. The government's budget is tailored to share without creating. Now it has to be said that a newly appointed government has never had to take over a government budget with an economy that goes so well and has so many opportunities, at least in the short term, as just this year. But it's just when the economy is going well, it has to take long-term action and make long-term investments. Unfortunately, this is totally absent from the text that is being adopted. I think it's dangerous, it's short-sighted, and I hope the government helps fix it on later occasions. The weakness of this draft budget is that it does not answer any very important questions: how are we going to increase the country's income side, and how are we going to renew the income side by creating revenue in new and different ways? The new Minister of Industry has been delighted to start a government period of 50,000 more enterprises as Minister of Industry than it was four years ago. Cosy for him, but also challenging, because it is important that when the Minister of Economic Affairs delivers the stafdom stick to a new government in four years' time, it must be possible to maintain the current well-being level of at least 50,000 enterprises. Is this budget a policy for the success of the Minister of Industry? I haven't been able to see it that far. One reason for this is the many targeted cuts against small and medium-sized enterprises provided by the Government. The obvious question is how to make sure that we have enough people in this country who have money and who will dry and create new jobs with degrees of risk. This budget is definitely not a pat on the shoulders of the people who are going to put their money in new jobs and businesses. That's the opposite. This is a sad day for the many who are going to create values. It's e.g. I am completely incomprehensible to me why the Government removes the grant for unremunerated research efforts under the SkattenFUNN scheme. This is just a grant targeted at start-ups where active owners work free of charge to develop their own product, or to self-employed people who make research efforts to please new and existing enterprises. This is particularly strange given that it is only half a year since the Stortinget decided that the tax FUNN scheme legislation had to be corrected, so that it did not become discriminatory in the form of a company. Many key instruments that have created the positive economic development we are experiencing are being removed today. Targeted tax reliefs have become tax incentives. An offensive commitment to research, development and innovation has been cut in the same areas. A flexible labour market policy is reversed and the old discrimination between employees in public and private activities continues. What should be an active industrial policy is a policy to get rid of instruments. Representatives of government parties have previously criticised the outgoing government for not having sufficient tools in the enterprise policy toolbox. With this draft budget, there has been a real big cleaning in the toolbox. If there is any tool left at all, at best it's old-fashioned. It may not be so strange that Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen, after questions from TV 2, if the government does not remove the tool from the toolbox, answers: 'Yes, in many ways you can say so. But at the same time, we have retained some of the increase proposed by the previous government." There is no doubt that in the short and long term, the budget lines of the Co-operation Government were much better adapted to the challenges of the Norwegian economy than the budget lines that are being given a majority today. The government uses e.g. the whole increased space for action, such as new estimates relating to the population’s debt of DKK 1.2 billion, on increased public expenditure instead of an approach to the rule of action through less use of oil money, as the Cooperation Government did in the context of the revised national budget in 2005, and as the Left, Right and Christian People’s Party now does by spending $250 million. kr less of this session action space. In today's discussion of the state budget, the Left, Right and Christian People's Party are united behind the proposal for the state budget promoted by the Cooperation Government. In addition, these parties promote joint proposals for the use of the enhanced space for action as a result of changes in estimates in the draft budget of the Government of Stoltenberg II. We use this space of action to strengthen the profile in several key areas: education, research, local economy, volunteering and the environment. Our proposals involve both lower spending pressures and reduced use of oil money compared to the government's proposal. At all, it is striking that the Left, Right and Christian People's Party cooperate better on the budget in opposition than the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are able to do in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1039	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1042	It was interesting to hear Sponheim's comments on the government budget, but I would have expected to hear something about Left's policy, as the alternative they're going to present. The left is a traditional party with a rich and proud history that has in many ways separated itself from the Right by, among other things, the Right. have been engaged in joint solutions. For example, we know Left as a school party, often referred to as a school party, and as a care party that takes into account everyone and not just the richest of society. Achieving such objectives requires municipal welfare production. At the same time, the Left has many times marked itself as a party champion of local democracy and local self-government. In this context, I have to ask if the representative of Sponheim can explain to me why the municipal structure he is voting for is better in line with the traditions of the Left than the government of Stoltenberg has presented. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1052	The President will ask that one respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1055	I share Andersen's views on the long and proud history of the Left. The future is also going to be long and proud, I can promise. It's going to be a long-term perspective on politics, where creating values and sharing values – otherwise a good slogan, which seems to be the past of the Workers' Party – is going to be fixed for the Left. For what is absolutely crucial for us is that what we strengthen the welfare society, and hence the municipalities, must be sustainable. This means that the whole of the policies around them must help to strengthen the enterprises that will carry the municipalities. It is not good for a Hedmark municipality or a Buskerud municipality to get more money if it has the consequence that the family businesses, the carrying companies around the municipalities do not survive this policy. Then there will be a very short-term welfare policy, and that is what this is about for the Left – investing in value creation with private, long-term ownership and on that basis strengthening the local economy through taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1060	In the Bondevik II government's proposal for a State budget, it is called, among other things, «framework funding shall be the main model for financing the local government sector». However, the principle of local self-government and responsibilities is diverted in a number of key areas. This applies, inter alia, to: financing of the promise of knowledge, grants to kindergartens and the Roadmap for mental health, where earmarking of funds is the norm. This shows that the left government was part of, understood the meaning of earmarked funds for the purpose it itself thought was particularly important. This is positive. There is a broad political consensus that care for the elderly needs a special boost in the coming years. However, it is up to both the deceased and the new government to try to resolve the transfer of free income to the municipalities. What is the background to the Bondevik II government's view that the challenges of school, kindergarten and mental health can best be solved by ear-catching, while the challenges of care for the elderly can best be solved by means of free income? Will the Left reconsider its view on the designation of funds for the care of the elderly if the challenge in this sector is not addressed by the notified increase in the free revenues of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1070	In this area, there is also a significant difference between the Left and the Advance Party. The difference is this: the left has confidence in most people. We have confidence that most people are able to choose their local politicians who know where the shoe prints and who make priorities. We don't think there's a small political elite here in the house, in the government offices and in the government apparatus that has to sit and control what's going to happen around the communities. That is why we dare to bet on local democracy. That's why we trust that free incomes enable people locally to put money in where they need it most. So we have to use a little ear tag sometimes, as pointed out. Not least when launching new projects, it's important to give a little push. I would like to remind you that the Bondevik II government actually came to Stortinget a few years ago with a comprehensive programme to wind up the designation system, precisely in confidence in local democracy. A good advice for the Progress Party – if it is allowed: If you want to build friendship with others on the non-socialist side, you should probably reconsider your view of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1077	SV had a relatively constructive hold on the Bondevik II administration. We contributed to a number of important environmental issues, especially at the beginning of the period, when the Left had a clear impact on the Bondevik II administration. At the end of the period there was very little left of the environmental profile of the Bondevik II administration, precisely because of that. cooperated most with the Progress Party. It's a little strange, I think, that the representative from the Left is squeezing out the SV for a terrible environmental profile in this budget, when one actually improves the Bondevik II budget in relation to the environmental profile, not only in the area where the Left had the Council of State, as a railway operation, but also in the field of pollution-free gas power plants. I expected that the left had a more constructive hold than this, but I understand that the SV gets to some reality, doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1084	First of all, I can assure the representative of Langeland that any good environmental criticism that the Government had to take will receive support from the Left in this Chamber. I also think he will experience that he has received an environmental opposition that will try to extend further, perhaps to what is SV's real genuine stand in many environmental matters. So you might say that the roles will be changed from the previous period to the present. There are probably plenty of opportunities for the undersigned and the representative of Langeland to meet. I still want to bring forward one important aspect, and that is the formidable promise for public transport that was taken in the previous period, of a net of NOK 2 billion. We've never had any period where that's been done. Creating the impression that it's not done is, after all, not telling the truth. So I think SV is going to wear off in a new government. We see that we have received a competition minister who is opposed to competition, a knowledge minister who is opposed to knowledge, and an environmental protection minister who is now reading basic courses in environmental protection. We can get very festive with SV in government!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1093	It is quite surprising that the Left’s representative Sponheim in his speech asked questions about the proposal that the majority of the population has accepted to adjust the rate of tax on rent supplements for seafarers and riggers, a proposal that makes sense because there is a very unreasonable extra tax on food. And food must also have seafarers and riggers working there – on board the boats or on the rigs. Sponheim was a member of a government that proposed to remove this tax advantage, and I am a little uncertain about what Sponheim really means. Does he agree or does he disagree that the rent supplement for seafarers and riggers should be taxed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1100	No, the left is stuck with the draft budget we presented. But I pointed out in relation to the sitting government that the only suggestion we saw that the Storting had an impact on this budgetary procedure, there were probably some violent hours when the meeting of the Finance Committee was not set, where someone had obviously cremated so much on Youngstorget that there had to be a comment. No changes were made, but a note, an order to the revised national budget to do as the LO says. And my point was simply that it could have given you priority to money from the Government, if it was a policy you wanted. I'm of the opinion that the actual benefits you have are to be taxed no matter where you have to achieve it, and regardless of whether you get it as a kind. Otherwise, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the representative Lars Peder Breck. I think he's the representative of the whole of today's majority grouping in the Storting, who's standing to the left in many areas, not least in terms of family-run businesses. And I liked that he would criticize his own government for taxing family-run businesses in the newspapers, as we saw.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1107	The left claims that they are concerned with local democracy and the municipalities, but the representative Sponheim hardly mentioned the municipalities in his post. With the new government, municipalities will have a big boost – almost SEK 4 billion more than the Left and Sponheim will vote for today. It's not small changes, and it's a new course. The glad tidings come from all over the country, from all parties. Finally, it's fun to be a municipal politician again after years of cutting and cutting. This means that local democracy is flourishing, and that's good. The representative of Sponheim must also agree. Then I will follow up on what Andersen asked for, and he really did not get a proper answer. Why does the representative Sponheim think that the municipalities are worth almost NOK 4 billion less to next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1114	First of all, I would say that for the Left, local democracy is obviously about distributing money, but it's also a lot more than money. It's the very confidence that people can rule locally, rule their own lives, that decisions are taken near where people are, and that everyone has the opportunity to participate in governing their local community. And it's significantly more than just money. Then money is important, and it's much more fun being a local politician with money. I myself have been rapporteur in a powerhouse with a lot of money, and that is very fun. But it can sometimes be a little bit dangerous. My point is that the Left is for more money to the municipalities when it is based on a sustainable global economy that also strengthens the business life of the municipalities. But just moving people out of the small businesses, out of the family businesses and into the municipal house, or, worst of all, increasing wages to the municipal employees and increasing interest rates, there's no good solution for Norwegian communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1119	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1122	I scratch my fingers after answering Sponheim a little, but I think I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1127	Just try!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1134	A more intense defense that the municipalities won't get better advice, than what Lars Sponheim delivered here now in 1 minute, I have good to see. I think it's very bad with how the Left's people around in Municipality-Norway perceive reality. The 2006 draft budget of the majority government has been received with everything from enthusiasm to relief, great tranquillity and amazement – and with a little sense of mind. But very little with indifference. And that's not so nice. For the changes made by the majority government in relation to the Bondevik government budget, there was a clear direction towards a new political direction. We have given a high priority to the community when we withdraw the tax reliefs of the previous government and pay NOK 3.8 billion more to the municipalities than the previous government provided. We have prioritised taking the last stage of the kindergarten reform in this ageing period when we are going to bet an extra SEK 1.3 billion on kindergartens on the road towards the goal that a kindergarten will become a natural offer to all the grandchildren who want it. We have changed labour market policy both through the budget and through changes in the Labour Environment Act. Creating a more human working life that allows most workers to be active to those at retirement age is the most important thing we can do for the creation, welfare and future financing of the welfare state. We have put in place a much fairer distribution policy both through active efforts to combat poverty and by implementing a tax reform that is far more fair than the previous government put forward. There are some in this room today who have also said that this government came to the covered table. There is no reason to blackmail the situation in the Norwegian economy. But if there's one area where you didn't get to the table, it's about the local economy. And that's where the relief and enthusiasm have come first, among all those who are involved in the community, and who know that the most important welfare job and the most important school job is done in the municipalities. 40 pst. of the expenditure of the municipalities is for health, care and social purposes, 30 pst. go to kindergartens, schools and education. When municipalities get better finances, these are the areas that are given priority. In some places the community scheme triggers pure enthusiasm. It is in municipalities that sees that there is now room for new bets, which sees that it is now possible to turn the agenda from endless cuts to discuss new tasks to be solved. But it's not always the way in the municipalities that there's new bets there's room for. After many years of right-wing policies, the municipal economy has fallen in many places. And it was a wild policy from the previous government, which wanted the private consumption of those who had a lot of time before to increase more than public consumption. There is a careful relief that now prevails. Many municipalities see that they do not carry out new and large cuts in school and care that they would otherwise have done, and that is, of course, facilitated. But of course they also see that there is a new price in this budget, there is a community investment that is not a one-off event. This is a red thread in everything we're going to do over four years. The relief that municipalities receive more support to do the school and welfare work is fairly evenly distributed among the parties. It is not one representative from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party or Left from the Municipality of Norway who has called the Ministry of Finance and said: No thanks, keep the money, give it to the tax authorities instead. On the contrary, the relief is as great among Christian People's Party peoples and Left Peoples as it is among the government's own. It is the clear goal of this government to get into port with a reform that we have been fighting for for 30 years, and that is full child care coverage. It's that it's no longer supposed to be that the champagne corks are spread in the families of young children when you finally get a nursery place. We want everyone to have a guarantee before we're done with this ageing period, that the nursery is there when the small pod needs it. And then many voters from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party must also notice the bet we have on kindergartens, which means that many grandchildren with one child will get NOK 6,000 less in expenses next year – and if you have more, it will be more. After all, they would never get that money if Bondevik's government had continued. The red-green government has been met with great calm among financial analysts and in the market. On the first day, some in the opposition tried to talk interest rates up and claim that this budget itself would lead to an increase in interest rates and problems for individuals and businesses. There's no reason to say that. This budget follows the use of oil money by the Bondevik government for 2006. The structural deficit amounts to DKK 65.9 billion, and the budget seems roughly neutral to the economy. At the same time, we say that we should follow the rule of action for how much oil money we will spend in the Norwegian economy in the future. This budget is actively committed to the fight against unemployment. In itself, the changes we are proposing in the budget, from tax relief to community, are about. 4 000 new jobs. It provides, together with a public investment in labour market measures, a net pay scheme, improvement of the rules of leave and improvement of the day-to-day arrangements, a clear new course for an offensive labour market policy. At the same time, we do not forget those who are outside the labour market. We're proposing a bet against poverty of half a billion dollars, we're keeping the one that was there from the Bondevik government at NOK 263 million. That means that many of those who have the least get a significant increase in their purchasing power. The budget has aroused the anger of some groups that had expectations. Sintest has probably been oil workers and seafarers. They had clear expectations of a different tax regime. This has been said by Stortinget to be assessed in the spring. But the reactions and discussions about taxes that may have created the greatest wonder are how it is possible for this government to increase the tax by nearly DKK 3 billion compared to 2005, while high pay is taxed and we are pursuing a fairer distribution policy than both the current year's distribution and what Bondevik had promised for 2006. The Bondevik government had put forward a proposal for tax relief for 2006 where those who have the most in Norway would get in bags and bags. They would get in the bag because taxes on wages would be reduced as part of the tax reform, and they would get in the bag because the wealth tax would be significantly reduced. Now, what we've done is we can take back half of the bag and the whole bag and then we can do that. That's why our tax regime is both more fair than today's system and far more fair than what the previous government proposed for next year. The greatest injustice is eliminated by the tax reform, because the fragility that people with high incomes and free professions could pursue by self-determining the amount of income that would be wage income, and the amount of capital income, is no longer possible. The reason for choosing the last one was that the tax on capital income was only 28 p.m., while on employee income it could be up to 60 p.m. That change has meant that many who have previously escaped paying less than those who paid ordinary taxes on wages cannot now go further. This means that one with income of NOK 2,4 million that could be adjusted in the past will receive NOK 700000 in tax sharpening and one with income of NOK 600 000 approx. $80,000 in tax incentives. I think that the difference is one of the most provocative of ordinary employees who have no opportunity to seal, because they have seen that people who have good incomes have escaped with much less tax. The most important thing this government does in terms of distribution is that we don't reduce property taxes and that we increase the tax on dividends. The 100 richest people in this country have 2 pst. of its income from wages and salaries. They would get a solid gift package from the previous government of 800,000 kroner in tax bills. With us, they're going to get 1 million instead. kr in focus. At the same time, we make the taxes on wealth fairer by increasing the bottom line, for example. becomes fewer pensioners who pay taxes on wealth next year than this year. There have been alleged other things in this debate, and I would like to reassure all pensioners immediately that this is not the case. There will be fewer pensioners paying property taxes next year than this year. Of some in this debate, who would give those who have a lot in Norway, in both bags and bags, there are so many words that it is as if the whole Glass magazine had fallen into their heads. [[The President clubs.]] Fortunately, we have created a new course for distribution in Norway. [[The President clubs.]] We will improve it in the years to come. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1169	The President will also ask the Council of State to respect the speaking time here in the house. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1174	The finance minister said that some financial analysts took this forward to the Government ‘with great calm’. There might be a lot of reasons for that. One reason might be that some of these analysts actually have relatively high incomes and have a relatively large tax reduction. But what I wanted to ask the Minister of Finance about concerns the municipalities, which the Council of State spoke energetically about. I have recorded that they say from the Government that this is part of an escalation plan. The municipalities must therefore operate with long-term budgeting during these days, while this hall and the Stortingen are releasing it. The question then arises: What are the expectations of the local government, when it comes to its long-term budgeting, to the new government in the coming years, and what do you see as a reasonable level in this escalation plan that the new government has said will come?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1181	Yes, it is right that the representative Ulf Leirstein suggests that we have, of course, and I have, of course, started to think about the budget for 2007, for 2008 and for 2009 and what plans we have, and what we are going to implement. But I don't think I'm going to start the eulogy here. I think the government will come back with what priorities are being made for 2007. But I want to give the Progress Party a little bit of an invitation to it, because the Kommune-Norge is very different. What goes with the inner Oslo east, and what goes with Snåsa or other smaller municipalities, requires a tailor's boat to be operated locally. Therefore, it is important that the free revenues increase, and that is the possibility of adaptation that the way in which the Progress Party thinks around the municipalities does not allow. If there were any high-wages who only have income from wages and therefore are not affected by the property tax or tax on shares, I would say that the worst option they have is, unfortunately, this government, because they would get far more tax relief with the previous government and with the arrangement of the Progress Party – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1188	Kristin Halvorsen has never been afraid to use big words, and I think there are many who hear that there are singles in glass after her speech and after the budget that has been presented. In particular, the Minister of Finance is known for using the terms ‘social’, ‘fair’ and ‘welfare’. What's the social about a shop worker getting $200 in tax bills, a consultant tax boost, while the finance minister gets $15,000 in tax relief? The right is concerned that everyone should receive lower taxes, including those with low and normal income. What is it fair to send the entire tax bill to self-employed and family-run businesses? The Prime Minister has previously talked about creating to share. I have the impression that the Minister of Finance is only concerned with sharing, because she is now effectively removing all the instruments that would help create the future growth and well-being of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1193	It's unfortunately, or let's say fortunately, so that the Right has nothing to teach SV or other parties in this government about distribution policy. Because if the Right claims that they can teach us something that would give twice as much to the high income groups in tax laws, plus reducing the wealth tax and giving lower taxes on dividends through another protection rule, yes, then the sum of that is that the Right's proposal compared to those who really have a lot in Norway would give them tripled, while we've made another fair distribution price. It is mainly because, as SV has always been concerned with finding out in terms of distribution policy, you cannot look at wages alone, you have to see how unevenly distributed wealth is. That's the 10 pst. The wealthiest in Norway has almost all the assets, and it is that the 10 pst. the richest in Norway, the highest earners, have 1/3 of their income from wages and salaries, while 2/3 are from capital income. That's why the Right operates such a miserable distribution policy, while the sum of ours is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1198	First, I would like to say that I am quite impressed by the finance minister's awareness of the emotional life of the Christian People's Party's municipal government representatives around the whole country. There is obviously a large amount of work capacity in the Minister of Finance's office. So over to the relationship with someone she said was angry in the budget, and then she might include the Landsorganisation in it. In her previous performance here in the house, she used the word "wonderful" about the country organisation's reaction. Should I believe Heikki Holmås from SV, SV has not heard a word from LO about the budget, and from LO it is said that one has now spoken to «his» representatives in the central government of the Workers' Party. As far as I can see, you don't go on tour with LO's leader either. My question is: does the Minister of Finance see these links between the Workers' Party and the LO as a problem in the exercise of this government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1205	First, I would like to apologize to the local politicians of the Christian People's Party who did not feel any relief from this municipal budget, and would like to invite them to call me tomorrow that day and tell me if it was so that they were not relieved, but on the contrary. Of course, I cannot make myself an expert on the emotional life of the Christian People's Party, either centrally or locally. With regard to the influence of LO and LO on the budget, my view is that LO has had a significant influence on this budget. But it's not my job to escalate any level of conflict with any organizations. On the contrary, I would like to invite both them and the three employee organisations who have understood and supported what we have done in tax, to closer cooperation, because I think it is very important in the future that we have more dialogue and discussion, and that it should be possible for all employee organisations to make proposals and views prior to presenting them to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1212	The most obvious result of SV’s entry into government offices is a reduction in the maximum price in kindergartens – as promised. Those who are lucky enough to have children's playgrounds will be given cheaper places, while those who do not have will be able to take advantage of cuts in cash support, tax incentives and a general distrust through the Minister of Knowledge's view of the excellence of kindergartens. In addition, the Government cuts in support of the Student Children's Courts and conducts a policy that causes differentiated child care payments for parents with low paying abilities to fall away in many places. While the Left prioritizes space for all, the Government prioritizes those who already have space. Then there's also this with consequences of your own policy. This is well confirmed in response to questions from the Left about the consequences of a reduction in the maximum price for increased demand. The answer is that it doesn't know the government, and both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, we've seen, falls away from the promises of kindergarten to everyone by 2007. My question is simple: will the Minister of Finance confirm what she promised directly on TV 2 in the election campaign, namely to quit during 2007 if the promise of kindergarten is not fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1219	Fortunately, I haven't said that. I have said that in 2009, when we've been in government for three years and I'm going to look back, and we haven't been able to get full coverage yet, I'm going to find something else to do, because then we haven't done our job. I still mean that. I have been fighting intensely for full child care coverage in Norway since I was a young 15-year-old at the Twoteen Secondary School and said that it was an offer that all children should have – not because parents are not going to have anything to do with the children, on the contrary, but because I myself, as I grew up and had my own children, experienced kindergarten as the best support for parents, because there were some other adults there who also knew my kids, and who could join in giving some tips on how to be raised and taken care of. We have the ambition to get full child care coverage in Norway. It's about time. Many other countries have made this clear, and they have not had the space for action that we have in the Norwegian economy. There are issues of political will. But of course it's a demanding task. A lot of kindergartens are to be built before we get there, and that's why we have to put ourselves in the harness and work on it every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1226	Although the Minister of Finance is trying to argue against, this is an unsocial budget for many groups. Among other things, there will be: the increase in food income and transport income, and so that low-income families use a proportionately much greater proportion of their wages for food and transport than the high-income families do. That's why this is unsocial. In addition, there are some incomprehensible tax reinforcements for North Sea workers and seafarers. Now it is also said by the Minister of Finance that leaders from the Government Party, from the Government and the Minister of Finance have been appointed to reconsider this. What I want to answer to is: can the Minister of Finance now guarantee seafarers and North Sea workers that this untimely tax consolidation will be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1233	It's nice to hear the Progress Party talk about what's social and social. When you look at the draft budget of the Progress Party, it is not that there is a lack of willingness to spend money, but it is amazing how the results are when, for example, you see. eliminates the entire taxes on wealth. Those who really have the big income, the hundreds richest in Norway, will get $5 million. kr i gift each year of the Advance Party on the basis of this. The proposals that go on raising the food tax, and that we inherited from the previous government, Bondevik II, and that it would cost $1 billion to zero, will have a tiny little meaning, maybe, at the price. But we don't think that's crucial. We believe the most important thing for those who have low incomes is that we are able to get a real welfare upgrade in the municipalities, because that's where the most important offer is. In the case of seafarers and the taxation of North Sea workers, I refer only to the observation by the majority in the position, and that is that it should be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1243	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1246	The Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre went to the elections on the message of strengthening community and well-being rather than new tax concessions. What we are dealing with today is taking the first important steps to achieve this. The government parties will change Norway towards more community where we spend the big money doing the most important tasks, such as ensuring that people have a job to go to, creating a good school for everyone and a decent and good care for the elderly. That job is well done by the government of Stoltenberg. The government had three weeks to change the budget presented by the Bondevik government. Those weeks have been used to take the first and important steps to achieve the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration. Someone had been waiting for more. Yes, someone seems to believe that everything in the government's political platform would be fulfilled these weeks, and has disregarded that the Soria Moria Declaration applies for four years, not four weeks. The changes the government has made to the government budget will be important to many. Most importantly, the strong income promise now being given to the municipalities. Local authorities are being given greater freedom of action to do precisely important tasks in the care of the elderly and in school challenges in a better way. The government's draft budget represents a real growth in the revenue of the local government in 2006 of an estimated DKK 7.5 billion and, compared to the Bondevik II government's proposal, the free revenues are increased by DKK 3.8 billion. Even rapporteurs in the right-wing municipalities acknowledge that this is a good thing. This will lead to better services for the population. This will lead to better care for the elderly and to a better school. The bet on kindergartens will also be noticed for a large number of young children's parents. The maximum price for a full-time kindergarten is reduced to NOK 2 250 per day. month from 1 January. In addition, the Government provides more than 11,000 full-time posts in 2006. This is a significant step towards reaching the Government's goal of full child care coverage, with high quality and low parental pay. The government is running a policy both to create and to share. The government will strengthen the food and district policy instruments. A total increase of 120 million. are distributed among different measures, including municipal labour funds. The Reimbursement Scheme for Seafarers is continued and, from 1 July, the Government proposes to extend the scheme. This will ensure many jobs along the coast. The government strengthens the fight against unemployment and intensifys efforts for inclusion in the labour market. Active labour market policies will be pursued and therefore 217 million will be proposed. more than the Government of Bondevik proposed labour market measures – measures that are an important bridge for the unemployed from leave to return to work. The government will improve the financial benefits for the unemployed by reversing several of the savings measures implemented under the Bondevik II Government. The holiday supplement for recipients of daily allowances is proposed to be reintroduced with effect from 1 July 2006. A serious unfairness for which the Bondevik government stood, by taking the holiday supplement from the unemployed, is corrected by this. The government is also proposing new measures to strengthen the response to poverty in Norway. These measures cover several areas and amount to a total of approximately 500 million. kr. All of these are important steps in the right direction. It is predictable when the opposition criticises the government's policy. That's its role. But it's also just when it comes to criticism by the Government, that the opposition agrees. In the financial position, we are fully demonstrated how it cracks on the civil side. The largest opposition party, the Progress Party, is responsible for an economic policy that everyone should be happy not to adopt, a policy of money-use that would put very many jobs at risk. For those who are unemployed, for those who commute by train, for those who like culture, for those who live by agriculture, for those who are concerned with equality, and not least for those who are poor in developing countries, the budget of the Progress Party is to cry over. The parliamentary leader of the Progress Party has seen himself in the role of civil bridge builder. In the financial position being presented today, it is not possible to see that a single arrow in that building has so far been put down.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1275	The budget lines of the new government include the following: ‘The rules of action provide for some flexibility. In bad times it may be justified to use more than 4 pst. [[...]] I would like to ask the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg as the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party to interpret this. In that case, in view of the Labour Party's eyes, will it be right and sensible in the Norwegian economy to use less oil money than the rule of action would be? So far, since the rule of action was introduced by the previous Stoltenberg government, all governments have used more. Of course, the Progress Party fully agrees, but this government is warning the possibility of using less, and I would like to hear an interpretation of that. Then I want to ask Hill-Marta Solberg about one more thing. After the last year's budgetary agreement, Hill-Marta Solberg stated that it must be embarrassing for the Progress Party to have to accept a VAT increase. Then my question is, how does Hill-Marta Solberg feel about accepting a VAT increase this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1287	To take the last question first, I have noticed that in this debate there are many representatives from the Progress Party who have been deeply concerned that there will be an increase in the food tax of 1 pst. What has puzzled me about this concern is that the Progress Party for the current year actually contributed itself to the general rate of VAT being increased by 1 pst. And no one should be surprised that it contributes to a special wonder when the Progress Party, which has been hammering not least in the Workers' Party every year to be a tax party, in the Storting itself can agree to a VAT increase, as happened last year. No one had thought that the Progress Party would use its power to increase the levy when they had influence over the budget, not least, and above all, in the light of their own previous rhetoric. That's also the background for me wondering how the Progress Party was last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1294	The Labour Party election campaign contained two main elements: 1) proposals by a number of workers’ party representatives to increase public expenditure in a wide range of areas; 2) denial and denial by Hill-Marta Solberg of any claim that the Workers’ Party would increase tax beyond 2004 levels. In the evening post on 23 August, the representative of the latter contributed by categorically rejecting the fact that the Workers' Party would reintroduce house taxes. Yes, she guaranteed that it would not happen. In the current budget of the Stoltenberg Government, the equation value for dwellings is increased by a record 25 pst. This affects common people with common dwellings. This is a sneaking-in of house taxes. Will the Workers' Party continue this escalation of taxes on housing, as they have been accustomed to when they have been in government? When Hill-Marta Solberg guaranteed that there would be no new house tax, isn't this proposal for a massive increase in the value of the equation a breach of this guarantee? Because it's not just the hundred richest people in this country who have a place to live, is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1303	It is interesting that the representatives of the Right closely follow up on what is being said by the Workers' Party. It's just nice, that, and we're going to have to answer for ourselves more than that. But I think the indications from the Right that have emerged now twice in the debate today, that the new government, including the Workers' Party, is doing something other than what the Workers' Party promised before the election, on housing taxes, does not hold. Earlier today, the representative, Sanner, has suggested that half-truths as the budget appears today. The Workers' Party has guaranteed, by signing, that we did not intend to propose reintroducing the house tax that had been abolished. We're standing by. It is also fully in line with the budget submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1310	The Christian People's Party has always raised the fact that voluntary teams and organisations carry out an invaluablely large and irreplaceable social effort. In our reign, therefore, we have been involved in introducing the so-called gift deduction. In our draft budget, the ceiling for the gift deduction is proposed at NOK 15 000 per year. years. The grant deduction has been developed to be one of the most important sources of funding for voluntary organisations, and any signal towards weakening the grant deduction's position is thus a major cause of concern. In the Soria Moria Declaration, it is said that there is a good deal about new voluntary policies. In the past, the Workers' Party has voiced negatively about the gift deduction. The Government's budget proposal for the increase proposed by the Cooperation Government is dropped. My question is, is it the Workers' Party's aim to remove the gift-deduction scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1317	When the representative Sørfonn in his line came into the gift voucher, I thought it would be a nice line where the Christian People's Party would be very pleased that the new government is actually continuing the system with this deduction. Earlier in today's change of words, I have registered that representatives of the Christian People's Party perceive the submitted budget to be adopted today as attacking important issues of the Christian People's Party. In this case, we have extended a hand on the issue of the right of deduction for gifts, for a matter that is important for the Christian People's Party has been taken care of. It is apparent from the Soria Moria declaration that the scheme will continue, and that is also what is included in the 2006 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1324	Hill-Marta Solberg began his speech by saying that she wanted to strengthen communion and well-being, and this was the first step. The left, on the other hand, went to the election on more to those who need it the most. The working party has a long tradition of giving priority to those who are within their priority communities. Kindergarten policy is quite similar: Kindergarten is a good one, and the Workers' Party wants to give priority to those within it. Oslo has an income-differentiated payment. This means, with their reform here now, that a family of young children with 150 000 kroner of income will double their child care expenses, while families with 655000 DKK of income will receive 30 000 kroner of relief. It's okay that you want to prioritize the rich. But why not give priority to getting more people into this system by building more places, rather than prioritizing this Reichsman reform so quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1336	I want to start by saying that I'm in a phase of life where I know a lot of small children's families. I think they would have felt a little bad by hearing the representative from the Left call the reduction in the parental payment to the kindergarten for a 'rich man reform'. I think that's a dry piece, and if it's indicative of how the Left Party deals with parental payment in the kindergarten, it's very discouraging to note. I also have to be allowed to point out that the Left obviously has not been fully involved in the supplement to the government budget that has been submitted, because here both reduced parental pay and increased deployment of places are given priority. It's going to be possible to do both of these things at the same time, and that's exactly what the new government is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1349	I asked the Labour Party parliamentary leader two questions in my previous line, and she answered none of them. That is why I want to repeat both questions now: is it the case that the Labour Party is now warning of a change in the use of oil money towards an even less use of oil money, so that we can read both from the budget and from the budgetary position? And question two: how can Hill-Marta Solberg this year think that it's perfectly okay to increase VAT on both food and transport, when it was characterised as embarrassing when this happened last year? It was the two questions I asked, and then I am interested to hear what the Workers' Party thinks about this, not get a long lesson about what Hill-Marta Solberg thinks that the Progress Party believes about the same questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1356	As regards the question of VAT, I believe it was answered instead. I can only add that I have noticed that while the Progress Party last year did not fit in to reduce the increase in the general VAT by 1 pst, they have been able to reduce it this year in terms of food VAT. I can see that. I would like to say that it is especially when the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party asks for interpretation of the rule of action. The party of progress is the party here on the Stortinget which has almost characterized this rule as customs and clothing, which has never dealt with it, and which believes it does not work at all. I would like to point out that the way in which the rule of action has been practised since it was introduced has worked. It has worked that way that we have had a steady development in the Norwegian economy. We haven't experienced dramatic fluctuations, which would have been the case if you hadn't had a governance rule on how to phase oil revenues into the Norwegian economy. The fact that this rule, as designed, also contains the necessary flexibility to adapt to the economic cycle, is a great advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1365	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1368	The progress party wants a lower, simpler and more conservative tax system than what we have today. That's what we've come up with when we've worked out our alternative budget. For us, not less taxes and taxes are a goal in themselves, but it is an important tool to increase value creation and also to increase well-being. In our alternative budget, we have a total tax bill of approximately NOK 29 billion. We have also reduced the dividends by approx. $0.5 billion. We have financed this by the fact that the net expenditure in the state budget is 12 billion kroner lower, and we have a reduced surplus on the state budget of 17.5 billion kroner. So we have a little bit bigger so-called oil money usage than the rest of the Stortinget. That is what we believe to be both defensive and sensible. We have a different arrangement of our use of money than the rest of the Stortinget. When a user spends money at tax and tax expense, it will have a completely different impact on the economy, a completely different effect on the rise in prices than if one spends the same money and blows them into the public sector. We also have some investments. Together, this will stimulate added value, and it's very important for us. We have both corporate taxes, which will make it more attractive to start new businesses and extend the activities of Norway, and personal taxes, which will make it more profitable to work, and which will help more people want to work more. We also have investments in infrastructure that allow one to get rid of some of the bottlenecks in the economy. Together, this will contribute to added value. We're a little pleased with the government's tax profile. We think he's unsocial. One has given tax credits to some with high wage incomes, but one has tax incentives for the large groups. Both the creators of values in the country and ordinary people have received significant tax austerity. The top taxes proposed by the Bondevik II government, we're going to end up with, but we're not happy with the taxes given at the bottom, corks from the government that's gone off, or from the new one. Therefore, the Advance Party proposes that the personal allowance be increased from 34 200 kroner to 38 000 kroner in Class I and from 68 400 kroner to 76 000 kroner in Class II. The Progress Party also proposes that the maximum deduction be increased to NOK 68 000. This will result in a tax relief of over NOK 2000 at the bottom, and of course the lowest incomes will be the most marked. In addition, we increase the credit card limit to NOK 40,000. It gives a special tax relief to those with very low incomes, for example. students. So we have tax relief for those who need it the most. Of course, we are against the tax increases on the necessary good in the budget. This will turn out very unsocial. For example, the increase in the food tax and the transport tax will hit them with the lowest income the hardest. We have a reduction in petrol taxes. We believe that both the petrol tax and the diesel tax are far too high in Norway, which is an oil exporting country. We want a petrol pump price of NOK 8, for diesel a little bit lower. Of course, this is a tax haven that doesn't mean that much to Try Hegnar or Kjell Inge Smoke, but for very common families with children and for pensioners, this will of course be of great importance. We reduce the electricity charge, which also benefits those with low incomes the most. We also have the reversal of some unintelligible tax yokes. We're going against a tax surcharge on vans. The sharpening of the home PC system, where one has seen a ceiling of NOK 10 000, we're also against it. We would estimate a ceiling of NOK 30,000. We thought the proposal for a roof of NOK 10,000 was very unparalleled. We're in favour of the tax exemption for the benefit of the seafarer's base workers and hire allowances. And we think that if the government party really wants this to be reversed in the revision, they should support the Progress Party's proposal that this should not be introduced as of 1 January at all. Then you will remove the uncertainty that will prevail until revised, and one will get rid of this untimely tax sharpening. Nor do we want to tighten up when it comes to the employer's coverage of workwear and taxes on the employer's coverage of treatment insurance and sickness costs. It is a system that has worked well, and we cannot understand that a system that has worked well and that has also contributed to the faster return of workers to work is to be removed. We are also opposed to the strengthening of Svalbard's taxes. It is incomprehensible and completely contrary to what we have worked for, that we should have activity on Svalbard. We also have significant taxes on goods placed on the market, especially alcoholic beverages. Border trade is a major problem today, accounting for DKK 10 billion in commercial leakage every year. There is a lot to say for Norwegian jobs. When it comes to car-related taxes, as well as petrol and diesel, we've also done a lot of cuts. The annual fee has been reduced by 300 kroner, the entry fee has been reduced by 10 p.m., and we also propose to increase the parcel to 6000 kroner. As a result, the environmental benefits of traffic and the most dangerous cars will be removed. We want to expand the BSU to NOK 20 000 per year. years and asks the Minister of Finance to also consider raising the ceiling to NOK 150 000. When it comes to the document fee, the so-called transfer tax, there are a lot of people who have been busy about, but who get to do something about it. We're proposing to reduce it by 10 pst. Special deductions for large costs of disease were tightened up last year. As a result, the stencil rule was removed. This has caused problems, for example: for diabetics, who are difficult to document their expenditure. We therefore propose that the template rule be reintroduced. We also propose that the maximum limits for gifts to voluntary organisations be increased from NOK 12 000 to NOK 18 000. When it relates to the dividend tax, we still mean the same thing as we meant when the tax message was treated. The screening rules are too poor, and our fear that the dividend tax can be imposed without removing the wealth tax is proving to be well-founded. We accept the dividend tax with some improvements in our alternative budget, but we propose to remove the entire wealth tax from 1 January 2006. When it comes to inheritance fees, we support the improvements proposed by Bondevik II. In the context of the revised national budget, the Stortinget provided some guidance for the transitional rules on the laws of the Member States. We can't see that being followed up, and we think we need to make further improvements before we can go into those transitional arrangements. Internationally competitive framework conditions are important if we are to have jobs in this sector in the future as well. When it comes to depreciation rates for machines, we support an increase from 20 to 25 pst. We think that's important. We also want to keep the salary deduction for individuals on 20 pst. It is important to create new jobs in Norway. We want to get hold of the restaurant house. We no longer want the distinction between ta-med food and that one in the place. So we want an 11 pst. bet regardless of whether a hamburger is in on McDonald's, or going out and there. It is positive for tourism, and it will help to avoid as much control as we have with this today. The special deduction for age and disability is going to increase by another 1000 kroner. We thought it was right to give it easy to the retirement list. Well, there were some of the improvements proposed by the Progress Party in its alternative budget. This shows that our alternative budget has a much more social tax profile than the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1417	The Progress Party strongly claims that they have submitted a draft budget to most people. In normal language usage, the proposal has a good social profile. But it's definitely not like that. I refer to what the Progress Party does in tax policy. In fact, the Progress Party will provide each of the hundreds of the richest people in this country with a tax haven of about a thousand. Five million. kr on average. So it's the richest that's the big winners of the Progress Party. Is the representative of Hagesetter happy that the Progress Party is saying something and is doing something else? The party is talking about people most, but it's filling up the accounts of the richest in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1422	The Progress Party has a social profile in the budget. We have the most social profile. It's not like the representative Sandal says that it's the richest that gets these tax credits. One can ask the question: How much tax does Norway’s richest man pay to the Norwegian Treasury? So he doesn't pay anything because he's not in Norway. Capital flows across borders, and not providing internationally competitive framework conditions for those who create values in this country will result in smaller value creation in Norway and job relocations out of the country. This is the concern of the Progress Party, and therefore we are presenting a budget aimed at increasing value creation and more jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1427	No one from the Progress Party has talked so far about the pressure on interest rates. No one from the Progress Party has so far mentioned the rule of action, other than something that should be removed, and something that one looks at with scepticism. There would have been a great deal of understanding that that scepticism had been present, if you had used an estimated NOK 1-2 billion extra. But when the pressure on interest rates is high today, what will the pressure on interest rates be with the policies of the Progress Party, with both a foreign budget and further use of money, resulting in well over $20 billion in extra government expenditure? The progress party on the one hand wants a petrol price flat of 8 kroner, for diesel something lower, as we hear the representative Hagesetter. My question is: what does the representative Hagesetter want the interest rate to be? Do you have a similar bombastic view of it? Why does the Progress Party, through its alternative state budget, not want to facilitate the minimum of the Norwegian interest rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1434	I can reassure the representative Gitmark that the Progress Party wants to keep a low interest rate. It will also be the result of our alternative state budget. We have an open economy. We also have a different device on the use of money than the other parties in Stortinget have. So when you spend $1 billion on tax breaks, it's going to have a whole different effect on the economy, even in terms of price increases, than if you use them in the public sector. That is why we have also cut in the public sector. I also have to say that for several years now we have had a very high loan demand – 12-13 pst. – and this has meant that Norwegian households have increased debt by over DKK 100 billion per year. So there was no pressure. That's because we have an open economy. There will be no pressure in the Norwegian economy. That is why we are sure that our budget will not do either.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1443	I have noticed that there are some sentences and phrases that go back when the Progress Party has the word here today. These include: phrase: we can afford to escape. It often comes in context where it is evident that the Progress Party does not intend to give priority to what they think is most important. Another phrase comes in context where one tries to produce its own alternative budget as a budget with a clear social profile – and clearly the best social profile. So it's part of this so-called social profile that one suggests cutting off international aid with $9 billion. In the setting, members from the Progress Party say ‘that the system of coercive contributions to State aid through taxation contributes to a weakening of the individual’s personal sense of responsibility and desire’. Then I wonder: The representative, Mr. Hagesett, says that the amount that was collected, for example. after the tsunami disaster, or the amounts collected at each annual TV action, is there any indication that the Norwegians have low yields, because the Norwegian state actually contributed to the development of other places in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1456	Of course, the party of progress does not object to people giving their own wallet to the measures – disaster or what they are – in the rest of the world that they find preferable. We also have nothing against contributing to disaster relief. But when it comes to the forced u-help, we think that help doesn't benefit them who need it. Rather, we want to facilitate better trade opportunities for these countries. We think that would be the best way to do it for them to come on top, and that they should also be able to develop their well-being in those countries. We think we've seen too many examples of the forced unhelp going to corrupt heads of state, and it's gone to people who don't really need this help.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1461	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1464	The Minister of Finance said at the presentation of the budget that the Norwegian economy is sound. Strong economic growth, employment growth and the decline in unemployment are expected. It was a good description of the results of the policy of the previous government. What's amazing then is that you don't want to be in such a good situation by using the tools that brought us there, that's to continue a policy that stimulates increased value creation. Instead, prescriptions for unknown medicine and for diseases the nation does not suffer from. There is an increase in taxes where tax reductions have shown that they work. You reduce growth, even though increasing growth is one of the pillars of your progress. The use of funds over public budgets is increased instead of increasing and stimulating the private value-creating sector. Efforts in research, innovation and innovation are being reduced – a crucial tool for all our unborn businesses. Good instruments are not used, they are replaced by new ones — yes, they are not new, they are the reverse of those who have worked. It is difficult to imagine how increased taxes on Norwegian ownership should promote value creation rather than relief in ownership taxes. It is difficult to understand why stopping all modernisation and changing public activities is a good tool for improving efficiency in the public sector. When we hear the Minister of Finance speak today, for ten minutes, without mentioning value creation, and without mentioning Norwegian business, we can talk about the fact that the toolbox is really empty. It is possible that there is a slight rattle in the lid. That's now we had the opportunity to start with the good starting point we had. It's not being used. The harvest's tax debate has been very revealing to the government parties. After the red-greens in the tax reform concluded that reductions in top tax rates were not desirable, and after using this demagogically in a long election campaign, the Prime Minister said a week ago that he had always meant the opposite. So he's always thought that the top tax on high wages had to be reduced. He just didn't tell anyone, not his financial fraction, forgot to tell LO – nor the voters. But now the election is over, it's time to deal with reality. This means that the red-green government is now introducing, with SV at the head, the tax reform in this area and providing significant tax relief to the high employee income that does not have a share tax. This is an admirable reversal of past opinions and rhetoric. The question you can ask is how long this will last. Both the representative Holmås and the representative Lundtegen have today replied that perhaps not so long. The representative Holmås says we have to increase justice, so we have to have more taxes. The representative, Lundtigen, says that there are weaknesses in the arrangement. The most serious thing is not to implement the tax reform by providing relief in the taxes on wealth, but to go the other way. You think you can take the inside swings of the rich by increasing the wealth tax. But what is being carried on is the small businesses of the country, the entrepreneurs, the starters, the private owners of this country. And when you're going to stand out as the foremost exponents to want to distribute more and more, as we've heard many of the speakers of the position say today, it's a paradox that you're not more concerned with facilitating relationships for those who are going to create the values, and as the Minister of Finance doesn't mention at all. But this is the eternal dilemma of the left-hand side – the unwillingness on the one hand to end some of the working capital with those who have risked their savings, their homes, homes, and most of their working resources in order to get into a profitable business, and on the other hand, the underlying certainty that you always have on the left-hand side, that reality is so that we need more than ever a private business that can create the values that you have today praised the distribution of, even if you don't want to talk about it. A little reality might have come in already. The debate on the top tax and the changes that have been made there shows that. But there is reason to doubt whether reality is going to intrude quickly enough to allow us to maintain the value creation necessary for the more than unusually expansive distribution and promise policy of the majority parties in Soria Moria, which is now to be put into practice by the government agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1481	This is actually a pretty boring financial debate, and that's of course because the distance between the Bondevik government and the Stoltenberg government budget is really very small. Most of what we end up adopting here tonight is actually the Bondevik government budget. That's why the Right Constant and Total Black Painting are also standing in a very strange light. But it's been going on for a while. Right-wing slaughter of the new government actually began before the new government came out at the Castle Square. I, and the Progress Party, have always thought that a certain amount of fuss is okay with a change of government. There's a lot of expectations, there's been a lot of promises, and it's time to show whether this government gets it done. There's been a little bit of a rush in the initial phase, well, notice, but that might be the case for all the new governments. That the head of the financial committee, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, had a powerful attack on the Progress Party, was expected. After all, we represent the only clear alternative to the Government. It is no secret that the Progress Party in its alternative state budget follows up its party programme. We've made a choice on that. Throughout the election campaign, in the elections after the elections, the Progress Party spoke about the need to spend some more oil money. We talked about welfare, we talked about tax relief, we talked about cuts in public expenditure, we talked about freedom of choice and we talked about competition, and that's what we are proposing in our alternative budget. Keeping promises is possibly unknown to the Workers' Party. But the Progress Party keeps what we promise. We say the same thing after the election as we said before the election. More surprising and disappointing is the fact that the Right also uses this financial debate to attack the Progress Party. Jan Tore Sanner said he was disappointed that the Progress Party had chosen a populist line and not approached the bourgeois parties. Throughout the last period, throughout the campaign and throughout the post-election period, the Right has stuck to its absolute plate, namely the total arrogance, the Right-Alene-White attitude, and many of them also seem to have become interest experts during this debate. I am committed to building a basis for non-social cooperation that could provide a basis for a new government in 2009. But there is mutual respect between the parties to be included in such an alliance. Such cooperation shall not take place, shall not occur by cancelling or discarding the programme of the Party to the Right. We have respect for the voters, and 22 pst. by which they chose the Progress Party. They chose the Progress Party, not because they don't know better, which one can get the impression when one listens to part of the speakers in this debate, but because they agreed with us, because they knew what we were going to vote on, because they knew that we wanted to spend more oil money, because they knew that we would keep what we promised. Cooperation does not happen by the fact that all parties on the non-socialist side end up as right-wing people. Cooperation is achieved by mutual respect for one another, mutual respect for different views, different party programmes, different voters. It's going to be based on the election result, because we live in a democracy. It is based on negotiations between parties seeking to cooperate and, in particular, on interpersonal relations. It's dimensions that have so far been completely absent in the Right-Retorium when they've talked about possible cooperation on the non-socialist side, and that's a shame. I have seen myself incessantly tired of the arrogance that the Right now exercises. It is a pity because it is necessary to take this general settlement from this pulpit in order to achieve non-socialist cooperation in 2009, but it must then be based on mutual respect and not on the cancellation of the party program of the largest opposition party. The Labour Party's attempt to characterise the Progress Party's alternative budget with words such as chaos, interest rate increase, pressure on the crown – one after the other – is black paint. That's exactly the same thing that the Labour Party and the other government parties have criticized Right to do to themselves, namely blackpaint a budget that the Government is behind. It's not like 22 pst. by the voters in this country are stupid. It is not that they have voted in the Progress Party because they do not know better. They have voted in favour of the Progress Party because they want us to press for the greatest possible impact on our policies. I can guarantee that it will be the Advance Party to do – whether or not the Right likes it, whether or not the Workers' Party likes it. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1500	The President asks the representatives to stick to the speaking time. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1505	I will begin by commending the representative, Siv Jensen, the parliamentary leader of the largest opposition party, for the generosity she has shown to the new government. I think it's in my place to express that. Otherwise, I have to say that the post from the representative, Siv Jensen, was almost about to make my line redundant, but I still choose to take it. The representative, Siv Jensen, has in many ways pointed out himself as a possible civil bridge builder. Now I'm not going to say that I've seen all kinds of bridge builders, but the post we just heard was not particularly marked by bridge construction. And my question is: does the representative Siv Jensen agree that the opposition today appears to be completely split?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1514	The opposition to the Storting consists of four lots — not of one lot — in opposition to the sitting three-party government. That's the way it was in the entire previous magnification period. It was only at the end of the previous ageing period that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre began to show the ability to cooperate and reconcile policy areas on which they were at a distance from each other earlier in the ageing period. It is not difficult to find many examples of this: in foreign policy, in security policy, in defence policy, in child care policy, in monetary policy – the list is long, it is. I do not think it is necessary for the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party to try to explain it – that cooperation developed over time. That is, of course, how it has to be also for other alternatives that may need to grow. But that doesn't mean that any of the parties involved in cooperative constellations cancel their lot programmes for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1523	It almost seems that the representative Siv Jensen has received too little attention lately, when she chooses to use her post to attack the Right in this way. We note that she believes that we are black-painting the government's plans for the Norwegian economy in relation to the business environment and the price of the crown and the level of interest. I understand that, because the Progress Party's own arrangement will have a significantly more expansive impact on the Norwegian economy than what the Stoltenberg government's proposal means. But the point here is that the Right is not alone in this concern. This is a concern that industry crystal clearly expresses in its comments on the arrangements of the Stoltenberg II government. And here's the point that populism and surrender policy have a major impact on competitive business. I understand that the Progress Party does not want interest to rise, and that they have their own alternative economic theories. But my question to the Progress Party is whether they are not at all interested in the signals that industry is giving to the kind of over-the-counter policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1532	What I did was answer the right hand attack. When you call in the woods, you tend to get answers – and it got Right. I would like to remind you that when one characterises the policy of the Progress Party as a policy of surrender, then later all the parties in this Chamber as if they are related to the rule of action. So they've broken it every year since it was introduced. The previous government broke the rule of action by DKK 100 billion in four years. It was totally responsible, because it was a right-wing government that proposed it. Then it was okay, no reactions, no interest rate increase, no problems – completely responsible. Where is the difference of DKK 100 billion and NOK 120 billion? Is that the difference between whether we're going to reach nirvana, or Ragnarok? I can't understand it, especially at a time when both business and people are most asking for a slightly more sensible use of our common wealth, which is currently invested in foreign businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1541	I hear that the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party is talking about bruteness, and we appreciate that very much in the Swedish Parliament. We're also going to try to be bold towards the Progress Party and other parties here in the Chamber, I can promise. But then to my line. We know that in the election campaign the Advance Party was very marked in relation to, among other things. to have actions around the toll stations, including: paid the tolls – or parts of the tolls – for the drivers. And that made you get a lot of attention. In the budget setting it says that the Progress Party believes that removing the toll stations and the collection will have no significance for the Norwegian economy. We know that there are 13 billion kroner that it will in some way give in more purchasing power to Norwegian drivers. If it doesn't matter to the Norwegian economy, it surprises SV. Where's the money going to be? My question to Siv Jensen: Is she really saying that 13 billion kroner in tax bills for the drivers doesn't matter to the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1552	I think I'm going to answer that question by asking the representative Ryan. A few years ago, the majority in this Chamber decided to cancel the debt of the Gardermoban. This was done because you did not want the ticket prices at the Gardermobanen to go up. And then they used roughly the equivalent number of billions of dollars, and it didn't have any impact on the economy. Of course, it didn't, because the government at that time thought it was very responsible and very sensible to use the corresponding amount of oil billions to cancel that debt. When we now try to do the same with reconstructed toll stations, which have come to the top of already significant car charges paid by the Norwegian people each year – which in addition have to pay additional charges to finance road construction in the country – then it is suddenly serious. I don't think the representative Ryan understands that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1562	As a new representative of big business, it has been very exciting and polite to follow the progress of the Progress Party after the party has been given new parliamentary leadership. The question I have asked myself is: will a change of rent for political reorientation? Will it rent to increase cooperation on the civil side, as there was a signal before the elections? As the representative Bjørg Tørresdal pointed out earlier in the debate today, many hoped for a new orientation, for example. in the aid policy, after we saw a look-up in the VG earlier this year – a gripping report on Siv Jensen’s visit to Uganda, where she announced a change of assistance. That's how we could deal with areas like public transport, agriculture, culture, the environment, etc. We could also have included earmarks, municipalities, etc. My question to Siv Jensen is the following: What is it in the Progress Party's alternative budget that signals a change of course, and which is an invitation to the Left to increase cooperation in the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1576	The answer to that is nothing. There is nothing in the alternative budget of the Progress Party that represents a new course – simply because the Group of the Advance Party has been elected to the Progress Party programme, and we keep what we promise. It is not the case in the Progress Party that it always changes the party programme as it has to be appropriate. Our program applies, and that's what we've become the second largest party in the country. That's of course also why we intend to implement it, make it visible, in our alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1581	The parliamentary leader of the Progress Party attaches the utmost importance to the good social face of the Progress Party. The party is the party for most people, as it is called. For a great many of us, the development of people's incomes is most important to see to what extent a prioritized social relationship. There are two sentences in the setting that I want to develop in that context. On page 22, it says: «The long-term objective of the party is a tax system with much lower, flat and equal taxation of labour and capital income.» On page 35, it says: «Acts regulating the labour market are amended so that wages are more determined individually or at the workplace.» [[...]] International and historical experience suggests that this leads to greater differences in disposable income between people who have full-time work. Why is it important for the Progress Party to facilitate an income development that leads to greater income differences among most people, cf. The two quotes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1596	I actually don't think I understood the question. It depends on which eyes you read the comments of the Progress Party. When we're in favour of a lower and flat tax, of course, it's because it's both about letting people keep as much of the income they earn as possible, and because as politicians, we have a responsibility for how we manage people's tax money. Our complex system involves such a time-consuming and labour-intensive tax collection that, on the way from the people's wallet and into the state treasury, significant amounts of money disappear, which, by means of a flat tax system, could be released to improve well-being, to increase the minimum pension, to strengthen the basic amount of all pensioners of the country, to pay off hospital debts – to mention some of the other proposals contained in the Progress Party's alternative government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1601	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1604	The voters gave a clear message on 12 September: a new political course will be held in this country. The Community shall be strengthened. Resources should be used primarily for the largest tasks. There should be a decent care for those who need it. Children shall evolve, whether they are in kindergarten or in school. During the Bondevik II government, developments in several areas were in the wrong direction. The differences in society grew. Welfare services were built or removed in many municipalities. This particularly affects the elderly and children under training. Speakers called for caution, but Minister of State Solberg replied with more depression, competitive exposure and privatisation. The medicine printed by the Bondevik government would not use the majority of the selections. In the election campaign, some appealed to the wallet to people, others appealed to the heart. The majority of the people wanted more and better well-being, no more tax havens. The people wanted a new political course. We're going to get that. The government has shown courage and action. In a short time, you have an ability to turn many stones. The Community will be strengthened, as we promised in the election campaign. The municipalities get much more money than the Bondevik government suggested. The free money will be increased by 5.7 billion dollars. Elder care is getting better. In most municipalities, provision is increased and improved in a qualitative way. Students in the primary school should receive better training. There are more resources to train for. It is especially useful for those who wear heavily on the school. The government has invited all the municipalities in the country to a party, not with a free bar, but with a free income, together with a total of $3.9 billion more than the Bondevik government would provide. ‘This is what contributes to the cheerfulness of the mind among otherwise often troubled local politicians’, called it in a commentary place in Today’s Business two days ago. The tax system we now have needs to be improved. We have to get a fairer distribution. Persons with high capital income and high wealth should contribute more to the community. Therefore, the Government proposes a new tax profile. It is a fact that there is a close link between the amount of taxable wealth and the income of a person. The context may be even clearer if we look at real wealth and income. This way, those with high assets have strong reasons to place wealth in low valued objects. Tax on wealth is therefore a useful tool in the distribution policy. The Bondevik government proposed to reduce taxes on wealth. We're going to go against this. This tax should be increased for groups with large assets but who pay relatively little taxes on wealth. The profile is improved by increasing the bottom subtraction beyond the proposal of the Bondevik government. They benefit from low wealth. The tax on dividends from axles etc. gets higher. It's unthinkable that some people should be able to adapt and pay only 28 pst. tax on dividends from own companies. Others, on the other hand, have to pay up to 61,5 pst. taxes on ordinary wages. The richest people in this country have the majority of income from dividends and not from wages. An increase in dividend tax from 28 to 48 pst. This will therefore lead to substantial tax increases for the wealthiest in society. Reducing the maximum tax on wage income is necessary in order to make tax equal for those who have income from dividends and those who have income from wages and salaries. Raise the tax on dividends to the current maximum tax on wages, i.e. 61,5 pst., would be risky. There is a great risk that it could lead to relocation of enterprises and capital. Norwegian jobs could therefore be at risk. The government suggests a new tax profile. We get a tightening of the top tax and the minimum deduction from the Bondevik government. Furthermore, taxes on wealth and inheritance are easily reversed. In total, this represents a change of $6.4 billion in relation to the Bondevik scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1632	Today there has been a lot of talk about taxes. I want to talk a little bit about nursing and care services. The right-hand objective of care services is, above all, to provide security for individuals and to ensure a high quality of service that safeguards their dignity and ensures quality of life and independence in old age. It's about taking the elderly seriously and meeting them with the respect they deserve. We want to facilitate a variety of offers and ensure that users are given influence and freedom of choice, because it is a paradox that we have freedom of choice in areas that may not be so important to us; we can choose banks, and we can choose telecommunications operators and power providers, but we should not be able to choose in the areas that intervene in our innermost, most private and vulnerable spheres. For what right do we have to deprive elderly and nursing people of control over their own lives and the management of their own homes? Too many elderly and nurturing people have to deal with dozens of different helpers. It feels both unsafe and unworthy. Security measures include: that we ourselves have the power to decide who should enter our own home, into our private sphere. That should be obvious. I want to ask everyone here in the hall to think about how it would be felt if they were in need of help for a period of time, that up to 15 different people come to their homes to do indoor washing, and that they had been deprived of the opportunity to decide who would do it. I think it would tie itself inside most, and they would argue against it. Older and nurturing are no different from us, and they have a right to be met with respect. A survey was recently published among users of home care services on behalf of the Danish Ministry of Health. Some 38 000 older people in Denmark receive services from private individuals, and the survey shows that they are very satisfied. Experience from Denmark shows that the quality of the assistance is improved if more municipalities allow for the free choice of who will provide the home services. In Denmark, a law on the free choice of providers of personal and practical assistance in the home services of public funding was introduced on 1 January 2003. Today, 79 pst. of the country's municipalities offer choice between two or more in personal care, practical assistance and food service. 90 pst. the choice of home service users in the country and the attitudes and experiences of users are very positive. This survey confirms what the Right has said for a long time: the ability to gain influence over your own situation and the assistance you receive increases satisfaction and security and ensures high quality of service. We also have similar experiences from a few municipalities in Norway. In the light of these experiences, it is strange, yes incomprehensible, that the new government has such a negative attitude to give us freedom of choice between various public and private offers. For the right, the point of user choice has never been that the public should save money. We want user choice because it has value in itself for older people to regain control and the right to have their own life situation, and because we are convinced that the quality of the offer will be better if more municipalities give older and more nurturing freedom of choice. If more can provide services, they will have to compete for quality and diversity in order to attract as many potential users as possible. We choose the dentist and the hairdresser that we experience gives us the best treatment and care. It will be right that all those in need of care should also have the opportunity to do so. The government aims to increase the number of elderly care employees by 10,000 over the next four years, and clearly believes that it will address the challenges we face today in the care of the elderly. But it does not help with more warm hands if your hands are not competent. A one-sided focus on quantity rather than quality does not solve the challenges in the care sector. Now the government must listen to professionals. Research director Arild Bjørndal of the National Health Knowledge Centre warns the government in an interview in Monday morning November 21st, 2005 against making mistakes in the care of the elderly. He believes that the main problem is not lack of staffing, but that it must be focused on quality and competence. Much could be done if the hospitals gained better treatment skills in medicine, care and physiotherapy, and if hospitals and hospitals could cooperate better. This I hope the Government takes inwards. Quality and content of care services is what needs to be given the highest priority now. This challenges the Minister of Health and Welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1660	It must be allowed to be gentle today! SEK 5.7 billion for the municipalities next year. That's the case, it gets like this! With the knowledge of Kommune-Noreg that moved to a member of the municipal committee in four years: it is so important! That's so good! It's not that all the challenges are solved overnight. However, we are preventing for the first time the new non-social cut. There will be room for some more night shifts and teachers. There'll be fewer empty swimming pool. People mark the change from 1 January 2006. There are many unsolved tasks in our society. The central party went to the elections for a new government because we meant the resources and possibilities that this country has to be managed in a more wise and forward-looking way. The government has laid the foundations for a new direction of economic policy. A better distribution between groups and districts, a new and better policy for business development, increased commitment to transport and enhanced local welfare are important pillars. We have great ambitions. It will require hard work. It will also require further redistribution. It will require long-term thinking and willingness to invest in the future. The Government Declaration contains many important and good things that the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party will be working on for the next four years, both in government and in big business and abroad. Let me make two points: the Government announces that the State Budget Committee's report on increasing long-termity in government budgeting will be the basis for a review of a possible separation between operations and long-term investment in budgetary policy. The government will work to develop new governance tools and models in economic policy nationally and globally. It is an important task to ensure that government budgeting and financial management ensure that important societal tasks are effectively resolved. It is necessary to highlight and strengthen the involvement of hijackers and models looking beyond whether the budget appears neutral on demand and ensuring better performance over time. Let me take three examples: the center party wants to increase the focus on prevention and development rather than repair. A large part of the state's expenditure on both state and municipal budgets is undergoing repair today. The trend has been that expenditure on hospital care, health benefits, disability, daily allowance, labour market measures and expenditure growth is increasing. The previous government acted as pure accountants. Maintaining a given budgetary balance at any given time was superior to carrying out a desired and necessary effort to turn public spending from means to repair into investment in prevention and development. There is a great need for investment in the transport sector. More long-term thinking is also necessary in this area. At the given time, there has been no available capacity in the plant sector that has not been exploited. Modernisation of communications will reduce distance costs and improve the framework for competitive business. Centralization has its price. An active policy to maintain and establish new jobs in areas with free capacity when it comes to labour, housing, school and kindergartens will create less pressures in cities and neighbourhoods. This in turn will lead to lower costs for private, business and society than if centralisation continues as it is. Today, there are probably hundreds of thousands of years of non-participation in the labour market. Some are involuntaryly available. Others are involuntaryly obnoxious. A lot of people are working at home. Many are older people who want to slow down rather than retire. Many are retired who want to work something. Increased opportunities for qualification measures and measures to stimulate employers to benefit from the ‘reserve forces’ will reduce the pressure on the labour market and contribute to lower wage growth. Increases in long-termity and new models and instruments of economic policy must be used to ensure that priority measures, in some cases, reduce the pressure on the economy by reducing costs in business, increasing wages or, in some areas, reducing public expenditure. Such a practice of government financial management will not lead to an increase in private consumption but, on the other hand, to the long-term viability of the Norwegian economy and, in addition, to an even better everyday life for more people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1686	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1689	The Head of Parliament of the Central Party was concerned about everything that could be enjoyed in this budget. I guess there are some points that you might not like about the budget you're going to adopt here today. For the Progress Party, it has been important to retain the cash support in order for families with children to have the option of freedom of choice. So in this budget, which the government is going to adopt later today, you will cut the grant period for cash support by one month and reduce the cash support rates. In total, this means that you cut to the children’s families with approx. Three hundred million. kr. My question to the Center Party, who promised to protect the cash support in the election campaign, is: Is this something to rejoice about?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1697	With the distinction that has gone through this hall when it concerns the view of cash support, the Central Party is very pleased that the Government is going in to continue the cash support scheme according to the same model as today. So that means that it's the same families that should be able to benefit from cash support. A conversion shall be implemented once we have achieved full child-care coverage. In addition, the Centerpartie is glad that many parents will be able to increase their freedom of choice as early as 2006. Unlike the Progress Party, it is for the Centre Party that it is a commitment to ensure that parents have a real choice between kindergarten and cash support. It's not like that today. I've even met many young families who are very surprised because they see that they don't have a choice, because there's no nursery space.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1702	As Minister of Social Affairs, Magnhild Meltveit Paste forward the discoloration message. For four years she has repeatedly criticised the Bondevik II government for launching targeted measures against poverty rather than general schemes to create equality and reconciliation between groups. The favorite expression was: More to the richest. I would like to quote from the representative's criticism during the discussion of the Bondevik II Government's report on combating poverty: ‘The government’s figures show that for 2003 they received 350,000 kroner, 6000 kroner or more from tax revenue. At the same time, groups that really needed to strengthen their own economy got tightened up. So the government had more money – it chose to give it to the richest.’ In the budget of the Stoltenberg government, only a few hundred copies of tax bills will be paid to those who make more than 800,000 kroner, while those who make over 150,000 dollars in tax bills will receive 15 000 dollars. To say it with Meltveit Kleppa's own words: “So the government had more money – it chose to give it to the richest.” Was it in this direction that the Center Party intended to smooth out?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1717	It's with the greatest joy I should clear up something that for Right must be a public misunderstanding. In fact, the redistribution that the Government has carried out in this budget is to add $3 billion to the top of the budget. And then there's further redistribution, but in sum, there's $5.7 billion more going to the municipalities. No one is in any doubt that care and care are needed, and that the elephants who need extra follow-up in the school get it with such a redistribution. In addition, there is a commitment to getting more people working, there is a better housing policy, a better safety net, and, to get this done, an even fairer tax system. It's actually a continuation of the Equalizer message and not a brake, as the Bondevik II government said.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1722	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have a lot in common. We agree with many and important things. One of them is the cash support, which gives parents the freedom of choice and the opportunity to spend more time with their kids. In the election campaign, Magnhild Smeltveit Kleppa said to Stavanger Aftenblad: ‘Is there anyone who believes that the new government is so simple that it will give priority to removing an already introduced welfare scheme such as cash support? The SP is to keep this, and the Ap has saved it until 2008. So the doubt KrF sows about this, you can reject." Now the new government has cut off the cash support. There are signals that you can see continued cut. Is that not reason for concern about the scheme? Can Meltveit Kleppa now guarantee that a new course does not mean more cuts in the scheme and for the families of young children?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1732	It is right that the representative Tørresdal here stresses that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have had and share a common view on many issues. One of the questions where there is actually a shade is about cash support. For the Center Party, the point was to participate in providing cash support to the parents who wanted to spend more time with their kids, and to contribute to freedom of choice. Cash support today is not just for parents who choose to spend more time with their children. In fact, cash support today goes to parents who choose not to spend more time with their kids. It's not my job to advance the budget for 2007, but let me say that it's not a priority case for the Center Party to reduce the extra bets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1737	As Minister of Agriculture, Lars Sponheim was committed to creating room for farmers who would invest in traditional agriculture, niche production or alternative food routes based on their own farm. I felt that this policy, Agriculture Pluss, was well supported by the Center Party as well. One of the alternative food routes for many farmers is the construction of micro and mini-power plants. This was somewhat encouraged by the outgoing government, and it lay among other things. until all such small power plants with an electricity production of up to 10 MW were given green certificates. This will now change and establish in the Soria Moria Declaration that only micro-power plants with a production of up to 1 MW are to receive green certificates. However, the Center Party's Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa believes that the Soria Moria statement is contradictory at this point and thus creates confusion as to what the Government really thinks. My question to the Head of Parliament of the Central Party is this: Is it the Soria Moria Declaration that is adequate for the government's policies in the various areas? Or is it the Central Party's repeated withdrawal from its own government that applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1748	It's surprising to hear from the Left that Lars Sponheim was a government council that aimed to create peace for the peasants. There was well-connected turmoil he created for four years, and it peaked at the lingering commitment that the previous government showed in relation to a good WTO agreement. So to the question of mini- and micro-power plants: Bondevik II did not create a prudent system. They kept talking about it, but they never got into the goal. The Soria Moria Declaration states that one should focus more on renewable energy, and mentions both mini and micro and small power plants, and that is the mini and micro power plants that are to be included in the green certification scheme. There may be a contradiction, and there is something the Government is currently working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1755	I respond to the fact that the representative Meltveit Kleppa does not answer the question asked by the representative of Leirstein. She claims correctly to continue the cash support, seen from the Government and the Central Party, which is an actual mistake. There's actually a reduction, and that's a relatively serious breach of promise. And then she uses the rest of the line exchange with Leirstein to talk about a real choice between kindergartens and cash support. This real option is under pressure when the Government cuts down. From the Progress Party we stand firm to follow up on what we have previously promised on max. price and babysitting. But I think we should now get a clarification from the Central Party, where we are clear that we are sorry to the voters for the breach of the commitments they have committed, and that we also stress what we have planned for the future. It is such that the promises made in August have already expired, obviously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1762	It is my firm belief that very many parents are grateful to the Central Party because we have secured a continuation of the cash support. The Soria Moria statement said nothing about the level. But it has been said that we should keep the current cash support scheme. That's what the government does. It is said, ‘When full child care coverage is achieved, and at the earliest in 2008’, there should be a limited cash support scheme for one- and two-year-olds. It's on the side. So when it comes to the level, it's $200 below what was in the summer of 2003. I didn't think this was a promise break. But I understand that there are parents who have counted on these incomes, and who are a little stated. But then I think they will be very happy for many good arrangements in the municipalities as a result of better municipal economy and, not least, kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1769	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1772	The growth in public consumption is increasing, and taxes and taxes are rising, the Minister of Finance of the Grand Duchy boasted when she presented the government's supplementary proposal on 10 November. The Council of State thus confirmed Norway's position as a different country, because in which other country in the world could such a message be presented as a positive one? As a general objective, the Progress Party has a society with lower taxes and lower levels of public intervention. We do not believe that in this room we are better able to manage the people's money than the people themselves are capable of. We do not want everyone to be forced into identical public solutions. We believe, on the contrary, in diversity, in freedom of choice, in the market and have not, unlike the government parties, given up the ambitions that increasingly fewer and fewer public transfers should have as their main income. The Progress Party wants a society where more and more people are able to cope with their own income, and where those who fall outside meet a voice, warm and inclusive welfare society, with the ability and desire to help. This will not be possible if more and more public welfare schemes are to include more and more people and where, at the same time, incentives for self-help are eliminated in the form of increased taxes and charges. It is not the case that increased taxes lead to increased well-being, as the government’s representatives try to produce it – on the contrary. Lower taxes lead to increased value creation and thereby increased well-being. If the government tries to imagine the Norwegian people, well-being will increase as the tax level increases, and theoretically, 100 pst. taxes provide the very best of welfare. In the government's draft budget, value creation is understood as something that comes almost by itself, as if economic growth is as natural as sunrise. But it's not like that. For example, it is only in Soria Moria's fairy-tale world that it is possible to impose strange environmental requirements on businesses, so in the same spirit to claim that such requirements create new jobs in advanced technology. Such statements do well in slogan competitions, but become theoretical and meaningless for those who feel that profit margins are being squandered and that jobs are being forced out of the country. What, by the way, is the global environmental benefit of setting a business down in Norway, due to our environmental requirements, if the same enterprise starts up identical production in one of our neighbouring countries? We may score a little higher on one of the UN's environmental rankings, but the price we pay is more unemployed and more early pensioners. That price is not the Progress Party willing to add to the remaining companies and the Norwegian people. Similarly, we can go through the state budget point by point. Why should Norwegian companies have a lower depreciation rate on their machines and equipment than our competitors have? Does Prime Minister Stoltenberg and Minister of Finance Halvorsen really believe that the alleged increase in public revenue this generates will be better managed as free income in our municipalities? The truth is that the estimated income of the years is reduced, because the value creation is reduced as a consequence. However, such calculations are not presented in the annual government budgets, but they are guaranteed to be presented when the many management boards are required to assess whether new investments are to be made in Norway or abroad. And then to the property tax – a tax that all our competitors have removed or are planning to remove: ‘Forms are divided incorrectly among the population’, the Minister of Finance said in this Chamber two weeks ago. Yes, of course it is. That's the way it has to be. Investments are financial assets and assets managed and saved privately. Property is not something you distribute. Assets are taxed funds that individuals have chosen not to consume. Assets are the very basis for further industrial development, for innovation and for venture capital; there is nothing that politicians should benefit because someone has and others do not have. That individuals have wealth, and that some have greater wealth than others, is a healthy sign of the economy. It shows that it is possible to succeed. It shows that it is possible to pursue an idea or an investment strategy, create values, develop technology, create jobs and pay taxes, and remain with a financial gain. The challenge, of course, is not that some have become rich, but how we, as politicians, can make it possible for even more people to create their own wealth. The idea of creating more well-being and justice by confiscating parts of already taxed capital is certainly found in the Blinder Colloquium but is not very suitable as a national economy governance tool. Instead of finding creative ways to distribute wealth to Stein Erik Hagen, Trygve Hegnar and Kjell Inge Smoke, the focus should be on how we can create incentives so that these, and many with them, can create new values and jobs, thus ensuring the long-term well-being of Norway. But when justice is confused with equality, creativity is confused. Ideally, it should be that people’s willingness to invest their own money depended on the welfare services in the public sector. In a non-profit world, the investor should be satisfied with a return on capital that included heated water in the local swimming pool or a floating new town hall. But it's not like that! It may or may not be the case, but an investor places capital primarily for its own gain and not for the purpose of financing the many election vows of politicians. Our task, therefore, as politicians, is not to flay the rich, but to create driving rules that maximise the individual's willingness to take risks, which consequently generate economic growth and increase revenue to the state, and thereby improve public welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1794	The efforts of children and young people are one of the most important tasks of this government. Therefore, efforts to combat poverty among children and young people are important. Child protection shall provide assistance to families and children in crisis and responsibility for child protection was transferred to the State from 1 January 2004. Child protection is currently experiencing a significant increase in the number of users of its services, and, as the Storting knows, the Government has granted 150 million. extra for the protection of children in the year’s budget. This is what the Government believes is an absolutely necessary reinforcement. The challenges of child protection will also be very great in the coming days. Equality is about redistributing power and care in society. In order for us to be able to do this, it is important that we deal with everything we do, including budgetary work. The government will increase the rate of kindergarten expansion. Children's playgrounds are good for children, but also one of the most important equal opportunities policy instruments we have in improving the opportunities for both sexes to participate in employment. In the Action Plan for Gender Equality in Kindergarten, we added an increase of 3 million. kr. This plan has two main objectives: it should be 20 pst. men in kindergartens by the end of 2007 and equality and equivalency shall underpin all activities and pedagogy in kindergarten. As part of the focus on the quality of kindergarten, an increase of 50 million has been entered in the budget. kr to a competence plan. This will also include gender equality among employees. A report on the allocation of financial resources between women and men was added to the 2006 State budget. Income, employment and time use.’ The report shows that there is still an unacceptable gap between women and men in income. The government takes these findings into account in a broad approach to gender equality in the labour market and in the family. Still, women earn significantly less than men, and there are no signs of improvement. In our policy platform, the Government suggests that we should pursue a labour market policy where equality and equal pay are key elements. As one of a number of measures to safeguard employee rights, the Government will set up an equal pay commission. An important reason for the systematic differences between the working hours, positions and wages of women and men found in working life is precisely gender differences in the choice of education and profession. We need the competence and capacity of both sexes across disciplines. Vocational and study guidance is one of the areas of activity of the Knowledge Lift, and a strategy plan for improving gender balance in education is now under development. The participation of fathers in the first year of life of the child is important for the early establishment of good contact between father and child and for the distribution of care responsibilities by parents. Experience has shown that earmarked quotas for father are the most effective means of increasing fathers’ association with their young children. That is why I would like to commend the Bondevik administration for the proposal that finally came up in terms of increasing the feather quota by one week. It was affectionate and necessary, and it wants this government to follow up. The government believes that it is a human right to choose whom one will marry. As it is today, unfortunately, it is not that everyone has this choice. As stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, this work will be high on the Government's agenda. In order to develop a good and preventive policy in this area, we believe it is important to identify the extent of forced marriage in Norway. I am therefore pleased that we in the budget have proposed to set aside funds for a screening exercise that could give us the opportunity to deliver good, targeted actions in the future. Gender mutilation is one of the most serious abuses against young girls today. In order to document the impact of the work done so far to prevent sexual injury, the government has submitted 500000 kroner to a project under the Primary Medical Workshop. The project will provide us with information on how the measures implemented have worked and will provide a basis for continuing this important work. Gender equality will be one of the cornerstones of the welfare state in the coming years. We must be able to distribute both power and participation in such a way that we use the entire population's competence. For this government equality is very important, and we have started working for an equal society, among other things. through this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1822	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1825	Governments have been very committed to achieving gender balance in corporate governance and have clearly stated that non-follow-up enterprises should be forced to do so. In the press we have read reports that there is very little gender balance in the State Council's own department. There it is 10-30 pst. men, depending on the department. There are women in a significant majority also in the important case-handling positions and in leadership positions. There is reason to believe that this has an impact on the procedure, both in the case of contribution cases, child distribution cases and perhaps also in the case of management boards. Someone will consider this a democratic problem, and my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State clear up its own camp before she continues to plague the companies with unrealistic, unnecessary and unreasonable laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1830	First, I want to tell the representative that there is no doubt that the balance in my department could have been better when you look at the total distribution. But then I also want to say that it is important that what we do in the political field is based on political decisions and what is laid down in a political course. I can promise the representative that this Council of States will have a strong political hand over the work to be done, both in evaluating the rules of contributions and other things. With regard to this last one dealing with quotaing in the boardrooms, I think we just have to admit that here we disagree. But I am absolutely sure and also believe that the Progress Party is going to come slowly, but surely after this important point. It just takes a little longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1837	Governments were concerned with the safety of children and the safe framework of children. It brings me to the parents' economy and the cash support question. We have now heard in the previous reply round from the representative of Meltveit Kleppa that the centre party believes that it is the guarantor of the cash support. Of that we can then read that the Workers' Party and SV in that case are the aggressive party to bite more of it. Based on the views of the Centre Party, it is also the case that cash support should not be due to who it should be, only those who explicitly do not make use of the kindergarten offer. My question is: Do you want to escape further from the promises you made in the election campaign? Can the parents feel confident that no further cuts are being made, or is it due to further cuts, and is it in that case the tightening of the centre party that is then the next round?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1844	I must admit that I had never thought that I was going to stand on this platform and defend the cash support system, but I will do so today. This government has great respect for the views of the Centre Party in this matter. Anyone who reads our statement will see that here we have reached agreement with the arrangement. But it is quite right, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa said before today, that there are no things said about the level. We have to get back to that. But I want to say that toddlers can be sure that this scheme will not be removed in the next state budget. It's like, as Meltveit Kleppa said earlier today, that the arrangement is still in place. Then we're going to re-assess everything the day the nursery sector is fully developed. However, it is thoughtful that what was meant by the cash support scheme has not proved to be possible. This arrangement, which involves many billions of dollars for the families of young children, does not lead to parents and children getting more time together. And it should also be a thinker for those who put this system in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1849	It's not right, as state councillor Karita Bekkelmem says, that cash support has not given more time to young children's parents. There are almost 80,000 who use the scheme, and most of them use it to care for the children themselves. And what does a cash support policy help when the new government doubts the amount? The Council of State Karita Bekkellmen talks about the efforts of children and young people, and she has previously stated that the cash support is too low to give real freedom of choice, either at home or out of work. But what the new government is doing is that it weakens the freedom of choice by reducing the amount and creating great uncertainty about what comes as cash support the following year, because no one knows. The signal given by the new government is a narrowing of family policy. Where we have arranged for a shortage, where parents themselves can decide what they want for their children, the new government is constantly sending out new signals that the best thing is to choose what the Labour Party thinks is right, and it seems that everyone is going to kindergarten, for it has been said in the past that it is dangerous for children to be at home with parents, yesterday that it was dangerous for the gross national product. Which comes next week, we don't know, but there's a clear signal coming. We want shortages, we want full child care coverage, and we want good cash support, so that parents themselves can decide this, and not that it's the Labour Party or the new government that's going to control their parents' choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1854	There is no doubt that in the last 15 years, the Labour Party has been based on the wishes of its parents, and it has been combining the participation of women in taking care of children and being able to give birth. That's why we've got leave arrangements. It is the Workers' Party that has been at the forefront of that type of scheme. In addition, studies show that what parents want are safe and affordable kindergartens for their children. And then I want to say, to the extent that we're going to take criticism, at least we're not going to do it at this point where we've cut some small amounts at the cash support rate, because the Christian People's Party in government cut the baby supplement by NOK 680 to give it an increase to the few parents who used cash support. The Christian People's Party has been in control of family policy the longest of all parties in the last ten years, and we know the results. I expect from the Christian People's Party here that one can enter into a dialogue on how we can achieve future reforms towards the young children's families that are actually in demand and longed for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1861	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1864	Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen said during the presentation of the supplementary proposal: ‘Norwegian economy is solid. We expect strong economic growth next year, good growth in employment and a decline in unemployment.’ Probably never in Norwegian history has any government taken over with better economic prospects. It is also gratifying that the Government recognizes this. The problem lies in the government’s lack of understanding of what has created the positive outlook for the Norwegian economy and the significant improvement that existed between 2001 and 2005. Even today, the Minister of Finance is trying to depreciate the effect of the budget. Not only how much is used has an effect on interest rates, but also what it is used for has an effect. The Ministry of State confirms in a letter to the Finance Committee that increasing government expenditure financed by fiscal austerity is an expansion of the economy and will therefore be both inflationary and increasing the pressure on interest rates. The same applies to the last bombing point in the press release after the last increase in interest rates. When both the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway state that the first budget of the Stoltenberg II Government is more expansive than the last of the Cooperative Government, the Minister of Finance should listen. Increases in interest rates will always be more severe than families with children, young people in the start-up phase and businesses and jobs. In addition, when companies face increased taxes and lower depreciation rules, job losses will be avoided. I am amazed that the Government is in favour of the Norwegian economy moving from pessimism to optimism in the last four years, while the same government is removing the instruments that made it possible. That's what the State Council Odd Eriksen puts in a strange light, at least in relation to the Minister of Finance, when the Council of State says that he's at least happy that some of the instruments that worked so well for the Cooperation Government are allowed to stand unspoiled. One might ask if it is Germany, France or Sweden to which one is going to apply when presenting its additional proposal on the use of instruments. No one is particularly successful. Today, you come to Norway to look at successful industrial policies, you no longer go to Sweden. Therefore, the present government should also learn from what happened in the previous period. What is the objective of this budget to ensure that 2006 and 2007 will also be a record year for business start-ups? When 50,000 new businesses were created in the previous ageing period, it is not random. There are no measures in this budget to improve the framework conditions neither for entrepreneurs nor for newly established companies. Unfortunately, one who invests NOK 1 million and is at the top of the property tax line and gets 5 pst. returns, are increased by about 10 percentage points in relation to the last proposals of the Bondevik II Government. And adding one to the bottom of the Bondevik II government's wish to remove the property tax, the difference is approximately. 20 percent points. If something is to be created, it has to be invested. That is why it is very regrettable that investment and creation are now even harder for taxation. It promises bad for both future value creation and not least for our future well-being. When the government continues to suck at nutrient research and has a knowledge minister who downgrades knowledge, I understand that the question of what they want with the future is going to be unanswered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-24.ana.ud1496e1882	The time for tomorrow's meeting is almost over. The President proposes that the meeting be suspended and that an evening meeting be held. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will be the first speaker in the evening meeting.
