ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e90	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Højres Storingsgruppe to the representative Åge Konradsen from 3 June onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Anna Amdal Fyhn, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e108	Anna Amdal Fyhn is present and will take the seat. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e127	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups. Work Party and Right 30 minutes each, Progress Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 15 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e138	I would like to thank you for a statement that was thorough and good. When we had a debate on this in December in Stortinget, the Labour Party welcomed the question of whether we should try to participate in these new EU response groups, but we asked questions as to whether this would be in line with the Constitution. That's because we're going to join a military combat team, unit, that's going to be deployed after a decision in an organization that we're not a member of. After the negotiated agreement and what the Minister of Defense said about this in the Storting yesterday, this has, in our opinion, been clarified. I would like to quote what was said, because this is what this agreement is based on: ‘It is the Council of the European Union that will decide to launch an operation and to make use of the effort forces. However, the nations still decide to deploy their national forces. The EU Member States are free to choose whether to participate in an operation or not, as is, of course, the case on the Norwegian side.’ We believe that this has been clarified in relation to the Constitution. Questions were also raised by us and many others about control of Norwegian forces during an operation. Here I would quote what the Minister of Defence said: ‘The agreement also respects the requirement that we retain control of Norwegian forces used in an operation. It states that each country should have the right to hold positions in the various management functions. Furthermore, each nation will have the right to stop the use of its own forces which do not comply with national guidelines’. It is important that this is said, and on that basis, the Labour Party can say yes to participating in one of these forces. The debate in December also focused on the issue of a mandate under international law. There are, in principle, three possibilities for a mandate under international law for the deployment of such forces. One is that there is a decision of the Security Council requesting such a strength to be deployed. The second option is according to the UN Charter that two countries in conflict – or a country in conflict with a grouping within their own country – can together ask for assistance to resolve a conflict. There is no need to go down the road to a decision of the UN Security Council, because according to the UN Charter, all states are sovereigns, and they have the sovereign right to ask for assistance from another country or military organisation. In this case, two countries in conflict, or a country experiencing a conflict on its own territory, may agree with the one in conflict, to ask for assistance – in this case from an EU response group. They can do so and have a mandate under international law. The third option is that according to paragraph 51 of the UN Charter you can ask for self-defence assistance. We have had several examples of such cases over the years. As far as the latter is concerned, there was one case in connection with Afghanistan, where the Security Council referred to paragraph 51 of the UN Charter. There was no explicit decision in the UN Security Council that the United States should go to war against Afghanistan, but only reference was made to paragraph 51 of the UN Charter. So it is not necessary in all cases to have a decision on the UN Security Council, but it is important to have a basis on international law, as in any case I interpret it. We have had one borderline case, and it was in Kosovo, where the situation was that the state that committed an assault on its own people, as we defined it, did not ask for assistance, but opposed international intervention, and Russia opposed a decision of the UN Security Council that would give a mandate to overrun the sovereign state. Then we defined it so that it was necessary to take action, however, in order to protect the population of Kosovo, even if there was no new, explicit decision in the Security Council. But Russia did not protest loudly, and therefore a unanimous increase has considered it a mandate of international law for that action. I say a little bit about this because it's been central to the debate. It was then, and it has been sporadic since; there was a small debate in connection with Finland having said something about this in connection with participation in these groups. I want to clarify that we decide for ourselves whether we define an action in accordance with international law. It's a sovereign Norwegian decision if we want to participate in an action, if we find it under international law. I also want to stress again that what we're about to commit to, because so far is something different from the international operations we've been involved in, and the troops we're involved in. The Gulf War, Afghanistan, the Balkans – there we joined an action after a sovereign Norwegian decision. That's also the case here. It is clear that there is a sovereign Norwegian connection that has to be taken into account, but we have to admit that we are being woven into a military cooperation that, of course, binds us up more than what has been the case with other international operations in the past. The closest thing you can compare is that we've tied troops to NATO's effort force, but that's to an organization we're all a member of. Here we do the same in an organisation we're not a member of, and it's clear that it's a difficulty, but I think it's so that we've won it through that agreement and what the Minister of Defense has said here in Stortinget. Otherwise, I just want to say in the end that it is the irony of history that we join a military unit led by the Swedes, in a year where we mark the dissolution of the Union with Sweden. And that happens as a result of the history – history overtakes us, because the EU and NATO have decided on a basis of international law through an agreement to take responsibility for security together. It means that if we had left out of this, our security position would have been weakened. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes it is wise that we join when we have the constitutional possibility of doing so. Something else would be to put us not entirely outside, but a little outside of the security cooperation that is now taking place in Europe. But it can never be completely, because we are not a member of both organisations that are now part of the security of Europe and that will take responsibility for security outside the world as well. I wanted to say that in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e177	I think the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee did very well for both the constitutional and the international legal aspects, and he even says that we are driven into a military cooperation that is stronger than what we've been in before, even in an organisation we're not members of. It has been stressed by the Minister of Defence that there is Nordic cooperation, but at the same time, when we see the backbone for this, we come into the EDA, which is the European Defence Agency. In this it is quite clear that it will bind Norway more up, it will presumably also, at my discretion, make us spend more money on military upgrading in the long term. But what I want to ask is the two 'no' we've got in Europe, which in any case in one country, the Netherlands, could be defined as a kind of people's no to a common foreign and security policy, to a superstate and, of course, to more gathering in this area. How does the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee view this development, i.e. a people's no to it trying to achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e186	I think one is now facing a difficulty in interpreting exactly what the people have said no to. I believe that if we were to get on the table that Europe would suspend the cooperation on defence and security that is now between the EU and NATO and within the EU, the people would protest. I do not think it is in this context that cooperation in defence and security policy will be phased out, on the contrary, I believe that the opposite can actually happen, because we need to move on with the pieces which are essential for Europe, which are essential both for Europe's security and for Europe's strength in global policy, including the vis-à-vis the United States. I believe that the people have said no to a good deal of things, but I do not think they have said no to essential aspects of EU cooperation, such as defence and security policy, the internal market and the things that despite all this are built around.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e191	When the Storting discussed this matter in January this year, there was a broad and strong majority who supported the Government's desire to conclude the agreement the Government has now signed. There were only two parties in this room that were opposed, it was the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Just the two parties take the aim of ruling with the Workers' Party after the election, and the Leader of the Centre wrote in the Evening Post three days ago that the majority of the population took a ‘unlawful’ position. As I assume that the Center Party does not want to participate in a non-constitutional behaviour in the government position, this is probably one of the issues that gets into the long line of so-called rematches that are to be fought. It would be interesting to hear how the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs looks at the prospects for a change in Norwegian foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e198	At this point there can be no rematch. There's a broad majority in the Biggest that supports this, as I understand it, and you can't negotiate away anything there's a majority for in the Biggest. In addition, as regards the question of the Constitution, I would like to inform you that it is this hall that defines whether or not something is in accordance with the Constitution, and we do so on the basis of broad investigations also from people outside the Storting. It is a very important part of the question of dealing with the Constitution. I say this not to Inge Wohnung, but in connection with Åslaug Hagas' article in the Evening Post. The decision we make has not been taken out of the air, but it has been taken in accordance with investigations and assessments that have also been made outside this room. Once we've done this, there can be no doubt that it's in accordance with the Constitution, and it's only the Storting that can really decide it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e205	I think it was sympathetic for the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that he did not rely on the type of rhetoric that some others have used, that the two ‘no’ ones have now received, in France and the Netherlands, are a rash of communism and racism. That's what I think is sympathetic. There are others who haven't managed to stay that good in relation to it. Jagland talked a little bit about the irony of history in connection with us going into a fight group with Sweden, and about fate. But this is not a destiny. This is the Norwegian 'yes' party' wish, if enough, for an adaptation to the EU which is fundamentally not necessary. I also talked about Norway being at risk of being marginalised if we were not to join the battlegroups and thus join the EU’s defence cooperation. Is it Jagland's position that Denmark is currently being marginalised in European context because it is not going to participate in these battle groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e214	It is necessary to state here that the first time the Storting took a decision on whether to participate in the development of EU defence and security cooperation was under the Bondevik I Government. It was the one who suggested to Stortinget that we do it, because it was important to Norway. We took a different position from what Denmark did – it was the yes-parties and the no-parties together that did it. The Danes have received an exception for cooperation on defence and security policy. However, there is a relatively widespread perception in Denmark now that it may be necessary to discuss whether to remove the exceptions. It has something to do with the entire history. I agree that we are free to make a different decision, but the issue is that we are facing a development globally and in Europe that is such that at least we have come to the conclusion that it is good for Norway to be with as much as possible. It is in accordance with what the Bondevik I government thought, that we should get as far as possible into this cooperation. Let's take a step.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e221	Norway has entered into cooperation with Sweden and Finland on intervention forces. It also made clear to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Now it has also appeared that Estonia has joined the cooperation in recent times, which I think is very interesting. It would be interesting to hear from the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee whether he envisages enhanced cooperation with Baltic countries in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e229	I fully agree with Mr Width that this is a very important perspective, and I am pleased that it has come up with this participation. That's an extension of what we've been doing for a long time now. We have cooperated with the Baltics in both bilateral defence and international operations. So this is a natural extension of a cooperation that has really been developed after these countries became free. I would also like to say that what is now happening is a Nordic defence cooperation that many have wanted, but it is indeed the EU which integrates the Nordic countries and which also has prospects for integrating the Baltic countries into Nordic cooperation. Nothing would be better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e236	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e239	I allow myself first to link a slight comment to the previous line change, more specifically the post from Marit Arnstad. She said that it is the 'yes' parties in Norway that are behind this policy. It must then be allowed to bear in mind that of the five parties which supported the Government in the January debate, only two can be called 'yes' parties, namely the Right and the Workers' Party. The three other parties that supported this are either declared no parties in the EU case or a party which has an declared non-opposition in the EU case. To present this as part of the war between the yes and no sides in Norway is a direct disinformation. In my speech, I will carefully comment on that part of the Minister of Defence's statement that was the agreement with our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland, while Bjørn Hernæs on behalf of the Right will comment on the other two parts of the Minister of Defence's statement. In October 1999, i.e. six years ago, the then Norwegian Government sent an official memorandum to all EU and NATO Member States. This memorandum reads the following sections, which, in the light of the situation we are now in, seem very interesting: ‘Norway strongly supports the ongoing efforts to strengthen Europe’s security and defence capabilities in general and to strengthen its capacity for crisis management in particular. Our security’ — i.e. Norway’s security — ‘is the web into and together with the security of the Member States of the European Union and with the security of the Union itself. This is how we have ‘common interests and common security challenges’ — i.e. Norway. Norway has a fundamental interest in the plans and measures to strengthen security and crisis management that are now being developed in the EU. We want to be fully involved in these efforts and will take full responsibility for playing our role in meeting the challenges of the future for Europe’s security.’ When the Norwegian Government sent this memorandum to all EU and NATO Member States, Norway’s Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, Foreign Minister Knut Vollebæk, and, if I do not remember correctly, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was Åslaug Haga. So the central party was fully involved in this government position policy. Many things have happened since 1999, and the path to the concept that the European Union is working on today to address precisely the crisis management aspect of security policy is a concept that was not known in concrete terms six years ago. The fact that the concept today means that Norway can have fully integrated military cooperation with our two neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland, which are not members of NATO, while Norway is not a member of the EU, is, in my view, exceedingly positive and overbearing. Historically, it must be allowed to recall that it in a way implies that the ring has ended back to the phase we were in at the end of the 1940s, when all the Nordic countries had to choose which alliances they were to enter in order to take care of their own security in the time of the Cold War. At that time, the alternative to NATO membership, which Norway and Denmark chose, was a Nordic defence alliance, or a Nordic defence union, as it was then called. Very many, both in Norway and in other Nordic countries, would have preferred such a solution. Now it's easy to see that there was no realism in the idea of a Nordic defence union at that time, among other things. because, in the long period from 1945 to 1990, Finland had no freedom of foreign policy action and therefore could not freely choose with whom they wanted to cooperate in order to ensure their own security. It is one of the most important things that have happened in Europe in the last 15 years, that not only Finland but also the other countries around the Baltic Sea have gained their full national sovereignty and can therefore freely choose with whom they want to cooperate. But as I said, the ring is now over, so that we can actually achieve the close and mutually committed cooperation with our closest neighbours, Sweden and Finland, it's a historic event of considerable reach. What is important at the same time is to conclude that today this is not an alternative to cooperation in NATO, and even less an alternative to cooperation in the European Union. No, there is a necessary component of cooperation in NATO and cooperation in the European Union. The future of this is that by preparing a joint effort between the three Nordic countries — Sweden, Finland, Norway — and Estonia are helping to strengthen crisis management preparedness in a global perspective, because that is what is new in relation to the situation at the end of the 1940s. Today, there are the global crisis challenges involved, i.e. crises that can arise at any time and anywhere. It is also important to state that the international leader who has warmly welcomed the EU crisis management concept is the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, to whom the Minister of Defence rightly pointed out in his statement. This has been done by Kofi Annan because he knows from bitter experience that the ability of the Security Council to fulfil its mandate to intervene rapidly in crisis situations in today's world is very, very limited, and that what has been the minimum factor all the way is the ability to make rapid efforts, which requires that there are also interest-rate forces that are specifically trained for the type of effort, which can be deployed at a few weeks' notice instead of half a year, or a whole year, or half a year, when the disaster is already impossible to prevent. There are, according to my concepts, no minus items in this account. There are no negative items in this account from the Norwegian point of view. For this is clearly a way of investing in our own security, which is at the same time an investment in global security. In this context, there is no contradiction between our self-interest and the interest in contributing to the ability of the Security Council to fulfil its mission in today's world. I started by quoting the Norwegian Government's 1999 memorandum. At that time, Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk noted that the Government unfortunately failed to accept full Norwegian participation in the process of chiselling out the EU security concept and participation in the decision-making bodies. Now, after six years, we can see that we have already achieved a mutually committed cooperation, where Norway can make an effort to meet the world’s security needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e263	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e266	It's interesting to hear the representative of Wage, who has been strongly involved in Nordic cooperation. But I fear that this is something more than just Nordic cooperation. When your salary looks at crisis management preparedness in Nordic cooperation, I will ask the question: is this not also an increase in the militarisation of the EU, and not least of Europe? The EU, or the EDA, has in the long term been planning to have approx. 60,000 clusters standing ready for so-called out of area operations. Does the representative see wages that this can help to prevent civil ways of resolving conflicts, that one with such great capabilities is military rather than civil solutions to conflicts around the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e273	The representative Jacobsen said he was afraid that this was something more than Nordic cooperation. I'm glad that there's just something more than Nordic cooperation, and that we've come to the point where most people have realized that Nordic cooperation is not an alternative to further forms of cooperation. Today, all Nordic land-led politicians realize that Nordic cooperation is not an alternative but an integrated component. That's how the Nordics can make a joint contribution in global terms. I am not afraid that this is a contribution to militarisation, because it is not about what is called an EU army in Norwegian rhetoric. These are the forces for which each Member State itself has full responsibility, and these are the forces which each of these countries already have. It is not a question of further development of defence capacity. Then I have to remind the representative Jacobsen, as we have kindly done in previous line changes. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e282	The President just wants to remind the representative of Wage that the time for replying to replies is 1 minute. He was supposed to know!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e285	Probably it is also so that he knows it! So we're talking about forces that have to be at the same time interest in a pre-determined rotational system. If a situation arises where it is appropriate to use such a strength — or that in which Norway is involved — and Norway, for example. For reasons of international law, how does the representative see Wage in such a situation and the practical treatment here in Stortinget, with the pressure that will then be associated with Norway withdrawing from a force that is both pure and complete?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e292	That's what the representative sees on the payroll. It is clear that the point of this strength is that it is still pure. If not, it would have made no new contribution to dealing with acute crisis situations at short notice – of course. It also implies that there will be considerable difficulties in a situation in which the cooperating countries should have different perceptions of, for example, the questions of international law. But that dilemma we have to live with, because that's how reality is. I must be allowed to add that my experience is not that our neighbours in Sweden have a much more looser way of dealing with international law than what we have in Norway. Nor do I have the impression that Finns have a much more looser way of dealing with international law than Ola Nordmann has. So I will so far choose to sleep well at night.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e299	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e302	The Progress Party remains very critical of the defence and security policy dimension in the EU and considers that these tasks should be left entirely to NATO. We see the EU's defence dimension as an expression that some European countries want to play a stronger role in security policy than is being done in NATO today. However, as previously stated in this Chamber, we must deal here with the fact that the European Union will actually play a role in this area in the future. Then we think it makes most sense to find suitable ways to cooperate. So where it is practical and sensible and can serve our national interests, we will contribute. The EU effort forces are such an area in which we think it makes sense to set up. We are pleased that the management of these forces will be located in the United Kingdom. That this becomes a Nordic effort force seems very reasonable. It is also important to stress the need to seek to be complementary to NATO rather than a competitor. Although this will certainly be tried in the best possible way, it is not to hide that this is all a kind of duplication within an area where NATO should have all the possibilities to attend to the tasks. But our hope of participation is, of course, that we can achieve something more than to participate in some specific tasks. We hope that with this, we will be able to contribute and help focus on the EU northwards, and that in this way we can better safeguard our national security interests than if we were allowed to participate. Although we are very concerned that NATO does not just exist, but remains the security centre of gravity it has been, we cannot waive the possibility of participating in what is now happening, within the framework of the EU. Only with an active policy adapted to the current reality will we be able to ensure optimally. It is against this background that we agree to participate in the EU response forces. Today it was both gratifying and clarifying to get insurance from the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, that this question is not a theme for rematching after the autumn's elections. But in order for us to be completely safe, it could be clarifying whether SV and the Center Party also expressed the same attitude. Finally, I would like to say briefly that we, of course, fully share the Government's view on the importance of having US pre-storers in Norway, and that we are very pleased that a new agreement between Norway and the United States has been negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e325	Indeed, within the EU, it is an objective of liberalisation of trade in goods. In this case, we're also talking about strategic commodities. It may also seem that what has been a part of the way in which weapons have been traded in many countries over a long period of time is precisely the case with repurchase agreements. This can be done on the basis of regional policy considerations, national considerations, etc. But how does the Progress Party see that the tradition of repurchase arrangements and that of doctoring at the bottom there is now under threat because this is to be liberalized?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e332	As the representative Jacobsen describes, we support the repurchasing arrangements, and see it as positive not least for Norwegian industry, which gives us a good opportunity to participate in important development projects. We will have to deal actively with the guidelines and policies that are being developed, but Norway will have to contribute here. What Jacobsen is now describing becomes a little hypothetical, and we have to deal with the current policy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e337	The Progress Party is the only party in this Chamber that is a member of Norwegian neutrality vis-à-vis the EU. That is why, in my view, it is double welcome that the Progress Party so clearly and unreservedly supports the agreement signed by the Government with Sweden, Finland and Estonia. I also perceive the representative, Höglund, that under no circumstances can the party of progress intend to participate as some form of birth aid for a government alternative that will start to claw this out. I think that's a pleasure, too. What I would like to ask Mr Höglund about is why the Progress Party is still repeating its scepticism about the further development of the EU's defence and security policy, as long as it does in its contractual cooperation with NATO, as it has always done. Why, then, are you anxious?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e346	We, for our part, believe that NATO has worked, should be able to function further and should be the framework for security policy and for international defence in our part of the world. We're afraid of a development where we create non-competitive structures, so at least different structures that can partially overlap, and that in that way we lose focus, that we don't get concentrated resources within what we should concentrate resources on, that we divide both on the planning side and in other ways, and that we don't get an optimal defense, that we could get if we had put all the eggs in one box, that NATO should be in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e351	I note that the representative, Mr Höglund, is pleased that the United States is continuing to store defence equipment in Norway in advance. But what should this material, in the opinion of the representative, Høglund, be used for? In fact, it's been quite many years since the invasion hazard from the east was blown off like what was supposed to dimension the defense in Norway, including the allied capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e356	The Minister of Defence addressed the various areas in which materials can be used. It is true that the danger of invasion from the east is not there. But in an alliance, and we're talking about Norway's most important alliance partner, it's important to be as operational as possible. Being able to have material located in Norway will be a strengthening of our defence. It will be an important contribution in cooperation with the United States in relation to training and whose situations would arise. There are many other threats you can imagine than a pure invasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e361	I think it is important to take a little step forward in the dialogue with the representative, Mr Höglund, in relation to the relationship between NATO and the EU, because I still have difficulties in understanding that the Progress Party defines this as an anti-interest relationship. As far as I am aware, all the countries with which we work in NATO, which are European countries, are either at the same time members of the EU or hot trailers, precisely because the EU will take a greater part in responsibility for security. So it's the complication that, just as far as the agreement we're discussing today is concerned, Sweden and Finland are not members of NATO, as we know. It further underlines, at my discretion, the point that there is no conflict of interest or opposition between NATO and the EU in this development. Why does the Progress Party still believe that there is such a contradiction of interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e366	I must clearly have expressed myself very unclear, but for our part NATO should be the main defence policy instrument. We want another EU cooperation. We do not want the EU to include a common foreign and security policy – and we have also said that from this platform. But it's now happened in the defence policy arena, and then we go back one step and say, "Let's deal with it, let's participate and be constructive. It should be important that we take reality into consideration and participate in order to safeguard the Norwegian interests. Then I ask for respect for what is our principle view, but which we have to put aside to care for this interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e371	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e374	Several speakers, including the Minister of Defence, have said that this is almost Nordic cooperation. If we continue to look at the continuation of this Nordic cooperation, we will enter the EU. We come into the common foreign and security policy. We also come into the ESDP, the EU's army, and of course we come into EDA, its so-called defence agency. All these institutions within the EU have come in a mildly more uncertain situation since the proposal for a new constitution in the EU, at least for a time, seems to have some basic requirements. The debate we are going to have here in the Chamber today must also be involved, and it may seem that the European Union, through referendums in some countries, is also skeptical of what someone in the Netherlands calls a superstate, and the other will use a different name in other places. On 15 February the Foreign Minister said in this Chamber: ‘We will enter into a cooperation agreement with the European Defence Agency (EDA) in a short time. Cooperation with the EDA will be an important element of our dialogue with the EU on defence policy issues. The Agreement shall involve regular consultations and shall at the same time open to Norwegian participation in EDA projects and programmes.’;» There is no doubt that, among other things: will have an impact on Norwegian development of and trade in defence equipment. In the NATO message that we are going to deal with a little later today, it is also said quite clearly: ‘Participation in the Force’ – i.e. the EU’s response force, the Nordic Battle Group – ‘is a continuation of Norwegian support for a common European security and defence policy and of participation in EU military and civil crisis management operations’. There is no doubt that the military involvement referred to here is highly related to EDA's cooperation, that of the intervention force. Further named in the same NATO message: ‘On the Norwegian side, we have also worked to ensure good access to the EU body for defence equipment’ — EDA — ‘which entered into function on 1 January 2005. A bilateral agreement will be signed in spring 2005.’ It was done okay for here. Link this to what happened at the Finnish Defence Minister's meeting earlier this year, and the agreement on Nordic contributions to this fighting group under EU command that was reached there seemed to be a clear picture. Norway is at a time of writing in full speed into closer EU cooperation, with strong security policy implications, with the European Defence Agency at the centre. As I see it, the EDA is driving interests within the European defence industry as well. In concrete terms, I mean that when we look at the huge resources that go to the defence budget – even if there is a reduction in this, a partial savings – this is a clear signal of militarisation. As you know, the EU aims to set up nine so-called Battle Groups with 1,500 soldiers in each group, ready for deployment to international conflicts by 2007. The EU Battle Groups will be at the disposal of the EDA. These forces will in reality be so-called complementary to NATO's expressive forces. This represents a militaristic development of the EU's foreign policy because the EU's new army provides a new means of aggression beyond its own borders. Whether or not this expansionary military activity is going to be driven on the basis of UN decisions does not play such a big role in this context. In principle, it is to put this strength at the disposal of foreign policy a militaristic development that SV believes Norway should not participate in. The EDA’s first priority is at the time of writing to address the fragmented needs of the EU in relation to the EU’s main objective of military upgrading by 2010. These objectives relate to both military equipment and military capacity. One of these aims is to gain a strength of up to 60,000 troops under EU command, ready for rapid reaction missions. Norway should not contribute to this. Is this something to be desired, in a country that, in the past and today, has quite clear stated objectives that it is the United Nations' capacity to be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e406	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e409	I understood that the representative Jacobsen was skeptical both for EU cooperation and for Norway to participate in these battle groups. When it comes to cooperation in the field of defence and security policy, several have referred here to Kofi Annan, who salutes the development of EU capabilities in defence and security policy and the progress we make together in crisis management, as positive. What does Jacobsen mean by Kofi Annan's misunderstanding of what is happening in Europe? Furthermore, we heard the comment from SV on what they are against, but what are the available cooperation agreements with Sweden and Finland that SV will come up with, where we can cooperate in the military field? Is it this one, or is it the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e418	I don't think Kofi Other people have misunderstood anything. There has been a long wish from the United Nations for the various regions of the world to take more and more responsibility for their security. This has been pointed out many times by the United Nations. So one might ask: can an interpreter Kofi Others there that he is united in the embedded huge militarization and upgrading that is also in EDA's plans? I strongly doubt that. The representative asked Blankenborg about the cooperation with Sweden. We've had that for a long time. We can continue to do that. This is not impossible. There could be a lot of possibilities here. There is no need for us to give in to the EU, in an EU that is uncertain about what they want from a common defence and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e427	I don't think Kofi Annan has misunderstood very much either. On the other hand, the representative Jacobsen has obviously misunderstood a lot. What Kofi Annan has said, even in the official report from the Secretary-General to the UN General Assembly, that is, the most official document available, is that this will help to strengthen the UN's capacity for rapid crisis management in the interests of peacekeeping. So the question of Blankenborg is up to date. Does Bjørn Jacobsen really think Kofi Annan is the world's chief militarist? I must also be allowed to ask another question, a question I asked to Thorbjørn Jagland at the beginning of the debate. SV has announced to the world that they want to rule with the Workers' Party. The Labour Party has now said that this policy will not change. This means that SV is fully prepared to rule on this basis, i.e. state all its positions on Norwegian foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e434	In a debate later today, we will discuss how much money Anna has available to solve the great tasks of the United Nations. We know that if someone else got a little bit of money, pocket money, of what's going on in the world today -- we're talking about $1,000 billion, while the United Nations has a budget of $4-5 billion -- to spend on the UN's work for peace and security and to fight poverty, to achieve the Millenniums, we would have been way off. What I fear, and what I want to warn against here today, is that a user too much money, too much capacity, on military conflict resolution. That's what I thought I should be with here. It should not be just a parentheses. So ask Inge Wohnung for government and what it should be. There should be a choice first. It is to be negotiated, and I do not see that what has been said in this Chamber from the Labour Party and us will be an obstacle to anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e441	I'm following up where the representative Jacobsen left off. Does this mean that Jacobsen now says that this is a debate theme on the part of the SV and that it will try to change the decision taken here today on the EU's intervention forces?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e446	I am not and probably I am not going to join any negotiating delegation on behalf of SV, so I can't answer that question with any kind of weight. Clearly, we have an explicit goal, as has been said several times in the media – a slogan, if you like: not out of NATO, not into the EU. It is clear that SV will always bring with it its EU-scepticism, not least on this issue, where it turns out that the people of the most prominent EU countries are beginning to become skeptical of superstate-like fundamental laws. Obviously, we're going to target these ideas either in the Storting or in any government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e456	Like the Progress Party, Bjørn Jacobsen is skeptical to the EU force here, as we see as a powdering of responsibilities. It will, after all, largely be the same teams that will be used both in the EU and in NATO. But I would like to hear Jacobsen's view of NATO, which, as I understand, has become more liberal over the years. Or does he think Norway is best off any defense bill? I noticed the slogan: not into the EU and not out of NATO. But what does SV want within NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e461	We're going to discuss NATO later today. But just to have said that, the SV, as we always have been, is opposite NATO. But there's no doubt that we're working to do the worst in NATO better. Then we start with the nuclear strategy, etc. But, as I said, we are going to discuss it more closely later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e466	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e470	Let me first of all thank the Minister of Defence for the good and very thorough presentation of yesterday. Norwegian defence policy is based on the recognition that it is often a poor solution to wait to meet security policy challenges until they have materialised on our own territory. We should help to deal with crises, disasters or armed conflicts and find their solution at the earliest possible time before they become too large and unmanageable. It can also help to prevent conflicts from spreading far away to our neighbourhoods. The Christian People's Party supports Norwegian participation in international operations, in order to contribute to increased respect for human rights and the enforcement of the purpose and principles of the UN Charter. In addition, we provide effective humanitarian assistance to people in distress through our contribution to preventing or stopping armed conflicts. Participation in international military operations is thus a necessary and effective foreign policy instrument in situations where political and diplomatic instruments are lacking. Security policy interests and objectives require a wide range of instruments. In international operations, military contributions are only one of many factors that could contribute to achieving the desired objective of peace and stability in a conflict area. Regardless of the background to the use of military power, a basic principle for Norwegian participation in international operations is a clear anchoring of international law and wide international upswing. International law has a central place in foreign and security policy. For a small country such as Norway, an international order based on generally accepted international standards is crucial. For Storting it has been important to have a framework for which international operations by Norwegian soldiers may be involved. The majority believe that international security challenges need to find their solution based on the principles of the UN Charter. Norway's participation must be based on both the legality of international law and the legitimacy of the people. Norway shall continue to participate in preventive warfare and pre-emptive attacks which do not have a clear grounding in international law. These are fundamental and indispensable principles of the Christian People's Party. With regard to Norway's military efforts in Afghanistan, it is based on our mutual commitment in NATO and the exercise of collective self-defence as a result of the terrorist attacks against the United States. This was confirmed in UN Security Resolution 1368. Furthermore, the ISAF operation has its international legal basis in the UN Charter and in agreement with the Interim Administration of Afghanistan. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is absolutely vital that the alliance succeeds in its mission in Afghanistan. The task is extensive, and it is of enormous importance to the Afghan population. This is also the first NATO operation outside Europe. NATO is and will be the cornerstone of Norwegian security. Therefore, Norway must actively participate in NATO operations to help ensure that the alliance itself remains relevant and strong. NATO's involvement in Afghanistan is long-term, in line with the Istanbul Summit Decision. One of the main tasks of ISAF is to contribute to the extension of the central authority in the provinces. As the Minister of Defence pointed out in his presentation, one of the main challenges facing President Karzai and his government today is to strengthen the authority and control of the central government in the provinces. A prerequisite for achieving lasting stability in Afghanistan remains active support and participation from the international community. It is therefore important that allied countries follow up NATO decisions by contributing to the presence of ISAF in the provinces. Afghanistan has been Norway’s main military field of action for the past few years, and this priority is firmly established. Through our contributions to ISAF, we actively support NATO's involvement in the country, which is a broad political uprising both in NATO and here at home. The Minister of Defence informed yesterday’s statement that the Government will make an adjustment to our future presence in Afghanistan, among other things. by concentrating our forces in the north. At the same time, we will have to extract the majority of our forces from Kabul, in addition to the fact that it has now been decided that we will take over the management of Maymaneh from 1 September this year. This will cause us to increase our presence here by 20 people. The extended contribution is also planned to include an assistance advisor and a police adviser. The Christian People's Party puts its trust in the fact that the Minister of Defence is directing the further development with a firm hand. We are pleased to note her assurances that the further planning will reflect that Afghanistan will continue to be our main military field outside, and that the overall Norwegian contributions will be maintained at about the same level. When, in December 2004, the Stortinge debated whether Norway should negotiate an agreement to participate in the EU military security force, the Christian People's Party was included in the majority who supported such a line. We believe that there is a great need for these forces and that Norway should be involved in the development in order to resolve military and civil crises. For the Christian People's Party, there are four prerequisites that it has been important to ensure, and they are now in place: The agreement ensures that a decision on participation in concrete operations is taken nationally.The Norwegian strength contribution shall be under national control.Norwegian participation in concrete operations requires a clear mandate under international law.The EU force must be built up to avoid weakening NATO cooperation, but instead acts as a complement which can also strengthen UN crisis management capabilities. An important point for the Christian People's Party is the fact that the UN Secretary-General wishes to welcome the EU force. The UN needs forces that can be set up at short notice in major operations, not least in Africa. The EU aims to facilitate better cooperation with the UN. Together with the UN, the EU effort force can help to ensure peace. The EU attaches great importance to further developing and strengthening international law and the role of the UN in global crisis management. It is a prerequisite for our participation that any operations do not conflict with the wishes and priorities of the United Nations. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased to hear that the EU has worked closely with the UN during the development of the concept, with the aim of ensuring that the strengths meet as much as possible the needs of the UN for rapid response capabilities. The establishment of these forces is both to strengthen the EU military crisis management capability and to support the UN. The Christian People's Party is not only concerned with the cooperation with the UN, we are also concerned with the allied cooperation in NATO. It is of great importance that NATO and the EU come up with good cooperation arrangements with regard to the relationship between NATO’s reaction force, NRF, and the EU’s response forces. It is important for us and other NATO allies that the EU concept of forces of intervention is complementary and non-competitive in relation to NATO, and in particular in relation to NATO's effort force, NRF. I would also like to address an area to which attention has been paid, namely the treatment of prisoners by the Americans, among others. in Afghanistan. It is not always easy to judge and assess claims about events and conditions in another country so far away. But it must be focused on the fact that respect for the dignity of human life must also apply in war. The war has rules. There are some things we can never do to other people, regardless of war or peace. Ethics and values must govern the use of armed power. We must insist on respect for human dignity and human rights, even in war situations. Here the Norwegian defence has put good principles into practice when it becomes clear that: ‘The respect for human dignity applies even when power is used. During acts of war, our respect for the individual will be put to the strongest test. The heaviest ethical dilemmas of the Defense and the individual soldier lie just here, we must protect social values and human dignity while our own and others' lives can be lost.» The official value basis of the Norwegian defence is no guarantee in itself. Soldiers have to make these values their own. Only in that way can the values control the behavior of the soldiers in the field. In cooperation with colleges, universities and other institutions, first-time civil servants and defence personnel are trained in matters of ethics, morality and international law. In addition to training, exercises and clear guidelines are important contributions to ensuring that our personnel are best equipped to meet ethical challenges in the service. This is an important and positive development in Norwegian defence. Norwegian soldiers have to know what rules apply in war, and they have to inculcate values and attitudes that make the barbarism of war not grip them. Ethics and values must govern the use of armed power.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e531	Following the debate today, there will be a green light for Norway to participate in EU combat groups equipped and trained for sharp missions. It may be about peace-building, but it may as well be about going into a third country to fight terrorism, or a pure military action. The use of the UN as a reason for Norwegian participation in the EU force is often used. But what the EU has opened up to is something more than that. It is to use civil and military instruments ‘outside the territory of the Union for the purposes of peacekeeping, conflict prevention and strengthening international security in accordance with the principles of the UN Charter’. So it's not the UN, but the EU's seas to define whether or not a given action is in line with the UN Charter. On the Finnish side, it has already been indicated that one looks forward to participating in EU operations without a UN mandate. Finland shall participate in the same group as Norway. Ireland, for its part, fears that in practice it will be impossible to obtain a UN mandate in a crisis situation because EU defence ministers in May decided that the response time should be further reduced from ten to five days. The Norwegian military contribution shall be on standby every three years, six months at a time. During that period, the Council of the European Union decides whether and when to take action by the fighting groups. We're going to make a national decision about our participation, which many people have highlighted here today, but as the Central Party sees it, it is and becomes a formality. A veto right in the form of a national decision on participation will be as illusory as the veto right we have in the EEA today and as the majority never dares to use. Before the EEA, the Workers' Party assured them that the veto right had been negotiated for use. Since then, both the Labour Party and the Right have used every opportunity here in the Storting to tell us why it cannot be used, and the same thing is going to happen now. The veto right is theory. To believe that the parties in this room will use the veto right and withdraw our contributions from the military force, which is also pure, which may be in common readiness, and which has joint operational management, is now an illusion. And then we're in the middle of the constitutional confusion. The requirements for cleanness in relation to the Basic Law may not only apply to what is theoretically possible or to what the bulk of the population at any time seems appropriate, but also to what is actually real. A third dimension of this question is that no one knows what this is going to cost Norway in dollars and cents. The Council of State confines itself yesterday to saying that the costs of contributing forces are to be ‘covered in the normal way within the defence budget’, and that the costs of deploying forces in missions ‘will vary’ and ‘cannot be predicted’. It cannot be said more cryptically, as it is already impossible to know what the costs of existing foreign operations are – because they are not specified in the defence budget. The only thing we know is that the Norwegian defence is already in a difficult economic situation, and that the Right seems to have lost control of the economy of the Defense in peacetime. It's not going to be easier for us to assume new commitments through this. There is no doubt about capacity that we should have been selective and stuck to NATO, where we are actually members. The response to global security challenges is not a strengthened EU but a strengthened UN. The United States' lack of willingness to play with the United Nations and enter into joint commitments has been a threat to the global community for a long time. Global common problems require global solutions. In particular, the EU’s focus on building up a defence policy capacity is not constructive. Almost all foreign policy energy is devoted to developing new regional cooperation structures, partly in competition with those that already exist, instead of using them to strengthen global cooperation. It's very unfortunate. The centre party can see no pressing reasons why Norway should say yes to participation in the EU's battlegroups – in an organisation where we are not a member. But above all, the Storting should have at least as much respect for the people's no-membership as it does in Denmark, given the reservations they have actually taken, if not to participate in EU defence cooperation. Therefore, Norway should have been with its Nordic neighbour Denmark and said no to participate in these battlegroups. The Central Party takes note that the continuation of our strength contribution in Afghanistan means that the strength will be expanded and more concentrated in North Afghanistan. The Central Party believes that our participation in Afghanistan is demanding, but we also believe that once we have entered, we must be willing to participate in long-term commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e562	I am not quite sure if the representative Arnstad said that Finland has warned that they will act contrary to international law, or whether she was thinking of a case where the Security Council was unable to make a decision, such as this. was in relation to Kosovo. The Senterpartiet then suggested that Norway contribute forces, in a situation where the Security Council had not been able to make decisions. When it comes to the relationship between the United Nations and the EU, we have earlier been involved in Kofi Annan's positive statement about this. I want to quote Kofi Other, just to make it completely clear. He says: ‘I want there to be no doubt about how important this is to the United Nations. The EU will be able to provide us with specialised capacities that our large troops do not have and you can deploy faster than we do’ – compared to the EU. So the UN and Kofi Annan see this as positive. Finding countries other than Finland and Sweden to cooperate closely with which will have the same view of international law as Norway is difficult, unless the representative Arnstad has made it clear that Finland will act contrary to international law. I guess that's not what was said.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e574	Kofi Annan is very active in this debate, and it must be allowed to do so by sea. I think it is important to remember that Kofi Annan at the same time warns against a development where the EU goes alone. He says, ‘The EU must not weaken its commitment to the traditional ‘blue helmets’ for peacekeeping missions under the auspices of the United Nations.’ Here, the EU has a problem – like Norway. The centre party actually has some sense of the ideas of the Workers' Party that one should rather establish a separate UN force under the Norwegian regime, a force that should be earmarked for the UN. We think this is a constructive and sensible idea that should have been further developed and debated in this Chamber. We have to realize that what Norway can gamble about is limited. We have our obligations in NATO. If we were also going closer to the United Nations, it would create new obligations for us. In addition, one wants to enter into EU cooperation, with the obligations it entails. That's what I think I'm going to lose too much. I believe that Norway should give priority to NATO and continue the debate that the Labour Party has already launched on its own strength, a group, directly linked to the UN. Nor should Norway use resources and capacity that way, rather than spending resources and resources on cooperation and an organisation we are not a member of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e590	In my main speech in this debate, I allowed myself to quote the official message that the then central government sent to all EU Member States and to NATO Member States in 1999. I record that the head of the Central Party and the representative of the Foreign Affairs Committee have not found it worthwhile to be present during this debate – or to participate in it. But as far as I know, Marit Arnstad was also the Council of State in the same government, and that government said at the time that ‘we intend to continue to strengthen our contribution to European and future EU-led crisis operations’. Was the State Council of the Central Party and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at that time unaware of what they were into, or have they just forgotten what they were into?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e599	This is repeated to the boring. When one has no other arguments, repeats one to the boring fact that the Bondevik I government entered an EU-led operation in Macedonia. We have never denied that we were in it. We've never said from the Center Party that we haven't been on it. Obviously, we've been in on it. It is not a problem to participate in individual operations, nor in cooperation with the EU. What is the problem of what is now available, which is enshrined in the new Constitutional Treaty of the European Union, and which was not in place in 1999, is the need to have a standing EU force that can be put into action, with operational management in London with interest-rate military groups in which Norway will provide 150 men and who will be on standby every three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e606	I don't know if it was a wild misunderstanding on the part of the representative Arnstad or a work accident, but I wasn't talking at all about the Macedonia operation and even less about the Bosnia operation, which came later. I spoke about the general message that the Norwegian Government sent to all NATO Member States, where one had a goal far beyond the present agreement, namely that Norway should participate on an equal footing with the Member States in the development of the EU's common foreign and security policy. It must be possible to get an answer as to whether the members of the Central Party of that government knew this and stood behind it, or whether they did not know it. It was, in fact, a goal that was far more binding for Norway in relation to the EU than what we are considering here today. Then it must be allowed to add to this small question as well: if the Central Party considers this to be an unconstitutional policy, and at the same time intends to cooperate with the Workers' Party to administer this policy after the elections, does it mean that it intends to participate in unconstitutional activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e613	Nor should we deny the message of dialogue with the European Union in the field of defence and security policy. What we are considering today, however, is a concrete participation in a fighting group and a power structure enshrined in the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union. A contribution of 150 men with joint operational management is to be ready for the EU. The Central Party believes that this is absolutely unnecessary. We don't have to do that. We're not a member of the organization. We're a member of NATO. We should take care of those obligations. When it comes to the last question of pay, I would have hoped to get it. Yes, I imagine several reasons why this question might come up for debate if we get a new majority. One of them is that I believe that if we get a development with more no to the constitution within the EU than one has already received, it could also affect the discussion on this issue within Norway, at least it should. The other thing is that under the Right Rule, the defense's economy is running low. We have to consider whether we can afford to go into this. There was no reply from the Government in yesterday's presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e623	Now, as was said, I almost have to clarify a very fundamental democratic principle that has a background in what is the case, namely that this is a broad majority of what is now set up in this Chamber. If there's not going to be an earthquake at the election, that's still going to be the case in Stortinget. It is not possible, then, to try to negotiate away from a majority, to force a majority through negotiations. That majority must be allowed to be in this room. That is the way democracy must work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e628	I understand that Igland believes that the bulk of the population is important. He also believes that what is at all times in line with the Constitution is determined by who is at all times the bulk of the population. He said that in his article. So I have pointed out from the centre party – and the centre party insists – that we are looking at several occasions where this issue can come up for further debate. One is if the defense's economy continues to be as bad as it has become during Right Government. Then we need to have a discussion about whether we actually have resources to use on this kind of assignment, especially because we have not got any idea of what the costs might be today. Secondly, we cannot ignore developments within the EU where more people may be in doubt or actually say no to the Constitutional Treaty. It may also affect the development of common defence and security policy cooperation. Thorbjørn Jagland would like to speak on behalf of the Workers' Party, but he cannot take away its views on this issue from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e636	I have to admit that my ears were quite long when the representative Arnstad was in the custody of the Norwegian reservation court in relation to participating in a concrete operation in the Nordic context, in the EU force. It was well said that she doubted that you had wide enough back to carry the load it would be taking an independent stand to refrain from participating in a given situation, if you thought it was wrong. I think that's a rather dramatic statement, which testifies to the fact that you don't have the confidence that the Storting is capable of caring for the country's best interests. Did I misunderstand Arnstad there?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e641	I argued that it is the Council of the European Union that formally takes the decision on participation. Then it's said by the Government that we're going nationally to make a maritime decision. Yeah, we've heard that before. We heard that in connection with the so-called veto right in the EEA. It's never been used. The Labour Party and the Right have said every day since 1992 that we cannot use that veto right, sail if they negotiated it. So I'm saying that I think the veto is going to be pure theory. And as I know the Working Party and the Right in relation to the EEA, this will continue to be pure theory. I have no faith that those parties will actually make a reservation on the day it becomes applicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e646	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e649	Let me first just point out the last main post: once the centre party has now changed its side, it is interesting that they will bring SV into the government offices to get more resources into the defense. The Minister of Defence gave us a thorough and good account, and I join the main lines of it. The Minister of Defence's statement of developments is in the direction of increasing responsibility for security in their own country by the Afghans. That is the result of the systematic training of Afghan military security forces and police forces in the last two years. One of the main challenges facing President Karzai and his government today is to strengthen central government authority and control in the provinces. This is a prerequisite for reducing the power of local warlords and for succeeding in combating the increase in drug production. The Left agrees with the assessment that continued active support and participation of the international community is a prerequisite for the success of achieving lasting stability in Afghanistan. It is therefore important that allied countries follow up NATO decisions by contributing to the presence of ISAF in the provinces. Against this background, the Left is behind the Government to adjust our future presence in Afghanistan by concentrating our forces in the north. Norway will thus contribute directly to the stability of the northern region together with several other allies and Nordic countries, including Norway. Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden. The establishment of the EU forces is intended to maintain or restore peace and security. For the Left, it has always been important to attach great importance to further developing and strengthening international law and the role of the United Nations, among others. by contributing to the strengthening of the United Nations’ capacity for crisis management. I'll come back to how it relates. For the Left, it is also an important point that Norway has been invited by our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland to participate in a common Nordic effort force. Norwegian participation in a Nordic effort force will lead to the continuation of traditional Nordic cooperation on peace operations. Several key NATO allies have also invited Norway to participate in the EU effort force. It is important that we in Norway can help to work to create more stability in the world. By showing the will and ability to contribute to that kind of cooperation, we also strengthen our own role and importance internationally. For the Left, it is also important for Norway to retain full national decision-making authority as regards the operations in which Norwegian forces are to participate. Consequently, it will not be a question of transferring neither formal nor real decision-making authority nor military efforts to an organisation of which we are not a member. In order to carry out operations, unanimity is also required in the Council of the European Union. It will be an indispensable condition for participation that operations are firmly anchored in international law. The Minister of Defence gave us assurances that these matters are well taken care of, and the Left supports the Government's decision to participate. So some comments on the debate. For the Left, respect for the no of the people is important. The left no and my no is also an international no. There's obviously something different than what anybody else in the room here stands for. My No and the No of the Left are primarily based on the fact that we want to participate internationally, that we want to be involved in peacekeeping operations and in operations that can ensure peace in the regions. It is interesting to have this debate, especially relating to Afghanistan, because what Afghanistan has taught us is that the blue berry is no longer enough as protection. Afghanistan was, above all, different from all other operations in that we saw attacks on UN forces in a completely different way from what we have seen in the past. What happened during the Afghanistan operation is a whole new trend in international policy. That means that we must actually support the UN, we must support all the UN measures, but we must also be willing to join with other countries in order to ensure peace in countries where there is not only peacekeeping, but where there is also talk of entering into and ensuring peace in appropriate situations. This means that Norway must not only be willing to put on the blue bet, but must be willing to join with other countries to go in and help with peace building in countries such as the United States. Afghanistan. As far as the right of veto is concerned, it is clear that we have not used that much in relation to the EEA Regulation. I think the left would have liked to have used it in some contexts. But it's also clear that what we do when we make international student exchange agreements is quite different from what we do when we say in this room that we are willing to sacrifice Norwegian lives to ensure peace in another country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e674	It is not always the Minister of Defence who gets praise from this chair, but in this round I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough, good and informative presentation, and also refer to what Mr Jagland said about the same. The statement confirms that Afghanistan is our main field of action for international operations. This is reinforced by Norway also providing substantial assistance and humanitarian aid to the country. This is, of course, in addition to the fact that several non-governmental organisations operate in Afghanistan, often together with the UN apparatus, which is well organised in the country on the aid and aid side. The Defence Committee visited Afghanistan at the beginning of March 2005. I would like to thank you from this pulpit to the Defense and the ISAF forces, who made sure that we were not just on patrol in Kabul and visited firemen at the airport and police officers at the police academy, but that we were able to go up to Meymaneh, which is located northwest of the country, near the border with Turkmenistan, also with the security situation we have in Afghanistan. I therefore think it is very nice that from 1 September 2005 we take over the management from the British in Meymaneh and increase our presence here to approx. 50 people. My impression of the ISAF strengths in width is primarily that they are needed. ISAF is doing a good job in Afghanistan on behalf of the UN. They are not just UN mandated, this is an operation carried out on behalf of the United Nations, which contributes to stability in the country. The Afghans are tired of war and greatly appreciate the presence of the stabilisation and police forces. Shops and trade are flourishing – it was perhaps the greatest surprise for me. There was actually as much activity in Meymaneh as in Kabul. In Kabul, an increasing number of women now go without a jar. But that doesn't mean that the women's oppression is over. Organisations told us about a society with extreme violence against women, and it was hard to get the message a few weeks ago about the first woman who had been stoned after the fall of the Taliban. I also assume that the Norwegian authorities make it quite clear that the persons responsible must be imprisoned and brought to justice. We contribute a lot of money from Norway to Afghanistan. I believe the Council of State is right in that it is a prerequisite to succeed in achieving lasting stability in Afghanistan that there is still active support and participation from the international community, and that it is important that allied countries follow up NATO's decisions by contributing to the presence of ISAF in the provinces, not just in Kabul. I have noticed that the Government will make an adjustment to our future strength contribution in Afghanistan by concentrating our forces in the North Region. A Quick Reaction Force, experts are being evaluated to clear explosives, logistics personnel and staff officers. My impression is that the Norwegian force that has been in Afghanistan for the last six months has worked well. It was picked out in a special way, because our trained forces were otherwise bound up, among other things. NATO Response Force. This underlines, and let me make it quite clear, that we have limited capacity in terms of robust forces for peacekeeping operations. I would like to point out that we decided to increase the number of recruits for foreign service during the treatment of the long-term defence plan for 2005-2008. Otherwise, the Telemark Battalion should reach Afghanistan from the summer of. Thorbjørn Jagland, on behalf of the Workers' Party, has given a thorough assessment of the Nordic-Baltic intervention force to be put at the disposal of the EU Battle Group. So let me just comment on a couple of points. One is that the development of EU forces takes place in cooperation with NATO and the United Nations. The EU establishes capacity for peacekeeping, peace-building and crisis management. In many ways, EU intervention forces mark a positive development in opportunities to promote international peace and security. This is something we should contribute to. Several speakers have quoted the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who has welcomed the initiative. I will not repeat this quote, but will nevertheless stress that he has actually made it quite clear that there should be no doubt about how important this is for the United Nations. What has the EU actually marked? They have indicated that Africa will be a current strength response once it is set up – a strength that can provide robustness in the presence of the UN forces in countries such as Sudan and Uganda. Such countries are going to be many of them, and we are also going to increase our participation in those UN forces. The new capacities of the EU will strengthen the possibility of rapid response if a precarious humanitarian situation arises, characterised by severe suffering for the civilian population. With great interest I have also noticed that the Constitution § 25 does not prevent Norwegian forces from participating in collective military activities under the direction of other countries or international organisations. We actually started with this already at our participation in the German Brigade at the end of the 1940s. The German Brigade was a multinational force, in which we were partly under British command and partly under other command. This means that we have a safe anchoring in Norwegian state practice. I would also like to join in what Mr. Jagland said in a reply to Mr. Marit Arnstad about the decision taken here. To Bjørn Jacobsen: I believe that Bjørn Jacobsen said something in the direction of a strong militarization and upgrading in Europe right now. I think it may be a very exaggerated indication of the actual situation in terms of the development of defence in the various EU countries. Indeed, Europe as a whole is transforming and building up its defences, from heavy invasion units to small, robust units. There is at least no militarization we see in Europe at the moment. Finally, let me say a little bit about the third theme of the State Council’s presentation — American, advanced pre-storage in Norway. After the end of the Cold War, for several governments, it has been an important objective to ensure further pre-storage in Norway. Former Minister of Defence Jørgen Kosmo negotiated a new agreement to maintain a significant American presence in the form of more advanced pre-storage. Norway has lost a good deal of NATO infrastructure in recent years, including: as a result of new command structure in the alliance. It is therefore very important that there is now an agreement on a revision of the US pre-storage, adapted to future security challenges. The material currently stored in several locations in Norway, which is also already stored, will support both defence and NATO missions – let me add it. In the light of previous debates, it is also essential that the Norwegian authorities have an influence on which material can be stored. The stocks shall have Norwegian crew and shall be under daily Norwegian control and supervision, and it shall be the responsibility of the Norwegian defence. Fairly enough, the main component of pre-storage is a revised Marine Corps Prepositioning Program Norway. The Marine Corps shall be capable of being used for peace operations, humanitarian aid, disaster assistance, terrorist attacks and evacuation operations. I am not quite sure if I understood Bjørn Jacobsen in a line so that he was actually opposed to this pre-storage. I would like to point out a matter that is currently in our committee, namely the crisis that arose in connection with the flood disaster in South Asia. I actually think that in such situations, with a quick call-out, this kind of pre-storage could also be used, because you have to go out and get out and do something. The predecessor of the Marine Corps has led to major exercises in Norway, which I also assume will continue, because this is also important for the combination that our forces have, and it is important for us to have this equipment tested. At five airstations in Norway, we have had pre-storage equipment in Collocated Operating Bases. I take note that stocks are now being streamlined and concentrated to Bodø and Sola. I have also noticed that the storage of material for a field hospital will be substantially changed. That's the way it is, with the changes in defence policy. Finally, transatlantic cooperation is and will become important for Norway. I am therefore pleased that a revised pre-storage concept has been agreed. In fact, the government should be very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e714	Like my committee colleagues Åse Wisløff Nilssen and Marit Nybakk, I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for the presentation yesterday. I also join until the end of Marit Nybakk's posts, with a very well-deserved compliment – on a rather general basis – to the Government. We appreciate that. Just as we have seen an increasing globalisation of the economy over the last few decades, so since the terrorist attacks against the United States, we have seen a similar globalisation of security and defence policy. The main implication of this is that there is no longer any national security perspective. Security, having shown us the last few years, can only be developed in cooperation with others through the establishment of collective instruments. The European Security Strategy adopted by the EU in December 2003 is just talking about effective multilateralism. This is not least important in a situation where geographical distance means less than before. NATO has shown a considerable capacity and willingness to reform in recent years. The objective of this transition has been clear: to make transatlantic cooperation relevant to the new safety challenges. It is, as is well known, asymmetrical challenges characterised by international terrorism and the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Preventing civil war, coup d'état and the spread of regional conflicts is an essential objective. We now see that NATO has contributed to a more peaceful development in the Balkans. The Balkans was the first major test for the alliance after the end of the Cold War. In the 1990s, the overall problem was how should NATO contribute to peace and collective security in the Euro-Atlantic region? In fact, through active involvement in the Balkans, through NATO enlargement, through Partnership for Peace, through the EAPC, the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council, and through cooperation with Russia and Ukraine, NATO has made a major contribution to establishing a European peace settlement, such as: former German Chancellor Willy Brandt mentioned it. Early in the 21st century, the challenges are greater. Today, we are going to contribute to peace and collective security at the global level. In this context, support for the UN is of great importance, so that the World Organisation is prepared to address today’s and tomorrow’s major challenges. In such a perspective, NATO’s involvement through ISAF in Afghanistan does not become the least strange. The main challenge for NATO through ISAF will be to contribute to long-term stability development and state and national construction in the country. It was just to be lacking that Norway was not to make an active commitment to Afghanistan. Contributing to peace and reconciliation in this country will be a significant lacmus test for NATO in terms of its real ability to address the challenges beyond the Euro-Atlantic region. We know that this exposure is long-term. Today, the challenge for NATO is to contribute to greater control of the country by central government in Kabul. Through the so-called Provincial Reconstruction Teams, the situation in the provinces should be brought under control. The fact that Norway is managed by one of these PRTs is particularly gratifying, as Marit Nybakk said in his speech. One of the challenges in this way is how to limit the production and export of drugs, especially heroin, in this country. On 31 May of this year, ISAF decided to strengthen its presence in western Afghanistan. ISAF has taken command of two more PRTs, in the provinces of Herat and Farah, and a so-called Forward Support Base in Herat. Later this summer, two more PRTs will be established, one in Chagcharan, the capital of Ghor Province, and one in Qal’eh, the capital of Baghdis Province. Again, these measures will strengthen NATO’s ability to assist the Afghan government to make it safer. In addition, several troops will be sent to the country from NATO in connection with the forthcoming parliamentary elections, which are scheduled to take place in September. In addition, NATO is planning to send troops to South Afghanistan later this year. The aim of this so-called expansion of NATO's operations in Afghanistan is to strengthen the sovereignty of the Afghan government, so that it gradually gains full control of the country. In addition, of course, it is an objective that Afghanistan should become a democratic country that fully respects human rights. Steining is not a means that we want to support. I agree with what Marit Nybakk said, that the Norwegian government in very clear order expresses what it believes about that kind of activity – if that is the word for it. As Western society sees it, it has become a normative duty to contribute to peace and reconciliation elsewhere in the world where values such as pluralism, democracy and respect for human rights are maintained. A norm-driven international order based on the principles of the UN Charter is vital in this context. In this context, I would also like to take the opportunity to underline the important link between regional organisations and the United Nations. While the UN will be able to legitimise regional organisations such as NATO, NATO will, for its part, help to make the UN more effective. In other words, we see an interaction between legitimacy and efficiency, which I would like to highlight – sometimes it has been absent in the public Norwegian debate and in the defence and security policy. This is also the background to the fact that there is no longer any contradiction between defence of their own territory and contributions to international efforts, even though some try to construct such a contradiction. The aim of the Norwegian defence conversion has just been to transform the defence into an effective and credible instrument for the service of the vital interests of the Norwegian state, whether it is in Norway’s geographical areas or it is in areas that are geographically far away from us. The key words here include: flexibility and mobility, where we are making full use of the so-called revolution in military matters, with the widespread use of high technology. The development and application of precision-guided weapons is a necessary element in this. Taking these factors into account, we also need to look at and assess the US pre-storage situation in Norway. Through the Cold War, the United States had a unique position as the main guarantor of Norway’s security and freedom. Cooperation included strengthening obligations towards Norway in crisis and war, exercise and training activities, pre-stored US material, intelligence cooperation and cooperation on defence material. This has been closely linked to the strategic interest of the United States in Norway's neighbourhoods in the light of the threat represented by the military power of the Soviet Union to NATO. The United States has been Norway's security and defence anchor party for the rest of the post-war period. That will also be the case in the foreseeable future. In order to maintain the interest of the United States in a close security policy relationship with Norway, it is important that Norway shows its relevance as an ally in a new era. Today's change of defence must also be assessed in this light. This requires, on the one hand, a continued demonstrated willingness to uphold its own defence and sovereignty. On the other hand, it requires willingness to give priority to efforts in relation to the joint tasks of the Alliance, through relevant and functional military capabilities and forces that can be deployed flexibly in international operations. Against this background, it is also of great importance that the Norwegian migration process be assessed against and understood in the light of the major migration processes currently taking place in NATO. American forces have long traditions of practicing in Norway. Over the past decades, allied exercises have been regularly carried out in Norway, where American forces have played a significant role throughout the years. It is important that exercise activity in Norway — which is unique and often taking place under extreme climatic conditions — is continued to a significant extent. The US military commitments to Norway constitute an important dimension of Norwegian security and defence policy. The quality and volume of pre-storage of US military equipment and bilateral reinforcement agreements will continue to be an indicator of the credibility of the US-Norway security and defence policy link through the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e744	I think I can say I have the property that I can give praise when there's reason to give praise, and then I give a glimpse when there's reason to give a sign. This time, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Defence. I think she has made a good and transparent statement. Afghanistan has been Norway’s main military field outside the last few years, and the Progress Party supports this priority. Through our contributions to ISAF, we actively support NATO's commitment. The Norwegian contributions are relatively limited, but nevertheless important. The nature and size of the contributions I believe fit the Norwegian defence. That we are increasing the contribution to a certain extent, I believe it is uncomplicated. The situation in Afghanistan is now relatively calm but unstable. It underpins the need for a presence of military forces and police. In November 2004, the Minister of Defence explained the conclusion of cooperation with Sweden and Finland on the establishment of an EU response force. This is now starting to take shape. Recently, Estonia has also joined the cooperation, which I think is positive. However, questions were raised about our participation in such strength. Among other things, questions raised during the verification by the Norwegian side on how the Norwegian team could be used in any operation. However, it is clear through legislation, as explained by the Minister of Defence, that neither a real nor a formal transfer of any decision-making authority on the deployment of Norwegian forces, either to the EU or NATO, has taken place. The assessment shall be made nationally and the decision to participate in an operation shall be made on an independent basis. This is the natural, right and important thing to underline, and I would like to do that. There is, however, a catch by this. In NATO, there is some frustration over so-called self-imposed restrictions on the forces of some nations in Iraq and Afghanistan. It has been shown that national quotas have been ordered out in mandates with self-imposed restrictions, resulting in the failure of the command to know exactly what resources he had for what purposes. If several national forces in an acute situation had the same attitude, the situation would be completely impossible — even dangerous. However, the Progress Party is satisfied that the contribution to the reaction forces is covered in the budgets in a normal manner and that what cannot be foreseen is covered by additional appropriations, if any. It is now pointed out earlier here that costs are not clear and the overview of foreign operations is not clear, one might say that this is rather unclear on the contrary. There's reason to be aware of these things. The participation of Norwegian forces enables the forces to further develop their capacity to interact with the forces of other nations, which is positive for NATO. It is also important that the EU concept of effort forces is complementary and not competitive in relation to NATO. In the NATO concept, there are resources that the EU can use. This is important, not least financially. The US pre-storage of military material in Norway has for many years been evidence of American will and ability to contribute to the defence of Norway. We are showing here that we want close security and defence cooperation with the United States. The agreement that makes this possible is now mature for revision, as the framework conditions have now been substantially changed. The Progress Party considers it very important to ensure further pre-storage in Norway, adapted to relevant tasks for Norway, the United States and NATO. It's very important, as the Progress Party sees it, to maintain American presence in the form of pre-storage. The Progress Party is very positive that the revision can now be agreed. Of course, the fact that storage does not involve additional costs for an already pressed defence, and that Norwegian authorities have a strong influence on material and storage is correct and positive. Finally, I just want to say that I think it is both gratifying and important that the US Secretary of Defense is visiting Norway these days, not least in order to ratify the pre-storage agreement. It's been many, many years since we had a visit by an American defence minister on Norwegian soil. There's something that's been bothering me a lot, and it's that for a long, long time NATO has seen a lot southwards, and in a way has forgotten the northern areas. The northern regions are very important for Norway now, and I believe that both the United States and NATO also see that Norway's role in this is so important that they must also participate. So this might be the first signal that the United States now sees that they also have to participate more on the northern front.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e767	I will concentrate mainly on the situation in Afghanistan and pre-storage, but I will first address the issue of the EU response forces. There is reason to note that the Minister of Defence, and many others in the Chamber today, are quite creative in the description when it comes to producing participation in the EU intervention forces as participation in a Nordic effort force that is mainly to solve UN mission missions by Kofi Annan, and that Norway can draw these forces in and out of possible operations at its own discretion. It's not like that. This is, together with the cooperation agreement with the European Defence Agency, the EDA, and the other initiatives for a common defence and foreign policy in the EU, a long step forward into an integrated defence cooperation within an organisation that the Norwegian people have twice said that we should not be in, and on the road towards a superstate that central parts of Europe do not want and that Norway is not serving. The majority of the House here know well that this is not about Nordic crime, but about support for the EU's defence and security policy and therefore also legitimacy for that development. That's what this is all about. Of course, we can veto or not contribute if there is a situation that we do not want to contribute to. But it will not be that easy at the moment the situation has arisen, when the pressure from the Council of the European Union is there, when the need for action is present and the strength is all right, even if we can say no in theory. It will create considerable difficulties. Everyone understands that. This is one of the reasons why Norway should not be part of this intervention force. Pre-storage in Norway of American munitions of war has been in progress for 25 years. SV has been against this pre-storage for 25 years, and we are still. That is why we are not as excited as the Minister of Defence that there is now an agreement on a revision of the US pre-storage in Norway that is adapted to the challenges of the future for Norwegian, American and Allied security. It's been a long time since the cold war ended and the danger of invasion from the east was blown off. It was in many ways that dimensioned the Norwegian defence, which has been the reason for the pre-storage. Thus, despite this, a lot of equipment has been stored for a long time afterwards, without intention. It would have been good for us to end this storage now, but we note that it has been important for the Government to find new reasons for continuing the pre-storage of material. And what are these reasons? According to the media, large quantities of this equipment have been used during the Iraq war. These stocks now appear as the forward stocks they are in fact, in order to simplify the logistics of the U.S. warfare far from their own territory. The question is therefore whether it strengthens Norwegian security. There's reason to ask that question. Does it strengthen Norwegian security to store a lot of American material in Norway, in a situation where there is no significant invasion hazard, but where this storage obviously has a different function? The answer is no, it does not strengthen Norwegian security. The situation in Afghanistan is complicated and stability is fragile. There is a combination of many factors that have created this over a long period of time, not just as a result of events in recent years, but as a result of events in centuries. Norway has done an important job in ISAF, but should not be part of the US warfare through the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation. It has not simplified the possibility of peace in Afghanistan in the long term. People in Afghanistan are tired of war, they want peace. They want to cultivate the earth and create a future. Norway is obliged in such a situation to assess on an independent basis what we can contribute in Afghanistan to contribute to long-term peace. What Afghanistan needs is the same thing as all the well-functioning countries have, a functioning democracy, a state that can dispose of a substantial part of its economy, a business, school, police, justice, etc. – a country that treats all with dignity. Most of this is missing in Afghanistan, and this is where the effort now needs to be deployed. Here Norway could play a slightly larger role than what we do, even though we contribute to some of these areas. The SV have supported Norway's participation in ISAF and believe that Norway has made a good effort, and experience with soldiers who are entitled to protection or, at least, from protection obligations in a relatively near past is good. There has been a long talk about extending the stabilisation laws in Afghanistan, and Norway already has some soldiers in the northeast. For SV, it is important that Norway does not contribute to weakening the humanitarian space in Afghanistan, as we have explained many times earlier, and I assume that this is the situation when we contribute to those stabilisation laws. Finally, Norway should increase civil efforts in Afghanistan to contribute to the construction of a judiciary and increase efforts to replace a drug economy with alternative means of income. These are priorities that are more important than sending 50 new specialties to the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, which we have debated earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e784	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a number of good contributions, and also to thank you for your broad support for what is government policy. With regard to the expansion in northern Afghanistan, to invest relatively more in the PRTs in relation to the capital Kabul, I note that no one has expressed itself contrary to such ambition. In the case of pre-storers, I have registered that SV is critical, but otherwise I see this debate as very supportive of the work that has been done to reach a renegotiated agreement with the United States, and I think, of course, that support is very happy. Of course, I very much welcome the fact that both the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Advance Party and most parties here in the Chamber, apart from the SV and the Central Party, have also given clear support to the Nordic fighting group in the EU. I would like to stress that in these areas Norway contributes to achieving a number of important objectives. I fully agree with what the Progress Party had to say about the stockpiles in Norway, about having stocks in Norway and using them actively also in relation to exercises and training in Norway, also helps to maintain focus in the Nordic regions, in the Norwegian North regions. We can't get past the fact that the United States is our most important and largest ally, and facilitating close integrated cooperation with the United States military is important for a small nation, and especially for a small nation that has the challenges in the north that we'll have in the years to come. Another point raised in relation to the EU battlegroups and participation in such a group has been that it can also increase Europe’s interest in the Nordic countries and in the Nordic regions. I would also like to stress that in the last major exercises we have had in Norway, there have been important contributions from the Nordic countries as well as from our important European allies, which are the same allies as we have both in NATO and as EU members. Most of them have been affected quite thoroughly with regard to the EU and the battlegroups. I would particularly like to thank the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland, for clearly stating that this is a development supported by the United Nations, and this is a type of resource that the United Nations has asked for. There are several who have been in the Secretary-General's report from previous years, saying very clearly that the world community's need for peacekeeping is greater than the capacity of any organization. That is, we need more military resources that can be used for peacekeeping, not fewer. Furthermore, the Kofi Annan report of 15 December 2004 states that it is therefore necessary to establish operational cooperation between the UN and regional and sub-regional organisations currently operating peacekeeping activities. I am also pleased that it has been so clearly stated by several people that Finland obviously has no view of the agreement we have concluded other than what Norway has. The text of the Agreement is quite clear that operations for such a Nordic battlegroup shall be based on international law. But here, too, there has been a useful clarification from many, that it is not just a decision of the UN Security Council that gives such a clear anchor in international law. Of course, Finland has no ambitions to enter into operations without international legal anchoring. I would also like to stress what others have been about, that I see it as very unlikely that we should get into a situation where our Nordic neighbouring countries, with common values and shared ambitions to contribute constructively to peace in the world, would want to engage in a cross-border operation. I think it is a very hypothetical case, and that is also one of the reasons why it was important that we chose the Nordic countries just now, when this is how we would also help to enable the EU to contribute to peace negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e802	I just want to ask the Minister for Defence how she views this with the EU's defence ambitions. Does the Minister for Defence think that they should be realised through NATO, given the enormous costs involved in material matters? I think, among other things: that the United States has a defence budget of over $400 billion and has just increased the budget by another $80 billion. The United States is willing to use its materials in the context of NATO and in this way may also contribute to its use by the EU. Does the Minister of Defense think that this is a good idea, and is this something she might be following up on?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e808	I think here I would point to the post of Morten Höglund, which made it clear that we have to relate to the actual reality. The reality is that the EU has chosen to establish close cooperation in defence policy and that the EU has chosen to have defence policy ambitions. When that is the starting point and the reality, I also fully agree with Morten Höglund that then we have to deal with this reality and that these EU battlegroups are a good example of things that we should work with the European Union on. But of course, what I also agree with the representative, Width, is that you have to avoid building up competing structures and thus using resources in a non-effective way. It is important that the EU and NATO become complementary organisations. Just as 19 EU countries are also NATO countries, I am confident that this will be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e815	There is now a argument here that the US pre-stocking is important to increase interest from other nations — or from the United States — in the north. But everyone in this room knows enough that this isn't about it. It is about being able to store equipment and materials safely in facilities with good infrastructure and a high level of safety in places that are strategically wise in relation to future needs. It's about what the United States thinks is profitable. The question is, how does American storage affect our security, and in what way is the storage profitable for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e822	In a given situation where Norway should need rescue from our allies, time will be an important factor. The fact that pre-storage equipment is actually available in Norway for use in such a rescue situation is crucial. It's quite right, as many people have said, that it's no longer the same threat of invasion from the east. However, there are other threats that the Defence in Norway should be able to face — sometimes alone, sometimes with assistance from allies. But if our allies are to be able to come to our rescue, it's also another prerequisite, namely that we've actually trained and practiced together in our northern regions. It'll also be easier and cheaper for our allies if there's pre-stored material here. The last is that we also have an ambition as a member of NATO and as a strong supporter of the UN to be able to help globally. The advanced, stored equipment can also be used globally, and Marit Nybakk himself was involved in examples such as the tsunami disaster or a NATO operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e831	More people, including the Minister of Defence, have said today that the United Nations is so pleased with this. Tala's speech when it comes to strength is that ten years ago we had 1,500 men with blue helmets. Marit Nybakk of the Labour Party has proposed that we should set up own troops in Norway, just to follow up what the United Nations needs, and that Norway should also go to the United Nations in practice, not just say that one supports the United Nations. In the OECD's DAC committee, the sitting government is working hard – a great deal of praise to the Minister for Development – to ensure that what is provided is not watered down. The funds allocated for assistance shall also be used for assistance. Does the Minister of Defence see that there can be a loss of funds for development policy when, in my opinion, we have a militarization that will lead to increased expenditure?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e840	I do not see in any way any commitment to Norwegian defence and to Norway's ability to assist in operations outside as opposed to Norwegian traditional development assistance. On the contrary, I would say that both of these ways of assisting a country are important, and they complement each other. We see that in Afghanistan. It is very important to develop both infrastructure and other types of civil institutions in parallel with the military presence. That is a reason why there are fewer forces directly under UN leadership. This is the reason the Secretary-General of the United Nations takes note of when, in his report of 15 December 2004, he makes it clear that we need more forces in regional organisations that can work with the UN mandate, because in many cases the UN will have neither the capacity nor the ability to lead the kind of complex organisations. Therefore, it is not asked which operation is being carried out by the United Nations itself. What is important is that the mandate is clear and that the use of NATO and the EU can also support the UN's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e847	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e850	I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for a good and thorough presentation. The theme that is very important both for our defence policy and for our entire foreign policy. As far as pre-storers are concerned, they have played a very important role in Norway, also symbolically, as a concrete demonstration of the ability and willingness of the United States to contribute to the defence of Norway. It is therefore positive that we continue to have a significant American presence in the form of US pre-storers in Norway. It is a sensible strategy to revise the pre-storage agreement and programmes. Although stocks have an important symbolic effect, the actual function is most important, and it must be adapted to the security policy challenges we face today. As far as our efforts in Afghanistan are concerned, I will discuss this in the debate on cooperation in NATO in 2004 later today. I would like to say that I am pleased that the development is moving towards the fact that the Afghans themselves are taking greater responsibility for security, and I support the adjustment of our strength contribution to the north of Afghanistan. However, in my presentation I would have liked to see a closer look at the challenges of cooperation between military forces and humanitarian organisations. Our presence in Meymaneh is to be extended and, in the enlarged contribution, it is planned that an aid adviser and a police adviser should participate. This is an important measure, but it just shows the close link between military and humanitarian, and there are some challenges here. It is not the case that aid organisations have a monopoly on humanitarian work, and in certain situations the military must contribute to civil action for the benefit of the local population. This is the situation in parts of Afghanistan. In some conflicts, it is impossible to perform humanitarian tasks without the assistance of the military. On the other hand, we should generally be cautious about using military forces to carry out humanitarian tasks. Both make an effort towards the common goal, which is peace and development. But we have to be conscious of the distance between the different actors, and who plays what roles. We need interaction, and we need distance. The emergence of complex humanitarian crises in recent years has made it necessary to rethink the relationship between military forces and non-governmental humanitarian organisations. We therefore need a thorough assessment of the relationship between the military and the humanitarian, voluntary organisations. I think it is desirable for both defence and voluntary organisations, because both parties see challenges as the situation has developed. We need constructive debates and arenas where one can reflect on these challenges, in order to ensure better interaction in practice. There is today a very fragile border between crisis, conflict and peace. I mention Iraq as an example. Military forces do not primarily solve the long-term problems in an area but can facilitate a political solution. As mentioned earlier in the debate, long-term positive developments need to focus on the causes of the problems. It requires political, economic, diplomatic, legal and other instruments. Military power is usually only relevant when other instruments are not involved. War may be won by military means, but peace is won only by investing in a broader field. Preventing the development of violent conflicts, helping to create conditions for a peaceful solution, and then ensuring stable peace, are complex processes. In order to support peace processes and building, we need to have a strategic and coordinated use of several instruments, including: development policy, humanitarian, political and security. Contributing to the prevention and resolution of conflicts saves people from severe suffering and is more efficient use of resources than repairing the damage. In order to create lasting peace, we also need to participate in reconciliation processes. Norway must continue its work as a peace nation, including: by facilitating peace negotiations in areas where we have competence and opportunity. Our comprehensive contribution to peace and reconciliation is also a contribution to solving the world's common challenges. One important lesson we have from working in peace processes is that we need to focus on democracy and human rights. Religion has increasingly become a theme of international policy in recent years. Instead of viewing religion as a source of conflict, religious dialogue should seek to find out and focus more on what is common to faith and values, so that it can contribute to conflict solutions and create reconciliation. We must create greater understanding between peoples, and prevent religion from being misused to mobilize forces that are working against tolerance and peace. I believe that without dialogue, war and terror will continue. Dialogue provides a basis for understanding and understanding increases tolerance and respect for one another. Only then are the prerequisites for peaceful coexistence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e873	In particular, I have noticed something that NATO's former Secretary-General said before the actions in Kosovo. Robertson then needed approx. 40,000 men and women in uniform. It wasn't easy to do, said Robertson, despite the fact that Europe had nearly 2 million people in the defense. This shows that the old invasion defence was not clear for international tasks. In recent years, Norway has been very proud of the rapid and effective modernisation of the defence implemented. The Minister of Defence explained that Norway has offered capacity to the EU intervention force in transport management and sanitation, and that these contributions are in addition to staff staff in management functions. The contribution concerned constitutes a framework of up to 150 persons. I think we should be so honest to say that the previous structure of Norwegian defence did not differ significantly from the Europeans. Nor has our defence traditionally been the most operational. The reason was that we waited and prepared for an attack that did not come – fortunately. It is therefore very gratifying that the contributions now made by the Defence Agency to the EU intervention forces can be taken from the structure to which the Stortinget has already joined. Yesterday, the Council of State stressed that Norway is in the process of increasing its share of exploitable forces and that these forces can be deployed quickly both nationally and abroad. I would like to stress that it may seem to be outsiders that Norway has soldiers in abundance, since we can contribute to reaction forces like the NATO Response Force and the Nordic intervention force. To a certain extent, these are 'Torden Shield soldiers', and this is the case across Europe. Strengths that in one situation may wear one military headgear may wear another headgear in the next situation. So we're reporting the same forces to several different international forces. In this work, it is very important not to develop overlapping structures and strengths. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the EU and NATO do not engage in unnecessary duplication. It is gratifying that the Norwegian defence can actually assume international obligations of this kind. The Council of State then also stressed that Norwegian participation in the EU intervention forces does not have an impact on the organisation of our defence structure and its capacities. Not all Nordic countries are part of the Nordic EU intervention force. Denmark is a country that has reserved itself from participation in EU defence cooperation. Personally, I would like Denmark to be involved, because it is the EU's dynamic work in the field of defence policy that has been the engine of European security development in recent years. It may appear that Europe is increasingly talking together in defence matters in the EU, in order to promote the same points of view in NATO bodies. I would call that a political challenge for a small NATO country, which is referred to the EU press conferences to find out what is happening. Participation in the EU response force may also be a contribution to remedy this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e893	There have been many entries about the EU on newscasts in the last few days. Not all entries have drawn up Norway's relationship with the European Union; nor have they focused on the political developments in the EU, a development which Norway unfortunately cannot, in my opinion, significantly affect. But something can affect Norwegian governance, and one of the areas, such as the area. Norway’s participation in a Nordic EU intervention force is a field in which the Stortinget decides. We live in a peaceful corner of Europe, but the world is not without political challenges. Some of the international challenges themselves have an element of military character, because the situation without the use of military forces could develop into something much worse. This is something that has taken up the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, and I am pleased that yesterday's Minister of Defence has given great attention to the UN's view of the EU's response forces, because it is a fact that there is a lack of military forces that can quickly be deployed if necessary. This was something Kofi Annan pointed out in his report to the UN General Assembly on March 21. It's actually just at this point military forces can make an important element in making the world a better place. In the report mentioned, Annan points out that the EU will be an important complement to the UN's work in the field of peacekeeping. In Norwegian foreign policy, the UN is also important in another field, and it is a basis for the identification of Norwegian military foreign operations. I have noticed that this is also a good reason in the opening of the defence minister yesterday. The use of the EU intervention forces can be legitimised in three ways: the anchoring of international law through a mandate from the UN Security Council, the anchoring of international law through the consent of the parties or the anchoring of international law through the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the UN Charter. Norway's relationship with Europe is complex. Nevertheless, there is a very unfortunate development on the political environment in all issues that can be related to Europe and the EU, dividing by classic yes-no patterns. This prevents us from reaching the real purpose of some things. In this case, the intention is to contribute to solving policy challenges that cannot be solved by word alone. I am pleased that the Labour Party’s national meeting – with overwhelming plurality – voted on a proposal that was based on non-Norwegian participation in the EU’s intervention forces. The Nordic cooperation in this matter is very positive and almost reason enough to join. Most of our European allies also participated in these forces, and it is worth noting that one of the reasons why so many NATO countries want to participate is that participation contributes to the further development of the military capacity to operate together. That Norwegian military can interact with our allies is also important for NATO to function as a military organisation. I think a well-functioning NATO is so absolute in our interest, not least in the light of the developments that we see in our northern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e908	It goes towards the end of this debate, and I asked for the floor to point out some issues that I think have crystallized and which are politically important. We have had a long tradition in Norway – in fact, all the time after the Second World War – for a very broad cross-political consensus in the United Kingdom on the main lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy. It is a pleasure to note that this is still the case. But at the same time, we are in a split new situation because we are on our way into a campaign where, for the first time, an alternative has been launched in which the Norwegian government will be built into a completely fundamental division in terms of foreign and security policy. We have had many coalitions in recent Norwegian history where the parties working together in government have different views on many parts of Norwegian domestic policy, but to date we have never had any government coalition where the participating parties are completely, completely disagreed on central, long-term issues in Norwegian foreign and security policy. It'll be a whole new situation for which we have no historical experience. It is therefore important that Norwegian voters be made aware of this. Foreign policy has almost never played any role in Norwegian election struggles, precisely because we have had the broad consensus, and because the voters have known that either the Right Party or the Workers' Party were in government, respectively in opposition, the two parties have in a way been the bearer of this long-term agreement. I have registered with satisfaction that Thorbjørn Jagland has stated that it does not come up with a rematch at any government change. I have registered with similar interest that the two potential partners have stated the exact opposite. Both the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are of the opinion that this is a central area just for rematching government. The important thing about this is that a government should not only draw up broad lines to which it relies on membership from the Stortinget, but also, from day to day, manage Norwegian NATO membership and Norwegian participation in cooperation with EU countries. There may be a danger that there may be daily rematches. What is the outcome of them, there is no one given to predict. This is an experiment that there's reason to be very worried about. Finally, I must be allowed to return to the vain attempts I have made during this debate to get a clear answer from the Central Party on what the party was involved in the last time they were in government, in 1999, if they were unconscious at the moment when they joined the then government's desire for full Norwegian integration into EU security and foreign policy cooperation. I have not received anything that looks like an answer to that. I am even more interested in getting an answer to what the head of the Central Party has written in Norway's largest newspaper, namely that the majority of people today are in favour of, are unconstitutional. Marit Arnstad began to talk about the EU Constitution in his response. It is soon only the centre party in Norway that is involved. It is commendable that they are, but I actually meant the Norwegian Constitution. I thought it was the Norwegian constitution Åslaug Haga aimed for when she said it was unconstitutional. I would like to know if this is really serious from the centre party's point of view, and if it is serious, whether it means that the party is fully willing to take responsibility for the administration of a policy which the party itself believes is unconstitutional. In that case, what is the responsibility of the state councils after the Norwegian constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e928	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e933	I mentioned in my contribution to the EU Basic Law because it may be seaworthy to have an impact on the development of future cooperation in defence and security policy in the EU. Then I also mentioned the Norwegian Constitution. I believe I mentioned them in two different contexts, but it is possible that the salary did not listen well enough after that. It is absolutely right that I believe that we have a constitutional ambiguity in relation to the fighting groups, no matter what the government claims. It does not become constitutional simply because the government claims it is constitutional. It does not become constitutional simply because there were always large numbers of people who thought that something was constitutional. What is constitutional is also not just determined by what are the theoretical possibilities. The requirements for cleanliness in relation to the Constitution must also be assessed on the basis of actual and real conditions. The centre party insists that there may be occasions in the future when these questions come up again. There are, in particular, two factors that may be a basis for problematizing, in what is currently being given green light. I understand from the post of the representative that he does not believe there is anything that could help to problem anything in this case. He is not willing to look at any of the dilemmas that may arise. Let me point to a couple of them: One is that two EU Member States have now rejected the Constitutional Treaty. There may be a further debate on developments in the EU based on the Constitutional Treaty of the EU and its content. Cooperation in defence and security policy is also an important part of the Union Treaty. That's the one thing we shouldn't ignore. The second is that within four years, the right has almost sunk the defense's economy. No one has demonstrated by the Government how to recover the costs of these operations. It is said by the Council of State that they should be covered under the ordinary defence budget, and if there is an operation, one must return to it in the special cases. However, in other countries the question of costs and capacity is a matter that is being discussed. In the comparison that has now been made between the Danish and Norwegian defences, it is precisely pointed out as an advantage of the Danish defence that one is more selective, that one concentrates capacity on the most important areas also in the case of international operations. Nor should that debate be alienated from the Norwegian debate and from a Norwegian defence which is in such a deep economic crisis as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e946	I am not going to be tempted to enter into the EU debate that I really understood that Inge Wohnung now drew up very unnecessarily by getting involved in the debate at the end here. Let me make a few general comments. I share the view of Inge Wohnning that it is and has been a broad majority on the main lines of Norwegian defence and security policy. It's been completely independent of what kind of government constellation we've had in this country, and of course it will still be. We can just go back and look at the different governments with different parties, whether it's called the Syse government, the Bondevik I government or now the Bondevik II government. For the Workers' Party, of course, defence and security policy is not a question of negotiation. Norway can have only one foreign policy, one security policy and one defence policy. I have not seen this as a problem either. The Labour Party and the Central Party are in complete agreement on NATO, and we are in complete agreement on the UN. SV and the Workers' Party are of course in complete agreement on the UN, and SV says they accept our NATO membership. As far as today's decisions are concerned, it will of course be firm, regardless of what kind of government constellation we have. It will depend on whether we have a majority in this room that still believes that we should participate in the EU intervention forces. This consensus, which is also very broad in terms of defence policy and the transformation of Norwegian defence adapted to new threats, with which the rest of Europe also operates, is, of course, also a majority that will stand by completely independent of future government constellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e957	We have tried today from SV's side to find out that this is something more than Nordic cooperation. This is going further. It is to enter into a common European defence and security policy that we do not even know what is. The European Union does not know that either, because that is where the debate is going, and where there is a great deal of uncertainty about this. After all, when the representative Wohnung concludes that there is a lack of certainty about Norwegian security, defence and foreign policy, his account will be taken of. We have also tried from the SV's point of view to establish that we are sceptical about each policy that leads to increased militarisation and less use of civil acts in conflict management. That has been our main objective in this debate. In so far, I see no reason to be so concerned about what the representative said – he himself is part of a government that is diametrically disunited in a central and long-term foreign policy orientation, as a possible EU membership would be – but on the other hand, I wonder that one is surprised that one has different opinions about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e966	The President will note that Inge Wohnung is not in government. He's the Vice President of Storting. No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e971	It is interesting to note that hypothetical government negotiations have taken place over the pulpit of the Storting. But now it is necessary to negotiate as well as several parties, and I note that the parties still have quite different perceptions of reality. If the Workers' Party's position is taken into account, it must mean that the Workers' Party's premise to form a government with the SV and the Centre Party is that the two parties should not have any influence on foreign policy. There, a majority in Stortinget is to be supported against its partners in government. If the other two are satisfied with that, please for me. Marit Arnstad began to talk about economics. I thought constitutional questions had relatively little to do with economics. What Åslaug Haga has written is not that this is problematic in relation to the Constitution. She has written that it is unconstitutional – a very categorical claim – and it must soon be possible to get an answer as to whether the Central Party considers this to be unconstitutional and that the majority of the population is acting contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e980	Marit Arnstad has spoken twice earlier in this debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e983	It is, of course, quite touching with the concern expressed by the representative, Mr Wohnning, for another government option. Now, when wages are going to vary because of this, I am going to reassure him that the three parties will always be able to negotiate for very sensible arrangements and policy solutions, including in the field of foreign and security policy. As far as the Central Party is concerned, we believe that it is in the best Norwegian tradition to support under the UN and NATO. We've always done that, and we're going to keep doing that. We believe that the interests should be concentrated even more than the large number of people today, compared to just these two organisations. What I commented on in my post was a relationship that I think could help to get a new debate on this issue. But I see that Inge Wage, which is otherwise of the more intellectual kind, in this context is not willing to problem these questions at all. Nearly whatever can happen within the EU, or in relation to costs in the Norwegian defence, it is not interesting that it can contribute to creating a new debate in Norway. Otherwise, I share Åslaug Hagas' point of view: this is not constitutional.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e994	I note that the Central Party continues to point out that this agreement with the EU is unconstitutional. Secondly, it is used as an argument to renegotiate the agreement that parts of the EU have refused their Constitutional Treaty. Therefore, there is a need to stress that the EU Battle Groups are not included in the EU Constitutional Treaty. The EU Battle Groups have been adopted in the past and independently of it, so that the battlegroups of the EU are firm. There is something the EU agrees on. Therefore, the Constitutional Treaty cannot be used as a justification for renegotiating the broad consensus that this enlargement has marked today, if there is to be another government alternative to the harvest. I think there have been very clear signals from the Workers' Party that what we are agreeing to today is solid. But I'm very concerned about the signals coming from the Central Party to the same thing. So another point. Marit Arnstad has in several articles used the term that the government has run the defense economy down. If there's one thing this government has done, including in a wide defence agreement with the Workers' Party, then it's to restructure the defense to avoid the defense going bankrupt. Here, too, we have a broad agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party, and here too, the Workers' Party has made it clear that this defence agreement, which applies out of 2008, is in place. I would also say that we are in the last year of the first four-year period for such a settlement. The central party's view was in the spring of 2001, when the agreement we are now in, was concluded, that they would have a faster reduction of the support structure than what the Workers' Party and the government parties actually agreed to. That's why I just want to say, as the main speaker of the Left was here today, that if you're concerned about the defence economy, it's a strange solution to bring SV into government – SV, which has cut three to five billion dollars each year in the defence budget. I agree that this should not be an economic debate, but with the very poor claims that have been made, there was a need to answer. I would like to get an insurance from the Central Party and SV that they will also establish the defence policy agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party in any government option in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1005	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1021	It is agreed to approve the Protocol of 28 November 2003 on the Explosive Warrior Doctrine and the United Nations Convention prohibiting, or restricting, the use of certain conventional weapons which may cause unnecessary or arbitrary harm. The Committee refers to the negotiations which have been conducted with a view to arriving at regulations following the expiry of the dispute proceedings, in order to prevent the harm to the civilian population caused by dead-handed and abandoned ammunition. This is an important area, which has been ignored for a long time. It is also very important that the Protocol contains measures to clear areas containing explosives and that information on where such explosives, ammunition or toxic war zones are located be exchanged. But for a good result, cleaning should start as soon as possible after a conflict. A ban on some weapons and the clearing of areas following acts of war is also very important in order to enable refugees to return quickly to their territories and re-use them. Although many feel that there should be more and more international regulations in the use of weapons or explosives that affect innocent people, the protocol is an important step towards protecting civil life, especially by children who, out of ignorance, can be harmed by playing with abandoned weapons. An overall committee will also express concern for various terrorist organisations that aim to target innocent people and considers that efforts to combat them need to be intensified. The biggest problem, as I see it, is not war where the parties respect the Geneva Convention, but terrorists who can leave unmarked mines, explosives, radioactive, bacteriological and chemical materials. Therefore, efforts to track down and combat these need to be intensified. With regard to the comments on class bombs, which are supported by the majority of the committee, all except the Progress Party, there are many reasons why we do not choose to bring forward a single weapon. First of all, we have concentrated on the work of the United Nations Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons, which may cause unnecessary damage or which may occur at random. It's the Inhuman Arms Convention. This has led so far to the present Protocol on the explosive legacy of war. This Protocol imposes responsibilities and demands on the parties to clean up and harmless the blindlocks after a war has ended. In this way, the Protocol constitutes an important contribution to the reduction of the adverse effects of, inter alia, deadliers. class bombs. However, the Protocol deals primarily with post-conflict action and is therefore not sufficient to address humanitarian concerns alone. Wars and armed conflicts are never humane, and as a non-military, I must admit that this is a difficult question: firstly, to protect peoples and countries from danger and, secondly, to choose the weapons that must be used to bring the danger to an end when negotiations do not take place. The difficulty in this is that actors in many conflicts use civilians as shields, where human life doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1042	A user in the world has an annual budget of approx. A thousand billion US dollars on guns. Then comes the costs that are not budgeted, the ones that we might talk about here today: the loss of economic opportunities, health costs, ecological costs, disarmament costs and – perhaps the most – the human costs. One can only think of the human cost that fears class bombs and mines create. Of course, there is an expense that is impossible to calculate in terms of amounts. One can only think of these. This is the background for us from SV to be happy that the majority say that they assume that the Government will continue the work they are actually doing. So let's extend it a little bit further in a comment with the center part. It's just to emphasize the seriousness of the terrible consequences in addition to the money we spend through public budgets on war and warfare, and to emphasize that there must be even more force in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1049	This is the first international agreement that requires states to clean up successively when using class bombs and other weapons that result in explosive warships. The agreement is a breakthrough in reducing the suffering of the civilian population. The Protocol prohibits or imposes strict restrictions on the use of the type of weapon that kills, maims and damages the civilian population long after a war is over. A number of measures shall be put in place in respect of cleaning and assistance following the completion of the dispute action. It is absolutely central that the protocol applies to both internal and international conflicts. I am also pleased that the protocol is legally binding on the parties. I will give tribute to the Government for having been an active driver in the negotiations to get as binding international regulations as possible, even if the agreement is not as comprehensive as we or the Government would like. The Protocol is a very important action in the humanitarian field, but it is only a first step on the road. It does not prohibit the use of Class Ammunition and other mini-munitions against military objectives in concentrations of civilians. It was not agreed that the Protocol would apply to the Warrior Warriors' Associations from previous conflicts. I am therefore pleased that the Government is continuing to reach agreement on the need for preventive action in the framework of the Inhuman Arms Convention. It is also positive that Norway has taken the initiative of an international seminar in Oslo at the end of this month to reach agreement on the work to develop new international commitments in this area. Norway is probably the world’s largest country to introduce national bans and restrictions in this area. It's been noted internationally. The majority has decided that Norway should work internationally for a ban on class bombs. The government has taken the initiative to bring about such a ban, but unfortunately there are no countries at this stage that want to do so. Alternative weapons or ammunition types are said to have such a negative humanitarian impact. The government has therefore chosen to work to regulate and limit the use of blinders. Class bombs are a combination of weapon systems in which a metal container emits small bombs from aircraft. These small bombs shall normally explode when they hit the target, but between 15 and 30 pst. Don't do that. They remain as so-called deadliers and can easily be triggered by moving, playing or other external influences. Experience from the Gulf War, Kosovo and Afghanistan shows that the use of cluster bombs leads to enormous human suffering both during war and long after the war is over. Class bombs are technically something other than mines, but they represent the same humanitarian consequences. There is currently thorough evidence that innocent civilians are killed and mutilated by class bombs. Class bombs are therefore a particular problem with regard to the right of civil protection. This is partly due to their use in areas where it is difficult to distinguish between civil and military objectives. Unexploded class bombs have the same effect as landmines by preventing the development and blocking the use of large land areas. It prevents civil society development and economic growth. The proliferation of cluster bombs across large areas offers greater potential for harming and killing civilians. Fights may have ended in a few weeks, but class bombs remain a threat for many years, because the cleaning work is very demanding and takes a long time. The civilian population cannot use the soil if the areas are not cleared. Refugees cannot return, and humanitarian aid is difficult to obtain. Class bombs are inaccurate, in the sense that they are difficult to target. It also has to do with the fact that the fraction of the blind is very high. NATO has estimated that about 10 p.m., nearly 30 000, of the class bombs they dropped over Kosovo did not go off. Norwegian People's Aid reports that today more civilians in Northern Iraq are being killed and injured than during the war. Daily accidents involving mines and unexploded ammunition are also reported from the south of Iraq. It is very tragic that the incidence of cluster bombs often looks exciting and attracts attention from children in particular. We know that children and young people are overrepresented in all loss statistics. Norwegian People's Aid sees this again in Iraq's accident reports. If an international ban on class bombs is not agreed, a break in use should be pursued, as proposed by the Red Cross in 2000. Cluster Munition Coalition requires a halt in all production, trade and use of class bombs until the humanitarian problems they cause are resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1077	In this context, I want to focus on class bombs, because class bombs have unacceptable humanitarian consequences. They have a very high rate of blinders, and high-sensitivity blinders pose the same threat as landmines, which are now banned. Extensive costs and damage related to detection and destruction. There is a clear increasing trend in the use of class bombs. Since 2001, there have been two warriors in which classammunition has been used. During three weeks in 2003, 13 000 class bombs of at least 1.8 million were released. small bombs over Iraq. The attacks may have left up to 200,000 passersby, who have killed and mutilated many already, and who will kill and mutilate more in the future. Very many civilian losses in war have just been caused by class bombs. We know the problems not only from Iraq, we know them from Laos, from Kosovo and from Afghanistan, and we know that this type of weapon will also be used in possible future wars, if we do not go to the step of making international improvements that contribute to the non-use of this type of weapon. The protocol on which the debate is based today helps to reduce the adverse effects of blind people, among others. class bombs. That's good. But the protocol deals with primary action following a conflict. We must not forget that there remain enormous challenges in the work to put in place a humanitarian, sound regulation regime for class bombs. International regulations on the use of weapons in international law are essential for the protection of civilians in war. Norway has been a driver of the further development of international law throughout the postwar period, regardless of the political colour of the government. Like a little country, we've earned it. I miss a clearer commitment from the current government to the further development of international law. In a world where the level of conflict has increased since 2001, where the threat picture has become more inconspicuous, some countries have to assume leadership responsibilities and face the development of international humanitarian law. Norway needs to show more clearly than today that we are willing to stand on the barricades to save civilians from suffering. Class ammunition is the type of weapon that is most urgent to be regulated in international law, we believe. Today, class ammunition can be used without significant restrictions despite the grotesque impact of the ammunition type on the civilian population. There is an urgent need for an international ban on class bombs. A major challenge in the fight against clusters is the lack of a leading star – a country or more that mobilises political commitment and declares that they are willing to take the lead in such a campaign. Norway should, in our view, take this managerial responsibility. Norway should take the lead in the fight against class bombs. Landmines were banned in a process where Norway was a driving force. The Landmine Campaign shows that it is possible to achieve international consensus on these types of issues. The mining process can be re-created if one or more countries take responsibility for managing the process. It's not enough to get on the chest and say that we're participating in the CCW negotiations. The negotiations are locked, there is little evidence that the CCW parties are able to agree on a clear negotiating mandate within a reasonable time. But as I said, it's urgent to move on in this work. The unacceptable humanitarian effect of the cluster ammunition is sufficiently empirically proven. Norway should therefore take initiatives that look at the possibility of doing something outside the CCW negotiations, which complements and acts as a driving force for work there as well. I challenge the Government to take concrete initiatives to create a process against an international ban on class ammunition. A strong political commitment is needed. Many believe that it is natural for Norway to take the lead. Norway may introduce a national ban and should start work on identifying countries that are equal and friendly in order to achieve the objective of a total ban, or, alternatively, a strict regulatory regime. Among other things, there is now a discussion about national bans in Belgium – we should follow this up. Belgium was known as the first country to ban landmines. My question is simply: does the government challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1094	There is not so much to add to this debate, because the debate has covered what is the main point, namely that we had higher ambitions for this agency than what was actually the result. As can be seen from the papers, which are also attached to the setting, we have explored the possibilities of getting a total ban. We did not get that, but that does not mean that we should not appreciate what was possible and that we have today submitted to Stortinget for approval, which is approved. That doesn't mean we're satisfied in any way. As Lars Rise also stated, we have invited the interested parties to a discussion on how to move forward, later this month. On this background, Åslaug Hagas plays a bit funny, but it is possible that she has not been given the opportunity to study the material presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1099	It is possible that the Central Party does not have a full overview of everything the Government is doing in this area, but we know very well about the plans that are available for meetings here in Oslo on 22 and 23 June. So we're following something, too. The challenge in this matter is to get to the point of taking political leadership in relation to these issues. I don't think it keeps running meetings, consultations, at the office level in this field. Here it has to be a political grip from the top of the system to move on. A guiding star is needed, and that guiding star is not possible for an official to take. The functions must be played out by the political leaders, and that is what I miss – the political commitment, the political commitment that is clearly national, but which is definitely also clearly international.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1106	It seems that Åslaug Haga believes that the government is doing things that the political leadership is not doing. It's possible it was like that in her time, but it's not like that in the real world.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1127	St.meld. No 31 concerns cooperation in NATO in 2004, and it is appropriate to start by saying that 2004 was an eventful year with major challenges and tasks and major requirements for migration in NATO. The majority of the Committee has opened its doors to comment on the historical event on 29 March last, when Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovenia, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria were taken up as members, and indicates that it marks a timeline for security policy on the European continent through increased integration. This is the majority of the Committee, all except SV, which states. And in a little parentheses: I'm almost a little over it, because the SV was actually for the expansion when it was debated here in the hall. Uncertainly for what reason they are not included in this remark – unless they are taken seriously from what they said in the debate at the time, that it was okay to be there, since Russia was not against it! Furthermore, the majority believe that NATO, through its involvement in the Balkans, in Afghanistan and in Iraq, contributes to stability and thus to democratic development, and the same majority consider it important that Norway contributes to the development of precisely this side of NATO’s activities. However, there is an overall committee that believes that the ever-closer security policy cooperation between EU countries could have a significant impact on NATO and Norway if one does not ensure good cooperation arrangements between the two organisations. This is the whole committee behind it, while once again there is a non-SV committee dealing with how Norway is going to meet the challenges, pointing out that Norway should be a driving force in the development of such cooperation relations, that the active NATO exposure by the US continues, and that the broad transatlantic dialogue within the alliance is continuing. It is the same majority who have agreed that Afghanistan will become a major priority task for the long-term alliance, and there is also full agreement between allies to contribute to the building of a democratic and stable Iraq, including by participating in the NATO training mission. NATO also worked in 2004 to transform its military capability to address the security challenges we face. It is the same majority as previously referred to – that is, all except the Socialist Left Party – that refers to a special need for more flexible forces that can be used both within and outside the territory of NATO. The same majority also sees that new and costly capacities require further development of multinational cooperation within the alliance, and that these are and will be key issues in the transformation of the different capacity-related processes and planning disciplines in NATO. I'm not going to go into the special comment from the Socialist Left Party here, it's probably going to explain itself, if they want to. But I can probably add that from the Right side we can really understand the Socialist Left Party; the resistance to NATO is deeply anchored in the party; it seems to go to the party's soul. Therefore, the relationship with NATO for this party is not like any other political area. We know that Norway's relationship with NATO was precisely the basis for the party to be established in its time. It is therefore likely, on the right, that possible government cooperation on the left, including the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, will be able to move Norway in a much more NATO and US-critical direction after the autumn elections. And we see it well so that the greater the resolution SV gets in relation to the Workers' Party, the more SV will contribute to dragging the Workers' Party in a left-hand direction. In this sense, SV could become a major force factor in Norwegian policy if the red government were to be established. The party will then be able to help break down the foreign policy consensus that has, after all, existed in Norway since 1949, when it became a member of NATO. This consensus suggests that the Euroatlantic community is the foundation of Norwegian foreign and security policy, where relations with the United States have been in a special position. I think the Workers' Party's foreign policy spokesman and head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, have actually described this situation in an excellent way in an article in the Evening Post on 11 June last year, where it says: ‘In government cooperation on the left in Norwegian policy, foreign affairs will be an obstacle. The dilemma for SV is that the party built up with its international profile during a cold war that has long since passed.’ That is why it is all the more important that the main lines of defence and security policy with relations with our allies through NATO have such broad support in the Grand Duchy as today's position shows, and where the Workers' Party is also part of the majority. It's important to the country. Of course, safety and well-being in Norway are not as small as living in peace and freedom. So far we have good reason to explain a credible alternative from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1154	The year 2004 became a landmark of the NATO alliance. On 1 April last year, NATO contributed to Europe's return to a continent. NATO expansion was the rounding of a long process after the end of the cold war. NATO adapted rapidly after 1989 and started, among other things. with the Partnership for the Peace Project, which has gradually resulted in the enlargement we have been given. First, the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary were taken up as members for a few years back. Then three countries crossed the borders of the cold war. They couldn't do that before. They now crossed this border without conflicts and processes other than those of democracy, and it has been fast in Europe for the last 15 years. And so last year, NATO was expanded to cover virtually the whole of Europe. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, many actually predicted NATO's finale. At best, NATO could evolve into a political chat club, it was said. However, NATO has had a wonderful ability to adapt to new security policy framework conditions — and new threats. The strategic concept of 1999 already showed a power of action and a capacity to be forward-looking that was quite impressive. So it's that a defense salliance obviously needs military capabilities to have authority. The NATO Summit in 2002 adopted the ambitious but realistic and absolutely necessary ‘Prague Capability Commitments’ programme, which started cooperation between the countries of the Alliance, primarily the European countries, on the development and use of military capabilities – cross-border cooperation: one country has one facility and another country has something different, and increased interoperability, to put it in the tribal language. NATO also worked in 2004 to transform its military capability to address the security policy challenges we face. I share the view of the majority of the committee on this. There are ‘needs for more flexible forces’, as stated in the suspension, and new and costly capacities require further development of multinational cooperation and an increased division of labour between NATO countries. We have discussed NATO's contribution to Afghanistan earlier today. In this round, I shall confine myself to stressing that for a long time in the future, NATO will have Afghanistan as its main priority in international peace operations. The Committee refers to the EU’s takeover of NATO forces in Bosnia and underlines the good cooperation that exists between NATO and the EU. It is also true, as has been said earlier today, that EU operations depend on the so-called Berlin plus agreement between the EU and NATO on the disposal of NATO forces. There is broad political agreement in Norway on NATO operations in Kosovo. As we deal with the news of NATO's activities in 2004, I find today reason to commend the Norwegian KFOR force, which last year showed that it is dealing with challenging situations in an extraordinary way. The Norwegian professional forces are today robust, well-interested and well-schooled, both physically, mentally, ethically and culturally. What the Norwegian forces in Kosovo showed last year was exactly what is going to happen in a situation where they are being threatened. Then it's about keeping your head cold. They did, they saved a situation and have also been praised in NATO for this. I also note that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is also calling for NATO to play a more political role in its work in Kosovo, for example. to support the UN in its efforts. Finally, there is currently a notification of the northern regions, which will be treated in this room in a few days’ time. The challenges we see there can only be solved within a multilateral framework. That is why the NATO-Russia Council is also very important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1180	I refer you to the rapporteur's review, and the Progress Party supports what has been said. I'm not going to go very deep into this matter now, but just focus on a few points. The extension last year was a historic highlight and an event that it is worth noting, and the representative Nybakk also came up with it. It shows NATO as an attractive organisation when so many countries are applying in that direction, and that NATO's ability to change and become an active and dynamic organisation for the future is very positive. I'm recording that from SV's point of view this change is not positive, and I think it's admirable of SV, as a party that is against NATO membership, to go so strongly into and think a lot about what's also happening internally in NATO. At the same time, SV might also be a little worried, because they write in their comments: ‘This contributes to weakening NATO’s military alliance relevance.’ I was a little surprised when I read that sentence, and I wondered, is SV really concerned if NATO's relevance is being reduced? We imagine a situation where SV can come into a position where they are going to negotiate to enter a government. Now, SV has so far said that NATO membership itself should not be attempted to change, but when we see everything now going on in NATO, it's not just about being a member and maintaining membership in a club. There is something to manage and develop and participate in and make the most of on behalf of the Alliance, on behalf of Norway as a member, and I have to say that there is a little uncertainty about how SV in a central role in a future government will manage and develop the NATO membership of Norway. It might be interesting to hear SV describe how they will deal with it. The northern regions were drawn by the representative Nybakk, the importance of what will happen there, that NATO could also play a role here. Would SV agree with that, that we have to use NATO where NATO is relevant, where NATO is relevant, and that we have to do the best out of membership, regardless of what you might think in principle about being a member or not a member?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1196	This fits well, it'll be like a long string change. I can go straight on: What can be changed in NATO? What kind of new initiative can come within NATO? A natural task, which Norway should support, is to work for — and much of it is happening in Europe today — and to demand full withdrawal of American nuclear capacity deployed in Europe, anchored in NATO. It could be one thing to start with. That would be a lot of work. We'll be able to accept NATO membership if we can join in making NATO a better place. In April 1999, NATO established its new strategic concept. This is still largely the current operational nuclear strategy that NATO maintains. SV looks at these nuclear weapons as a threat to our own security and not a guarantee of our own security. NATO sees the deployment of nuclear weapons on non-nuclear land in Europe as important because it demonstrates solidarity between the allies. SV sees this type of alliance construction as counterproductive, that it rather favours the spread of nuclear weapons, upgrading, less control of weapons and in many ways seems more threatening to non-allies than to act as a prevention for war. NATO's nuclear strategy is deterrence. In connection with that, it's an objective to be slightly conservative in relation to the nuclear strategy. SV believes that one should work for good governance in the nuclear strategy, as this minimises the strategic potential of weapons. This will be essential for our ability to achieve the goal of total nuclear disarmament. NATO has neither a first-use strategy nor a non-first-use strategy. NATO wants a potential attacker to be unsure what the weapons alliance is responding to. This means that NATO or the nuclear weapons countries in the alliance will not provide binding negative guarantees of security. It creates additional uncertainty about NATO's nuclear weapons strategies when these cannot be separated from the U.S. nuclear weapons strategies. The U.S. nuclear doctrine says that nuclear weapons can first be used against a state that attacks American interests, and against a state that uses or threatens to use chemical or biological weapons. It is even possible to engage in pre-purchase attacks where nuclear weapons in the outermost instance can be used. NATO's operations today have no geographic boundaries, and the alliance's military strategies are being used wherever they operate. SV is opposed to all of these doctrines, as they promote aggression in foreign policy and hamper confidence building security policies and disarmament. In addition, they act as a direct conflict-scaling tool. In NATO's strategic concept, disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons are mentioned as very positive. SV sees this as contradictory to the relationship that the alliance does not abandon first use. So the United States of America has missile tactical nuclear weapons deployed in six western NATO countries called nuclear sharing. Personnel from these countries are trained to operate nuclear weapons, and their potential use is practised. NATO has thus in fact been responsible for the spread of nuclear weapons and for spreading the potential uses of nuclear weapons. This spread is increasing as the alliance was expanded, although NATO says that nuclear weapons should not be deployed in the new NATO countries. Spreading breaks with the intention of species. 1 and 2 of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. NATO's nuclear umbrella now covers about one-sixth of the world's population. The expansion of the alliance and nuclear weapons outsourced has also contributed to making Russia more unwilling to demolish. It is interesting to note that IAEA Secretary-General El Baradei has stated that other countries cannot sit and see that NATO's 25 member countries are betting on the nuclear umbrella, while an attempt to ban this kind of security for other countries. This is not viable in the long run. The New Agenda Coalition resolution of the fourth year was supported by eight NATO countries, including Norway. Only France, the United Kingdom and the United States voted against the resolution. These eight NATO members can have a bridge builder's role in these questions, if they're willing to do it. SV believes that Norway should step up its role as a bridge builder in this work, including within NATO, and then also with the aim of reducing the huge number of Russian nuclear weapons in Europe, which, with respect to reporting well, is the most important problem. So a little bit about what's happened in ours, because it's actually happened very much positive in this area. Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Turkey, Italy and the United Kingdom have deployed American nuclear weapons. None of these are atomic states, except the United Kingdom. The United States is the only state in the world that actually has a practice of deploying nuclear weapons on the earth of other states. We're assuming that these outsourced nuclear weapons in NATO count a space between 450 and 500. Germany is the country that has the most, with 150. I would like to quote from the debate that has been held. It even has our debate on this in Norway. In March, the Inter-Church Council’s Committee on International Affairs stated their wish to withdraw NATO’s nuclear weapons from non-atomical states’ soil. It is interesting to see that even Church is working on this, that Church is interested in this. These are important questions. We know that in Norway, there's a huge majority that is against nuclear weapons. Therefore, as politicians, either here in the Chamber or internationally, we need to do what we can to solve maybe the greatest threat that exists, that there is nuclear weapons. The Foreign Affairs Committee of the Belgian Senate has adopted a resolution calling for the withdrawal of NATO nuclear weapons. The FDP in Germany, that is, the liberals, is producing a resolution asking for the withdrawal of NATO's nuclear weapons from German soil. On the first attempt, this resolution was not supported by the Green and Social Democrats. In April, the Belgian Senate supported a resolution on many disarmament measures, including the withdrawal of NATO nuclear weapons from Belgium. At home, Lars Rise, here in the hall, said that it's a problem that NATO uses nuclear weapons as deterrence, and he wanted a withdrawal of American nuclear weapons from the other NATO countries. This was said here in the Chamber on 26 April this year. In the Netherlands, a resolution on the withdrawal of nuclear weapons was voted down in Europe. This happened after a long debate about it. So it's not like everyone's a few about this. It's a good process to get one of the biggest problems away from European soil. I haven't mentioned what's going on in Germany, but the whole room knows there's a lot going on between the government party and, not least, Joschka Fischer, Germany's Minister of Foreign Affairs. These are processes Norway needs to support. Norway should support them not at least when it comes to the NATO meeting this summer. Even France and the French Minister for Defence have reported this. So there's a lot of things to tackle. There is a lot to do inside NATO to improve the security situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1232	I find that SV has a lot they want to do within NATO, and then it might be time to start thinking about reconsidering their position in terms of membership. The overall objectives of Norwegian security policy are to prevent war and prevent threats to Norway and collective security. Our security policy shall contribute to the peace, stability and further development of the international legal order. We must respect our sovereignty, our rights and our interests, and we must secure the Norwegian society against attacks by state and non-state actors. Norway has to work with allies and NATO to cope with this. NATO is the most important security policy forum we have. This is also agreed between the United States and the European NATO members. From both sides of the Atlantic, the value of strengthening the dialogue and cooperation in NATO is visible if we are to be able to face the threats facing the international community. It's positive that the United States now seems to be showing greater willingness to use NATO as the leading forum for consultation and cooperation, but we're not going to underestimate the disagreements within the alliance. The disagreement between the United States and some central European countries is about the experience of Iraq and how to address key security policy challenges. The United States has defined the fight against international terrorism combined with the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as the overall threat. There is no doubt that there is an urgent need to defend itself against terror. The terrorist attacks against, among others: The United States, Spain and Russia show this. But there is a disagreement in the emphasising of instruments in the fight against terrorism. On the part of the United States, a military countermeasure is essential. On the European side, it emphasises that international terrorism can only be combated by the use of political, economic, military and other instruments. There is a problem if the United States is also using coalitions of willing rather than European allies and NATO in the future. Discussions in NATO have also been marked by the desire for greater European responsibility for common security. As a result, the EU took over the peace operation in Bosnia-Herzegovina in December 2004. This was positive and shows that the EU and NATO can cooperate well. It is important that the development of the ESDP takes place in close cooperation with NATO and not in competition with NATO. NATO and the EU need to cooperate more politically and practically than they do today, not just in military matters. The organisations will then complement each other and benefit from each other's benefits and experiences. We have discussed the EU's response forces earlier today. Norwegian participation in the Nordic EU intervention force represents a continuation of the Government’s support for EU security and defence policy. Action forces shall develop and strengthen the EU's capacity for peacekeeping and crisis management. As the Minister of Defence has pointed out, this is done in consultation with NATO and in cooperation with the UN. The strengths are intended to support the UN’s capacity for crisis management. Although the alliance is characterized by internal tensions, NATO is making a great effort and has greater attraction than ever. NATO also helped in 2004 to promote stability and democracy both within and outside Europe. The expansion of the alliance with seven new Member States has led to Europe being more integrated and safer today. I noticed that SV will not be in the majority that refers to this historical event. SV says in the form of a note that NATO should have been shut down when the Warsaw Pact was closed. NATO has also supported stability and democracy in countries outside Europe. First of all, this applies in Afghanistan, Iraq and the Balkans. ISAF is the NATO security force with a UN mandate in Afghanistan. NATO took over the command and coordination of ISAF in 2003. This was NATO's first mission outside the Euro-Atlantic area. With this, NATO demonstrated that the alliance had the will and ability to meet the new security challenges wherever they occurred. NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer has said: ‘Afghanistan is the top priority of NATO. Our own security is closely linked to the future of Afghanistan as a stable and secure country, where people can rebuild their lives after decades of war.’ When it is stated from NATO's top management that Afghanistan is the top priority, it may also seem like a paradox that the United States has had ten times as many soldiers in Iraq as in Afghanistan for long periods. It's hoping that we can now get together that it's Afghanistan that's top priority. ISAF was originally only intended to ensure safety in and around Kabul, but now ISAF is also to cover other parts of the country. In the so-called phase two expansion, NATO will deploy forces west of the country. ISAF had around 8 000 troops from 36 countries at the turn of the year, including all 26 NATO countries. ISAF contributes to stability and peace in an area that has been marked by conflict and unrest for more than 30 years. Even the SV, who will shut down NATO, believes that ISAF is making an important effort for peace and stability in Kabul. The mandate of ISAF differs from that of NATO in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo, and NATO has been the primary provider of security. In Afghanistan, NATO plays a more supportive role for the Afghan authorities, and it is the country’s authorities that have ownership of the process. NATO is thus helping to secure the future of Afghanistan. The aim is to create a secure and secure society in which free and fair elections can take place and to rebuild the country. During the presidential election on 9 October 2004, NATO had troops of 10,000 in Afghanistan. This helped to make the option a success. More than 8 million people cast their votes on election day, more than half voted on President Karzai. Elections will be held in Parliament, at regional and local level during 2005. NATO will again help to safeguard the environment and ensure that elections are held in a peaceful manner. NATO is not the only security actor acting in Afghanistan. In addition to ISAF, the fight against ‘Enduring Freedom’ remains active. ISAF and Enduring Freedom coordinate their activities and exchange information. Great progress has been made in Afghanistan, but there are still many remaining challenges. Terrorism threats against ISAF are very worrying. In the south and south of the country, the Taliban and Al Qaida are undermining the mission and creating a very worrying situation. Drug trafficking, organised crime and lack of local infrastructure remain a major challenge for Afghanistan and for the international community working to rebuild the country. Those who claim that development and security in Afghanistan do not affect us in Norway can only follow the opium trade from rural Afghanistan to the streets of Oslo. As much as NATO is needed in Afghanistan, NATO is still needed in Kosovo. Security there is very fragile, and the country is in a critical period. In December, the NATO Foreign Ministers also formally supported the extension of NATO’s training assistance to Iraq. The mission of the Alliance in Iraq will thus increase to about 300 personnel, including training and support staff. NATO will gradually increase the ongoing training and advice of Iraqi security forces. The next step will be to extend assistance to establish a NATO-supported Iraqi training, education and teaching centre near Baghdad. The mission of NATO countries is different, but nevertheless complements other international efforts. As the only party, SV is opposed to the training of Iraqi security forces, both in Iraq and outside. The Christian People's Party has always opposed the war in Iraq, but we want to help and contribute to the stability, human rights and security of the Iraqi people. They need our help more than ever. They have lived under Saddam Hussein's brutal regime. They have been forced into a war, and now their everyday life is marked by conflict, terror and unrest. The uncertainty in Iraq is so fundamental that precisely the military element is absolutely central. On the basis of Security Resolution 1546 and at the request of the Iraqi Interim Government, Norway decided to assist the training of Iraqi security forces. Does SV think that the best thing for the Iraqi people is whether their security forces are not trained at all? Should we have ignored the questions of the UN Security Council and the Iraqi authorities about help? Does not the international community have a responsibility to ensure peace and security in Iraq, that human rights are respected? All NATO member countries contribute, either in Iraq or outside Iraq, at NATO schools and training centres, through financial support or with equipment. Does it really mean that Norway as the only country should say no? Would it not have been an advantage for Iraqi officers, who are often educated in a culture of brutality, to be able to convey values such as human rights, respect for individuals and legal certainty? NATO is not involved in fighting in Iraq. The contribution to Iraq is concentrated on training, equipment and technical assistance. The aim is to help Iraq build its own capacity and address the security needs of the Iraqi people. In addition to Afghanistan, Iraq and the Balkans, it now appears that NATO will assist the African Union in Darfur. The African Union plans to step up its presence in Darfur in order to limit violence and protect civilians. In order to do this, the Union has asked for NATO's support. We believe that this is very positive on the part of the Christian People's Party. UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan made a strong appeal to NATO and the EU at the Munich Security Conference on 13 February to take action to end the conflict in Darfur. The situation here is very serious, with extensive violations against the civilian population. Another stated that those organisations with real capacity, both NATO and the EU, need to carefully consider what they can practically do to put an end to this tragedy. On 26 May, the NATO Secretary-General stated that the alliance was now ready to assist the African Union's mission in Darfur in logistics, including: strategic air bridge, management training, control and operational planning. The African Union will continue to be in the driving position to resolve this conflict, and the role of NATO is to strengthen the Union’s ability and ability to meet this challenge. There have also been discussions about the deployment of NATO forces in the Middle East. Norway has taken a positive view of this. Cooperation between NATO and Russia is also developing positively and the NATO-Russia Council is becoming increasingly practical and operational. Norway's relationship with Russia is good, and developments in this area are positive. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that Russia is a major power that will take care of its interests according to its own needs. In some areas, Russia and Norway may not have all the same interests. Then it is important to ensure positive, stable and safe development especially in the north. It is best ensured by a predictable and regular presence of Norwegian and Allied forces in the region. Tackling and trafficking in human beings is a widespread problem that needs to be tackled. I am therefore pleased that Norway, together with the United States, has taken the initiative to develop a policy for NATO and the partner countries in this area. The initiative is aimed at preventing NATO personnel from using sexual services when victims of trafficking are involved. The initiative has come a long way and is now becoming an integral part of the operational regulatory framework of the alliance. Unfortunately, there are ghastly examples of soldiers, both from NATO and in the UN service, misusing their position and acting ethically irresponsibly. Even if soldiers are under pressure, we cannot allow such behavior. Respect for human dignity also applies in conflicts, and when power is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1289	I almost have to do a line because almost the whole article was like a line to SV. The Christian People's Party as a war party clearly appears in the article of Lars Rise. It started with 70 million aid crowns for Iraq. Take it from there, know where the Christian People's Party stands in this context, when, in addition to using means of aid for war, they also want to be with and run this on. So for training. SV has opposed training. We've been in Afghanistan for that. I have visited the Norwegian ISAF teams myself. They're doing a really good job. They show that they have what is called folk culture in good Norwegian. They're doing a great job, there's no doubt about it. We'll back that up. But in Iraq, where 800 people have died since the last government took over, we know that there is a completely different situation. I would like to ask the representative Lars Rise straight out: how does he intend to follow up the Inter-Church Council's decision to get rid of nuclear weapons on European soil?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1300	I find it strange that SV is so pleased with the efforts of ISAF in Afghanistan, but has no faith in what Norwegian military forces can contribute to Iraq. I have to ask back: how can SV sit at a large, open debate here in Oslo, by its leader, and explain why SV is for the training of Iraqi forces on Norwegian soil, but against the training of Iraqi officers if it should happen on Iraqi soil? Why was this position changed at full speed, so that one suddenly became opposed to training both on Iraqi soil and on Norwegian soil? It was a pitfall that it was very difficult for others than those who are known internally in SV, to understand. I still don't understand. Why is it not important to bet on Iraqi officers getting the training they now so badly need, in a situation where the country is in full crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1305	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1308	NATO is in many ways the foundation of our foreign policy. That's our foreign policy anchoring. So there's a lot that should have been discussed in the Storting, especially because we're now going into the last weeks of the four-year period, where it's really the main points of view to be put on the table of the people. After listening to this debate, I just have to note that it is not very much to say. I want to join what Marit Nybakk said about the NATO-Russia Council, which is an important part of the organization pattern in the north. I find that SV – perhaps inconspicuous, but still happy – has ended with its disinformation about what the nuclear strategy is all about. Every year they've tried to tell people that it's a first-use strategy, but, as Jacobsen very rightly said, it doesn't. It's good that it's come into place. At the same time, he urged the Government to continue its bridge builder role in relation to the UN vote on nuclear issues. I would like to remind you that what we have been criticized for so far is just exercising that bridge builder role. I've been criticized too many times. It is also a welcome development. But that's essentially what I'm saying. What kind of situation do we now face? Yes, a debate on NATO that we have every year. It's not just a matter of talking about history, but traditionally, the Storting has been talking about the important lines and time in the future over the years. Now the situation is that before this election, the government is challenged by a coalition that is quite clear in its will to take power, but which is obviously divided in the foreign policy area. We have heard earlier today from Thorbjørn Jagland that the two coalition partners can only forget to exercise influence in terms of the effort forces, because the Workers' Party has formed a coalition with the sitting government. Of course I'm happy to hear that. At the same time, we see in today's attitude that one of the parties believes that NATO should really be dissolved, while both coalition partners are calling for a more independent foreign policy line. As this is one of the last foreign policy debates before the summer holidays, we should have had a proper debate on what the main options will now be. What's going on? The main actors on the other hand have been swept away, not taking part in the debate. And then my question is, what kind of fogging maneuver is this? Do you not dare stand up with your foreign policy alternative to the people in the harvest, or is it such that you simply do not know what the alternative is? If it is such that I can focus on what Thorbjørn Jagland said this morning, I think it is in many ways good news, namely that it is at the intersection between the Right and the Workers' Party (Norwegian Foreign Policy) that will continue to be exercised and designed. This means that the two coalition partners would have accepted that, in terms of foreign policy, they are not coalition partners anyway. These questions are absolutely fundamental to the path the country is going to take, and what challenges the current government is facing, but so the three cooperating parties have been swept away in the debate. It's a fogging maneuver that I think is quite eye-catching.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1332	“That you may not be abandoned, but never that you will not” – Ibsen-word. It has been said several times in today's debate that we do not regard this as fundamental disagreements that will prevent possible government cooperation. Now, as well-known people in elections first decide this, so it's a little premature to start discussing this right here and now. Right-wing knows just as well as I do that they are in a government where they have government partners who are of a diametrically opposed opinion on an important foreign policy orientation, which is EU-saw. They can do that – I don't think any red-green government will have a problem with that. But what I want to ask the Secretary of State about is: does the Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the forthcoming NATO meetings support German, French, Belgian initiatives to get a withdrawal of American nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1341	I have to say that of all the answers that can be given on which way the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy will go, the answer is that this does not see the partners as a problem in their cooperation, there is no answer at all. That's not what I asked. I've raised the question: what do you really intend to do? How do you relate to what two parties say in the vote, that you should have a more independent foreign policy? And my question, why don't you light this up, so we can get it on the table with a real discussion? That's what the fundamental questions, which Jacobsen wouldn't be going into now, either. I also have to say that the most pressing nuclear issue we are now facing concerns Iran and North Korea. There should be focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1348	I think it's pretty amazing that this is the most committed post that I've heard from Secretary of State Petersen in the last four years here at Stortinget. I've never heard such a glowing post, with real commitment, fun and hug, like this post, when he challenges others. It's amazing. For these four years, we have had a foreign minister who has spent all his time simplifying, speaking vaguely, misusing and creating confusion. And now – when we discuss the annual report for NATO – is what we need to have the big, wide and swinging foreign policy debate! This is quite alarming. I would like to see that we had the living foreign policy debates in this room over four years. We had the opportunity with a foreign minister who had been willing to put things on the table, to address the difficult and complex challenges, but we haven't seen that once. And so now, in the annual report for NATO, we are going to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1353	I think I've been able to give a couple of dedicated posts in this room earlier. We've had quite heated debates about important foreign policy choices, so the memory of Åslaug Haga can't be all the world, she knows well. But it's now that her own party in this setting is pulling up the demand for a more independent foreign policy, and so she's not able to say a single word about it in this post, except that she obviously thinks it's amazing that someone has the energy to read it and figure out what's there. No, what Åslaug Haga is now doing, is a fogging maneuver to let go of what's really breaking the three parties, because it's going to affect some of the idyll that's between them. But they have to be prepared to stand in front of the voters and tell them what the alternative is – and then it's not just about each one – why do they make demands on power, why do they want power in this area? I find that Åslaug Hagas' contribution is not to be answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1358	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1361	The year 2004 has not been a rest year for NATO either. Someone's probably asking themselves if NATO isn't about to take a break. I'm not among them. For me, it's clear that as long as NATO changes, there's hope for the organization. It can then continue to adapt to new tasks, while remaining a relevant safety policy organisation. Today, we have also discussed the EU's battle groups, part of the development of defence policy in the EU. However, not all NATO members are members of the EU, for the NATO, Turkey and Norway flanking countries, are not members of the EU. It is therefore of great importance that NATO remains a relevant safety policy organisation — perhaps especially for Norway, as it may look like Turkey at least to start negotiations on membership before Norway. The enlargement of the EU took place on 1 May 2004. About a month earlier, NATO was expanded with Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovenia, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. It's our new allies, and it's clear that the extension of NATO marks a security policy divide. Time divisions of this dimension have not been too many of my time in defence policy. NATO exists, but one of the challenges facing NATO is the old transatlantic tension. I have met for six years in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, a meeting that the Minister for Foreign Affairs knows very well, and followed the interest of the United States in NATO. In my opinion, interest was falling and well reached the bottom of the Iraq crisis. It was coalition with individual countries that applied. I believe the war in Iraq has taught the United States that in any international conflict it is important to have support from their friends. At the NATO meeting in Slovenia, which ended Tuesday, the U.S. delegation was remarkably large, six senators and full quota from Congress – very good. Another challenge, which we also know from our own country, is related to the transformation of NATO's combined military forces to become a relevant tool in the fight against the new challenges. There are major technological differences between NATO countries, and major misinvestments have been made. It is important that we now see material investment in a European-American context. It is therefore gratifying that the Government is now actively working for Norway to be part of the EU body for defence equipment – the European Defense Agency. Geography has always been an important element for NATO. But one factor in NATO's development is that NATO's military operations and searchlights are no longer directed to the north. It may not be military power that is needed in the north, but political friends in democratic organisations. That's why we still need NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1382	It's a lot of fun to hear before your ears fail. It may well be that Åslaug Haga's announcement of a living foreign policy debate can be linked to the fact that she did not find an apartment to be present in the debate we had on case No. 1 today, and even less found the apartment to participate in it. Then it's a little strange to call for foreign policy debate. The gap that was evident in the debate on Norwegian participation in EU intervention forces earlier today is even deeper in the matter under consideration. The representative Rise wondered that there were bumpers from SV's side, but I have to say that the comment that SV has written in the committee setting is a single consecutive series of bumpers. We're used to SV contradicting others in foreign policy, because they have a very special sense of reality, which is not shared by other parties in this room. But that they also contradict themselves as striking and dramatic as in this setting, it's amazing. On the one hand, it is clear that the SV's position is that the NATO alliance should have been closed at the same moment as the Warsaw Alliance was closed. The next moment you criticize the United States for choosing to improvise cooperation with other countries instead of sticking to the NATO alliance, which should have been abandoned. Had you followed the SV's position, which is, moreover, consistent with the position of Krushchev in its time when it came to defeating the NATO alliance, yes, neither the United States nor anyone else in today's world would have had any option other than coalitions of the willing. If I have understood correctly, there are also coalitions of the willing SV suggesting as Norway's prescription, and at this point surprisingly, with the support of the Center Party in a strange joint remark. Norway should also maintain an independent line at all times, i.e. and forget commitments and lasting alliances. But how can it be critical when the United States does it, but it is exemplary if Norway does exactly the same, namely to demonstrate that there is no interest in lasting and stable alliances? And how can it be a contribution to a more stable world, be it in our own continent or in other parts of the world, that land should begin to act that way? So the Socialist Left Party goes on to say that they are followers of NATO's partnership cooperation with other countries. And in the next sentence, they say that they're not anyway, because that cooperation should be going on somewhere else, and not in relation to NATO. In good folk Norwegian, this is a statement that doesn't hang on to it, because one statement hits the other in half. Finally, it is said that the desire for increased partnership with Nordic neighbouring countries is welcome. That is why SV has argued intensely that it wanted that the Swedish and Finnish governments have addressed to the Norwegian, we should have said no. That's a slightly special way to welcome initiative. After today's two debates, the one we had on the matter, we have to be able to see. 1, and the one we have in this case, that SV mentally still lives somewhere in the 1960s in terms of security and foreign policy, with some sporadic visits this millennium – before you go back. But let me be allowed to drill a little bit more in what the Minister of Foreign Affairs rightly pointed to as remarkable, namely the minority opinion on which the Central Party and the Socialist Left are common. For there you read the following: ‘The members of the Committee of the Socialist Left and the Centre feel that it is a blind lead for Norway to draw closer to this cooperation.’ — In other words, cooperation between NATO and the EU — ‘It is not desirable to make forces or material available to a Union of which we are not a member. These members believe that the emergence of a European security block in addition to NATO shows the need for foreign policy actors with a more independent line.’.» Depending on the context, ‘independent’ in this section must mean regardless of both NATO and the EU. Because NATO and the EU have joined forces throughout the EU in the development of a common European security concept, this has been done by the EU in its contractual cooperation with NATO. And then it must certainly be relevant to ask, as the Foreign Minister did: what kind of alternative is it hiding under this rhetoric about independence? Who is Norway to relate to if these two parties are given the opportunity to direct Norwegian foreign policy over the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1404	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1420	As the Committee refers to in the vote, the proposal provides for a fund of DKK 10 billion under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be set up to deal with humanitarian disasters. It is proposed that the Fund be targeted primarily at acute events where emergency aid is needed, but there will be sufficient capital to enable assistance to be provided over a longer period of time where necessary. The funds of the Fund shall, as proposed, be made available to organisations, the United Nations or countries affected by major humanitarian disasters. It is proposed that the Government work to internationalise the Fund and establish it in the long term under the United Nations. The majority of the Committee welcomes the basic idea of strengthening the possibility of providing rapid and effective assistance to those affected by major disasters. The majority, however, reject the proposal, and I would like to refer to the reasons for this, as stated in the vote. Emergency aid and humanitarian aid for victims of conflict and natural disasters are covered by several budget chapters in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. The humanitarian budget lines are also assessed together with the transitional assistance line to provide Norway with sufficient resources and flexibility under normal circumstances. The size is also able to make rapid decisions on extra appropriations in exceptional situations. The flood - wave disaster around the Indian Ocean on December 26, last year showed this. It is also important to stress, as the majority do, that every year the Stortinget deals with government budget appropriations, including the financing of Norwegian humanitarian aid and emergency aid. The size has recently been the subject of the developmental notification. This was a comprehensive review of Norwegian development policy. The proposal for a Solidarity Fund was not raised in this context. Work is now under the direction of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid to improve international response to humanitarian disasters. There are also various proposals for reform, including: by the United Nations humanitarian system, in order to improve the international follow-up to humanitarian disasters by the UN Secretary-General. Further efforts are also being made to make the UN rolling loan fund bigger and more operational in relation to acute and forgotten crises. The majority believe that Norway must be active in order to strengthen the United Nations’ capacity in this area. We need a stronger UN, including: to deal with natural and environmental disasters. Last year, the flood disaster triggered unparalleled donations in Norway and around the world. It's very joyful. At the same time, the majority believe that when humanitarian disasters of this magnitude occur, the UN must have the necessary predictability and stability in its coordination work. In the long term, therefore, the UN should become less dependent on donors’ willingness in acute situations and on the focus of TV cameras. The majority believe that this raises again the question of greater predictability and improved access to resources for the many important tasks of the UN. It is good that there is such a broad consensus in the UK that the UN must be strengthened in this area. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have proposed in the UK to ask the Government to investigate alternative forms of global taxation for income for the United Nations system. It is gratifying that the bourgeois parties are at least involved here in referring to this proposal, even if they do not support it. This is the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1441	The funding of the UN has been part of the public debate for many years. The background for discussing this is two relationships. One is that the UN continuously needs more money, especially for its humanitarian work. The second is that some major contributors have not contributed to the extent to which they are obliged, and that the UN has thus continuously had financial difficulties. The international discussion has focused on how the United Nations could have a different financial base. One of the proposals promoted is the establishment of an international humanitarian aid fund. Part of the international debate has also focused on the UN's Millennium Goals, on how to manage to find permanent or better funding for the UN. The background to SV's proposals today is initially the humanitarian disaster that occurred in Southeast Asia after the tsunami, when the world was perfectly exemplary. Both nations, individuals and businesses provided support to an extent that we have never seen before, and it was a lesson in how international cooperation can actually take place. There was also a lesson in how some national states were able to deal with such a hopeless and impossible situation then. After this, many disasters that had previously had an international search light came, increasingly in the shadow. The experience of the modern world is that the international community is limited in being able to focus on and have a great deal of attention on many major disasters at once. What we know for sure is that, for example, the African continent has many major disasters that do not have international attention to the same extent. It is not as easy for the large humanitarian organisations to collect money for them. This is the background for SV's proposal. What has been part of the international debate for a long time, we want to bring into the main hall, initially through a proposal that the Stortinget provides a larger amount of money for the Government – next time as part of the permanent financing of UN humanitarian aid. We believe that this is a good proposal. We believe that this does not conflict with the fact that, fortunately, Norway has many other instruments to contribute nationally and internationally, as is also stated in the majority’s remark. This does not conflict with the fact that we provide assistance through ordinary government budget appropriations – it will be an important complement. But perhaps one of the most important things about our proposal is the symbolic effect it will have on a large contributor making a larger amount of money available to the UN, that others can see that it is possible. The power of the example could in this way lead to a fund of a certain size that could then be at the disposal of the Security Council. This is part of the beautiful thoughts that many people have about how, in the future, to be able to find better ways to finance international humanitarian aid, where the UN is in the lead. This is the background to our proposal. We believe that it still has timeliness. There is no majority in favour of this proposal today, and that does not surprise us. But we think it is important that we have also started in Norway the debate that many people are taking part in internationally, simply because we see the inadequacy of international society almost every time there is a major humanitarian disaster. Tsunami is an example of how this can happen. We hope that it will be possible to make equal efforts from the world community if anything like that should happen again, but all experience suggests that it would have been good if the United Nations had had had a financial reserve, which we had initially made available to the Norwegian Government, so that the United Nations could be active in a completely different way immediately. To conclude, what is unfortunately the situation is that when a humanitarian disaster occurs, in addition to the fact that humanitarian disasters already exist, the UN has to go around the Member States and ask for money. We know that this situation has often led to a lack of the money that was proposed, and that the scale of the disaster is thus increasing. That is why we will pass on our proposal. In this round there will be a vote. I think the next time this comes up in the Storting, more parties will see that the proposal has a lot to do. I take up the proposal of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1464	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1467	With despair, we witnessed the tsunami disaster in Southeast Asia. It was one of the world's greatest natural disasters measured in the loss of human life and material destruction. Once again, the most vulnerable were hit: the poorest, the women and the children. There was a need for rapid assistance, and we saw a great desire from both nations, organisations, businesses and individuals. I admire the voluntary contributions that the Norwegians have collected. It testifies to strong solidarity and closeness to those who are affected. The Tsunami disaster showed that in exceptional situations it is possible to obtain additional appropriations that do not delay operational responsibilities. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we were very concerned that the billion we gave had to come in addition to other assistance and not to affect other people in need. Said in a simpler way, it didn't have to be so that the poor in Sudan would pay the bill. The international community also presented Sudan at the donor country conference. The contributions from the outside world are a necessary start both on the economic process and on the reconciliation process. The UN discusses several ways to improve the coordination of humanitarian aid in the event of disasters and to improve the follow-up to humanitarian disasters. Norway must be an active driver in order to strengthen the UN. We must rejoice at the joy we saw in the tsunami disaster and the promises of the world community. Now we have to make sure that these promises are kept, and that the money is given now as they are needed. We also have to make sure that it is prioritised correctly, and that it is coordinated locally and internationally. We must remember that there are still over one billion people living in extreme poverty. They need help, and they need help now. We agree on the thousand-year targets. Now we also need to agree on the means to combat poverty, and we need to show the will to act. Something else will be failing the poorest. If we are to cope with poverty, we must act in several areas – both national and international, both public and private, in aid and trade, in investment as much as in debt. All countries must make an effort. Everyone has a responsibility to fight poverty. Developing countries must be able to sell their goods and services on our markets in the north. Developing countries must work for good governance. This is a prerequisite for development, and it is the country's own policy that, to the seventh and last, determines whether we succeed in combating poverty. I am also pleased that the Government emphasises the fight against corruption and money laundering as strongly as it does. The channelling of development assistance to non-governmental organisations can help the poorest without underpinning an inefficient or corrupt regime. If all countries in the next five years are reforming and reorientating their assistance to the poorest, it will add significant amounts. At the same time, if we significantly increase the volume of assistance, it is possible to achieve the Millennium Goals in 2015. Official development assistance is an important source of financing development. The UN target is 0.7 pst. of GNI for development. Today, there are only a few countries that meet this target. The cooperation management will deliver 1 pst. of GNI. When we give top priority to development aid, it is important to ensure that the money is used well and efficiently. However, most of the funding needed must come from sources other than official development assistance. In addition to integrating developing countries into international trade, we must work for debt relief. If we are to succeed, several key actions need to be implemented. A greater part of the assistance must go to the poorest countries rather than to the middle-income countries. Providers must refrain from assistance aimed at serving their own political or strategic interests. The aid must go to those for whom it is intended. The donor countries also need to coordinate their efforts more closely. They may not compete or run on each other. They must work together and coordinate their efforts. We need to move from earmarked project funds to larger framework allocations and closer interaction with other donors. Although we lack a lot of money in the fight against poverty, we now see a positive development. Last week, the richest EU countries decided to double their assistance in a few years. In March, there was also a breakthrough in the harmonisation of aid when the OECD countries agreed on the Paris Declaration. It's positive, and it shows that we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1496	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2639]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1512	As the Committee refers to in the vote, the proposal is to ask the Government to pay international taxes as alternative and supplementary sources of income to the UN and how they can be put into practice. Taxes on different financial transactions, international environmental taxes, taxes on arms trade and taxes from countries acting as tax havens should be considered in particular. The proposal is also about asking the Government to present proposals on how and where such international initiatives can be taken. The majority of the Committee is in favour of rejecting the proposal, while the minority, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Central Party fully support the proposal's intention to strengthen the UN financially. I'm assuming that the majority might explain their views later. I shall therefore briefly take the view of the minority. The issue of global taxation was raised in the context of the treatment of the development message, where a majority, including the members of the Right and Christian People's Party, felt that it was natural to search for new sources of funding such as: can strengthen the UN and other global institutions financially. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre went beyond the majority and felt that new sources of funding and mechanisms for redistribution, which are global in nature, should be sought and referred to the international discussion on Tobin taxes, carbon taxes and taxes on arms trade. In the same position, therefore, we proposed to ask the Government to investigate alternative forms of global taxation on income for the United Nations system, but there was no majority in favour of this. The UN is particularly central to the follow-up to the Millennium Goals to halve the world’s poverty by 2015. In March of this year, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan presented his report, In Larger Freedom, where it emerged that without a breakthrough in 2005, the international community will not achieve the Millennium Goals. As the minority refers to, there is also an international discussion and work in this area. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in its letter to the Committee, refers to the debate in the EU on the introduction of air tax for income for development purposes. It is also pointed out that there is renewed attention to so-called innovative funding mechanisms, including international taxes, inter alia. by a joint initiative of France, Brazil, Chile and Spain. These countries have addressed the issues of a working group that presented its report at a meeting of the UN General Assembly in September 2004. It's interesting to note that the Right and Christian People's Party in the setting is advancing both the GAVI and the Global Fund. It was as is well known the Workers' Party that in its time took the initiative that Norway should support the global alliance to secure vaccines for all the world's children, and we have since been a driving force to increase the appropriations. At the latest in the current year’s budget, the Workers’ Party and SV proposed to increase the appropriations for GAVI. As regards the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, GFATM, there has been a decline in the Government’s allocation. The Labour Party and SV also proposed to increase the allocation of the Global Fund in the current year’s budget, but we did not receive support for this. It is gratifying if the reference to GAVI and Global Fund in the vote implies an increased bet on these institutions by the Right and Christian People's Party in the future. Finally, I would say it's a little strange that when the Stortinge dealt with the globalisation message last year, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party were actually open to assessing carbon taxes and other international environmental taxes. But now such proposals are only referred to as ‘less realistic projects’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1531	Of course, the starting point for the comment from the Right – and the government fraction – is also the harsh reality behind the thousand-year targets of funding them, not least poverty reduction. But we have a different approach to how this can happen, than what emerges from the comments of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. For our part, we believe that the best way to raise funding for the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals is to ensure that the aid commitments given, with the objective being 0.7 pst. by GNI, is implemented by developed countries. There are a number of countries that have not implemented this, although it is with some satisfaction that a growing number are now beginning to plan for progress in order to get into the necessary allocation. So we believe, as we have thought before, that the main challenge in this area is not the lack of mechanisms, but the mobilisation of sufficient political support – or, for that matter, the will – for the financing of the global joint tasks, including the Millennium Goals, where, in the first place, the mechanisms available must be used. We share the concern of many parties also internationally, that focusing on different – I would say – airy proposals can easily obscure the attention that should have been given to increasing traditional development aid, and there is scepticism about how a technical one would implement some of the politically unrealistic proposals on currency tax and global taxation that we believe have emerged. We note that there is considerable scepticism in the case of new schemes, where perhaps the money is not fully defined in advance, how it is to be administered, and what the administration will cost, and for that matter also does not have sufficient objectives for how to use this money. On the other hand, of course, we also follow closely in the debate that is taking place, not least in the UN and in the forums around multilateral organisations, on innovative funding mechanisms, and we think it is positive that this is a debate that has become more pragmatic and constructive in the last year, and with which there are also new actors – I think both at the World Bank and at the IMF. This is not about global taxation or direct financing by the UN. The discussion is now more about national-based charges, which can be channelled through traditional intergovernmental cooperation to development issues by those countries that consider this appropriate for development funding. Similarly, it is not desirable to establish new bureaucratic arrangements or institutions, but to channel them through the existing multilateral channels. We have ended up in a majority opinion with the Progress Party in which we describe the proposal presented as a proposal with little international integration and which is not central to the international agenda. So we don't see the need for a strange investigation either, but we have to follow up on what's going on internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1542	That there may be a need to strengthen the UN financially, we are fully in agreement with, and that you want to look at ways to do it. However, we believe that attacking it from this angle, by resorting to taxation – international taxation – is not the way to go. We try to reduce national tax levels to the best of our ability, and we do not intend to try to establish new taxes internationally. The financing needs of international organisations need to be addressed, and that is a responsibility for the Member States. Norway contributes strongly to the UN as an organisation, and to many of the UN sub-organisations, and is doing well in this context. It would be better to have a discussion on the contributions of the countries. Of course, you can go a long way into matter here and talk about how realistic, not realistic or practical this is, but for our part, this is a rejection on a principle basis. I must also add that I agree with the representative of Vallersnes that implementation, introduction and the purely practical conditions surrounding such taxation are likely not only to be difficult, but almost impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1551	The President did not record that the case-rapporteur took up the minority proposal, perhaps the next speaker, Mr. Øystein Djupedal, can take care to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1554	I shall now refer to the motion for a resolution. What has happened since the introduction of this proposal is that there has been a significant international movement, in particular on one of the related issues – tax on international air services. Recently, in a meeting of EU finance ministers a few weeks ago, voluntary taxation of air routes to finance the UN, initially in the EU, but also on international air routes. This is one of many proposals coming internationally, once again as part of the same debate that we had earlier in the Chamber: are there more permanent ways of financing emergency aid, aid and the work of the United Nations? In particular, there are four relevant issues that are discussed internationally. One is different charges for financial transactions. It is a proposal that, of course, has a significant degree of unrealisticity in itself, because it requires very many countries to agree to it. But at the same time, there are very many countries that have made fundamental decisions that they are for this, insofar as more people are able to agree. This has two purposes. One is to make speed dumps for the speculative economy, and the other is to fund the United Nations. Many countries have addressed this issue, and it is a very good proposal that is also discussed in economic circles – whether this could be a way of slowing down the pace of the world economy. Many of the financial transactions carried out are purely speculatively motivated and not motivated by trade or by trade. The second discussion is international environmental taxes. It is particularly related to the failure of the Kyoto agreement to agree on parts of these global climate emissions, and especially those related to aircraft. This means that a discussion has been about how to tax aircraft emissions in a way that becomes fair. It has not been possible to find a wise mechanism to do so, and that has not resulted in anything in the Kyoto Protocol. For this reason, it has been discussed in retrospect whether a charge should be imposed on air transport, thereby ensuring that the United Nations has a modest source of income based on each ticket, but of course significant to the United Nations. What EU finance ministers have recently done is to move in this direction, namely to introduce a voluntary levy in the EU to finance international environmental and solidarity work through the UN. Whether this will become operational now is difficult to say. Many have opposed it, including in the EU. However, a majority of EU finance ministers have, as I said, wanted this type of taxation. There is also an international discussion about international arms trade, whether it is possible to imagine a tax on it. It is, of course, the discussion that has come as short as international, but it is an idea that many people have. What is fully conceivable, on the other hand, is the creation of an international regime that prevents tax havens from evading the tax that the community else in the world has to pay. It's supposed to be a system to prevent tax refugees from hiding. At the moment you move out into the international world, you also have to pay taxes. This is also intended as a way of financing the UN and humanitarian work. What is interesting is that there are many countries participating in these discussions internationally. Many might say that these discussions are not real, they are not so that this will be done tomorrow, and of course that is right. But what's sad is that Norway as a state does not participate in this, that the government we have, every time this kind of proposal comes up, says that this is impossible, we don't think this is interesting, we back it up. In this government, Right follows up the old tradition of being a continuous brake block, instead of saying yes, we actually think this is exciting, we want to contribute internationally to see if we get something. Interestingly, the majority parties in the vote, including the Progress Party, say that they do not want to participate in anything that has little internationalisation and is not central to the international agenda, and therefore they reject the proposal. One does not have to have been in the United Nations for more than one week until it is understood that these are international debates in which many countries participate, including those with more conservative governments than the Norwegian. There is no need to go beyond the EU, where it is found that EU finance ministers have this kind of debate at their own meetings and also decide that they want to introduce this type of tax in order to finance the same objectives as those of this proposed document. This means that either the Norwegian conservatives are not fully up-to-date in terms of international debate, or it is because one is just a brake pad and does not think that this is exciting. It would have been interesting – let me just say it – if you tried to move on from the Norwegian side, because Norway has a tradition and a position that makes this not necessarily a lot of color. Let me just say that this is also an important point. Many see this type of taxation or this type of proposal as being the proposal of the Norwegian left-hand side. This is not the case internationally. Internationally, it is the case that tone-setting speakers for these proposals are civil politicians. Jacques Chirac in France can in this way be a good example of those who have gone the farthest. politicizing, in political terms, these proposals are unfortunate. I think that's why the Norwegian conservatives are so to those degrees in the rear. Internationally, this is a proposal that has been widely accepted in many environments and that you want to investigate and go on with. If you look at just the countries mentioned in our proposal, which are the ones who have taken the initiative, you will see that all these countries are governed by governments far from the SV, the Workers' Party or the Centre. France, Brazil, Chile and Spain have a whole bunch of different governments. That's our starting point for this. We do not want this to be politicised in the traditional party color, but that Norway is taking an initiative to see if it is not possible that we can participate internationally in this pinch of countries that believe this is a good idea. And when you look at it, you might find that it wasn't a good idea, and that's why you shut it down. We have no prestige attached to these proposals. But what we know for sure, and which I really think the whole Biggest knows, is that imagining new mechanisms for financing the UN, emergency aid, unhelp, international solidarity work, what brings the world a step further, means that many more have to participate and many more have to find solutions, because we also know that many countries are neglecting these commitments. It is to a large extent the Western world – there is a pinch of land – that contributes massively to the UN, and it is good. But it is clear that if other sources of funding were found that were permanent and secure, the role of the United Nations would also be significantly strengthened internationally. Let me end with that. If some do not support these proposals, although they should have done so, it is perhaps because you do not want the UN to have the financial weight and the driving role that SV and the other proposers want the UN to have internationally. The UN shall be the organisation showing the way in the field of humanitarian and solidarity work in the world. It is clear that if you strangle the UN, it will not become that instrument. So we have an American-led world order as an alternative. That's why we're very much in favour of this type of investigation and this kind of proposal. That is why this is a great debate internationally, not just on the left, but among many conservative and right-wing people: how are we going to strengthen the UN? I think it is sad – let me just say in conclusion – that the Norwegian Right and the Norwegian Government are not involved in this, because this is a very good and decent proposal, which more people should have been on. But I think it might be particularly sad to see that the reason why you're not there is to those degrees out of date and out of knowledge. I think that might be the saddest thing about this. But what I can certainly say is that this proposal has not been debated for the last time in plenary, because I am lucky to know that there are many who want to move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1584	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1587	In September, world leaders will meet at a summit in New York to discuss developments for the Millennium Goals. All UN Member States have joined these. Over the past 25 years, we've seen a huge decline in the number of poor people. Nevertheless, many countries have become poorer. More than one billion people today live on less than $1 a day. Half the world's population lives on less than $2 a day. Poverty, hunger, disease and illiteracy affect the daily lives of billions of people. Every year three million people die of HIV/AIDS. Eleven million children die before they reach the age of one. We see a tendency for the gap between rich and poor countries to increase. We have resources and technology to change this. We can reverse the negative development. All countries have joined the Millennium Goals. Now they also have to show the will to fulfill them. The goals can be achieved, but then we need to increase our efforts. Now the world’s leaders must show that they are under their obligations. If we do not increase efforts, many countries will not reach the Millennium Goals. This is particularly true of the poorest countries south of the Sahara, the Andean Mountains and Central Asia. It is on this basis that the SV has made proposals asking the Government to apply international taxes as alternative and supplementary sources of income to the UN and how they should be put into practice. The Christian People's Party agrees that more means are needed to combat poverty. However, we do not believe that SV's proposals are the most dangerous way, as the situation is now, with strange investigations and direct funding from the UN. What we need is a global, joint initiative to increase funding for development purposes. The SV's proposal belongs to yesterday's debate. What is now being discussed is an opportunity to win and get the majority's support. We must therefore be involved in this discussion and support positive and realistic proposals that are now being promoted. In recent years, there has been an interesting development in the question of innovative funding mechanisms. The international discussion is now much more pragmatic and constructive. There is now a living international discussion on technically feasible, legally feasible and politically realistic measures. Many actors are actively involved, including the World Bank and the IMF. The theme will be at the heart of Financing for the Development Summit this month and also at the United Nations Summit in September. The discussion is no longer about global taxation, nor about direct financing by the UN. What is now being discussed are national-based charges channelled through classical intergovernmental cooperation for development purposes. This does not mean that new institutions or bureaucracies should be established. The funds shall go through existing channels, such as UN organisations, multilateral banks and institutions such as GAVI and Global Fund. The aim is to ensure that the Millennium Goals are met. It is very important that Norway is actively involved in these discussions, including international investigations. Even small taxes and taxes could be critically different. Kofi Annan underlines the importance of using new and innovative funding mechanisms in the report ‘In Larger Freedom’. EU finance ministers recently agreed on a voluntary tax on air tickets. The funds shall be used for development assistance in poor countries. The tax is seen as an opportunity for rich countries to increase aid to Africa and the world's poorest. It was France and Germany that supported the proposal. Another proposal, on the tax on aviation gasoline, was rejected. This is a voluntary contribution, but each country can make it mandatory. The tax is expected to become mandatory in Belgium, France and Germany, while Malta, Cyprus and Ireland will make it voluntary. EU finance ministers are now discussing how to further increase development aid so that they can present a comprehensive package of proposals that can be promoted at the UN Summit in September. Developments in the EU and the discussion on these issues show that it is possible to reach agreement on common actions that can be used in the fight against poverty. It is absolutely central that this is in addition to public aid. In the debate on financing for development, the discussion on innovative funding mechanisms should not divert attention from the need for increased development assistance and increased foreign investment. Had all developed countries followed up their commitments to give 0.7 pst. of GNI, we would achieve the thousand-year targets. We must therefore work to ensure that the developed countries keep their commitments on aid. It is positive that several countries have taken seriously the commitments of the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development and of the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development. It is a step in the right direction that the EU and the United States have increased their assistance. There is no disagreement about the need to strengthen the UN financially. The current financing of the UN is through quota and voluntary contributions from Member States. The financial situation of the United Nations is not precarious, but the organisation still has sessionary liquidity problems due to the lack or late payment of compulsory contributions from Member States. At the turn of the year, the Member States had a total debt of $2,964 billion. The United States was the country that owed the most money, but also countries like Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom and China owed the UN money. The UN is indispensable as our most universal and representative organization. All the UN Member States must therefore be involved in strengthening the UN economically and politically, so that the UN can continue to be our main tool in the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1606	I was going to use this post to market the Christian People's Party program. But I became a little uncertain after the post that was just made, because the Christian People's Party programme for the period 2001-2005 says: ‘In this context’ — it refers to the foregoing, but it is important — ‘a levy on international capital transfers should be assessed as a current alternative’. [[Tobin fee]] It is stated in the Christian People's Party programme for the period 2001-2005. So you want to investigate the Tobin fee as a current alternative. I must say that I have seldom heard a party that has so sharply distanced itself from its own program formulation as what was now done in the contributions of the Christian People's Party. Therefore, I guess I can't do what I initially intended to do, namely to drive this active marketing of the lot's program formulation. Then it may not surprise you that the party takes a sharp distance from what is in their own programme, because in the setting of the matter we are dealing with now, the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party, along with the members from the Right, say that they have ‘must be skeptical to technically impracticable and politically unrealistic proposals such as currency charges; [[tobin tax]] We have already seen in this setting that the Christian People's Party is withdrawing from its own program, but I must say that I am surprised at the post that was just being held. It might have been interesting to know more about why the Christian People's Party has disagreed with itself. During the treatment of St.meld. No 35 for 2003-2004, the Joint Fight against Poverty was the majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party; ‘obtained by a greater degree of redistribution, and therefore it is natural to search for new sources of funding that can help both to balance disparities between poor and rich, and to strengthen the UN and other global institutions financially’. As we know, there are two different things to be concerned about something and to want to do something. The Christian People's Party therefore opposed the following proposals from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate alternative forms of global income taxation for the United Nations system.’ During the treatment of the globalisation message – St.meld. No 19 for 2002-2003 – also wanted all parties, except the Progress Party, to assess carbon taxes and other international environmental taxes, but only the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV went a step further and launched global tax methods as a way of financing UN work. Tobin taxes are often introduced in this context. Also this proposal went against the Christian People's Party. My point is that we should have so much liked to have a Christian People's Party on these questions. We would have liked so much to have seen that the Christian People's Party had followed up its programming, because as the position is now in the Storting, it would have made the difference in relation to whether we are going to move forward in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1638	I would like to take the opportunity from the Grand Council to present the Left's position. The left supports the intentions of the proposal, which are to ask the Government to collect international taxes as alternative and supplementary sources of income to the UN, and how they can be designed. International environmental taxes, taxes on arms trade and taxes from countries acting as tax havens can then be assessed. The proposal also seeks to ask the Government to present proposals on how to take such international initiatives. The national meeting of the Left decided that the lot should work to introduce an international CO2 charge for cross-border air and boat transport. The revenue from such a charge may go to the UN. The fight for a stronger UN and the fight for sustainable development is perhaps the most important battle of our time. Therefore, it is natural to look for new sources of funding that can help both to balance disparities between poor and rich and to strengthen the UN and other global institutions financially. 1.2 billion people live for less than one dollar a day. One of seven, or more than 840 million people, doesn't have enough food to eat saturated. Every six children in Africa die before it reaches the age of five. Every other child in southern Africa must never go to school. Half of all children in India do not have access to clean water. Basic human rights are being violated in over 150 countries. Solving these problems requires commitment, global policy and international cooperation. A reformed and strong UN and the will of rich nations to do something about their own societies is crucial to achieving this. I support the assessment that the best way to increase funding for development purposes is to increase assistance, just as this government has done. If all developed countries had followed up their commitments to give 0.7 pst. by GNI in assistance, there would have been enough resources available to achieve the Millennium Goals. Many donor countries have now committed themselves to stepping up their efforts to achieve these objectives. I also note the expressed concern that such proposals can quickly shift attention away from the need for increased development assistance. The left has been sceptical about the technically feasible and the politically unrealistic in proposals such as: currency tax – Tobin tax – global taxation or direct financing by the UN from such sources. The left notes that the global debate on innovative funding mechanisms has taken on a more pragmatic and constructive character in recent years, which has also involved actors such as the World Bank and the IMF. EU finance ministers agreed by 14 May 2005 to consider voluntary charges for air tickets as contributions to increased development assistance. It is not a global taxing or direct financing of the UN. Rather, the discussion is about national-based charges which, through classical intergovernmental cooperation, can be channelled into development issues by those countries that consider this to be an appropriate form of development finance. It is also not desirable to establish new institutions or bureaucracies, but to channel any additional resources through existing multilateral channels, such as UN organisations, multilateral banks and institutions. This type of proposal is now being discussed in the preparation of the Conference on Financing for Development at the end of June and up to the United Nations Summit in September. The UN Secretary-General’s report ‘In Larger Freedom’ also underlines the importance of the use of new and innovative funding mechanisms. The left supports the members of the Christian People's Party and the Right in the Committee, who believe it is a step forward that the global debate on the funding mechanisms has now taken a more realistic direction. We support the call for the Government to participate in the international processes, including the joint investigation work that is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1673	There are, as was just said, international discussions and conversations on these issues in which the Government also participates. What's the leading point of this case is whether we're going to do another investigation on the question. That's what this is about. When you heard the representative, Djupedal, you could get the impression that it was a lot of other things, too, but that's what this is all about. Now it is quite right, as it has also been said, that this is a debate that has turned in many ways in recent years, simply because it has gained some experience so far. These experiences seem to me as if Djupedal has not come along completely. There has been a debate here for decades, and it has not been easy to come up with anything practical. It seems to me that Djupedal does not have any particular thoughts about which way to go, but only has the hope that someone will come up with something if you find out. I am unfortunately afraid that the very essence of the question is the political will to give funds and resources to the United Nations, and in so far also for development purposes. In this respect, I believe that the current government is very far ahead. We have one of the world's highest GDP shares for aid. We're a solid and faithful supporter of the UN, so I think we can say that we're well on track for these contributions. What's the point of leaping is whether you really believe that if a country's government and a country's government don't have the will to provide the necessary funds, as we do, it should suddenly have the will to get taxed for the same purposes. That's what's the nucleus itself. I don't think you can count on finding a form of taxation that every country is going to accept without being aware of what they're really going into. The political will to go into it, I don't think will be wide enough. With regard to this EU idea of taxing airline tickets, I think it is something that puts the matter in a rather peculiar dilemma, but in a very clear light. How is it that air passengers are now going to pay for the assistance? I believe that some of the fundamentals must be that this is a Community objective, and that it is not a special demand group that should have a special responsibility, but that it is precisely through the public budgets that responsibility is allocated to all the taxpayers. If you're not an air passenger, it's okay to tax the passengers, because then there's someone else who has to pay. Then we're back to what I think is one of the main issues with both UN funding and aid, that there are always ideas about how others should pay and one themselves should get away from it. I would also like to say that on the issue of tax havens, I believe that there is a very separate and very important issue that should be addressed regardless of where the money might have to go. It's a problem for every country, but it's a completely separate issue. It has nothing to do with assistance, it has nothing to do with the United Nations, but it has something to do with tax havens like this. It is therefore a separate issue that should, in any case, be addressed if it is practicable to address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1688	What makes me take the floor is that the representative Haga would have liked to read our program. If the representative Haga had spent some time reading, we would also have seen in our programme that, in the case of support measures, we are in favour of very high percentages of GNI. We are proposing 1.3 pst in our new programme, and we are also proposing 2 pst. in the longer term, and perhaps it would be a much better topic to discuss in this room today. I hope that there is a great deal of support for this when you are going to discuss it in the next period. The problem is not today that we need many new investigations. The problem is that we need to be on track – as the current government has been – and to follow up and facilitate the UN's financial strength, and that must be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1695	I cannot give up any comment on Djupedal's articles either. Briefly, the problem of Djupedal must be that he should draw the traditional solutions of the left into an international debate that now shows a pragmatic ability to move on. I really appreciate that the games on the left were first on this track and started playing with this ball. But they get to admit that now there are more people in the field, not because they're forced into it, but because they want to play and play, and they have to some extent the ball. My appeal to Djupedal and his points of view are: finally get on the track in the future, so that we can set the ball together!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1702	With all due respect, this was a completely incomprehensible post. My main point has always been this: politicizing in relation to the traditional party flora in Norway in this debate is unwise for the debate as such. We recognise that we have raised this into the Norwegian debate, but we have no desire for ownership of it. On the contrary, we have a strong desire to engage in dialogue with the various parties and groups in Norway to promote the kind of proposals that bring the world forward. I have to say that the foreign minister's posts also bear a great deal of prejudice and not knowledge, and that is a sin. We don't want in any way to assign people or parties attitudes and positions that they don't have, but I record that, with the reasons given in the setting for why you have rejected this, you can't have followed in the hour. Let me just take this with an air fare, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also mentioned. He could not understand why this was a good suggestion, why passengers have to pay. Yes, there are many good reasons why passengers have to pay. First of all, maybe because it's very simple administratively. It is true that, for international flights, environmental taxes are not paid, but the aircraft pollute significantly. CO2 emissions in the atmosphere have a much greater environmental impact than the CO2 emissions on the ground. This means that there is an environmental policy justification for this, which many international taxes actually have. If you add $1 per. Flight ticket, that means that if you leave Oslo-New York and go back, you pay a $2 that goes to the United Nations. Administratively, this is so easy to manage that it almost doesn't have administrative costs. That is why this is a proposal that has great international upswing. It is practical and can be implemented in a short time. All countries don't have to be involved. But if the big countries are there, there'll be a lot of money anyway. Then you can say yes, but everyone doesn't get along. This is unfair, why in the name of heaven should a tourist who goes to New York pay? Yeah, so that's the world. The point is that some people have to take these steps forward in order to try to find financial instruments that make the United Nations more stable and enable funds to be brought in for emergency and humanitarian work that is of a different scale to that of each Member State. This is not in contradiction with the fact that Norway, as a national state, is going to contribute to aid. I see that this too is being used as an argument from the Government to reject our proposal. That's not an argument. That's great! It is great that the current government and opposition agree that we should increase aid in Norway and that every Norwegian citizen through the tax bill pays for Norwegian aid. If one is going to continue this kind of argument, one might say: Why are Norwegian citizens going to pay taxes and give this to help another country? Basically, this debate is about the following: are we against enough, are we bold enough to try to go ahead internationally with other countries – there are many things we disagree about – and try to find out if there are new ways to bring the world forward? The way the right-hand side and the government here have rejected the proposal, disappoints me very much. I think it's sad, and it's not knowledgeable. But I believe you can learn. I believe that the next time we raise this debate, the Minister of Finance and his combat traps have heard the international debate in Stortinget and have seen that even the EU finance ministers, who are not my fighters at all, have taken that debate and made decisions on it. Next time, there may be the UN Security Council doing it, or starting investigation work to do it, or there may be countries that are politically distant from us, that do. So our wish is nothing but this, and I think it is sad that the proposal is rejected. I don't want to politicize this debate, I want us to be able to go that way together. Therefore, the proposal has also been formulated in such a way that it does not conflict with any objectives that some parties or the Government may have. Let me just end by saying that it's sad, because both the Left and the Christian People's Party really agree with this. They really agree, they've programmed exactly the same kind of goals. That is why the Right and Advance Party are really opposed, and they do not have a majority in the Grand Duchy. But it is well in recognition that they are in government, that they have had to give in to this, and it is sad, and it is sad that it has become such a party political debate. But again: I'm sure this debate will come back, and I'm sure other parties will see the wisdom of this, because these are not SV's wise thoughts, there are many people around the world who think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1721	It's a good Norwegian folk expression that says'many screams and little wool', and after hearing Mr. Djupedal's contributions to this debate, I must say that it's rare I've heard such a dramatic imbalance between volume and content. What Djupedal argues for is not what he has been proposing, but something else. He does not need any investigation of anything, he has already taken his stand and knows what the solution is. When he knows so well that these are the right and forward-looking answers, it would have been neat and easy to make a concrete proposal. But what it's difficult to get hold of is what he wants to know in this context, and what it could contribute to. The problem with the approach in the proposal is that there is no address, which is what the money you want to spend through various creative measures is to be used. It's completely unspecified. Is there the general operation of the UN organisation, which the Member States are obliged to finance, and, where appropriate, to replace the direct commitment of the Member States to finance it? Is there any other of the diverse purposes that lie under the UN hat, this is about? What the majority have said in the vote is that the real challenge we face in today's world is the realization of the Millennium Goals, not all other imaginable goals of keeping organisations going. What we have further said is that it is more important that all of the UN Member States follow up on the commitments they have actually made, rather than talking about something else, and instead of drawing attention to global taxation as an alternative to the obligations they themselves are not willing to discharge. It must be possible to see that a large part of the creative ideas that have been launched has just come from those politicians who are far from taking their own national commitment seriously in helping to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals. It's an element of compensatory rhetoric out there and goes into this, which it's hard not to get switched off. So Djupedal says he doesn't want to politicize this. No, good. Then it's a little funny that he's created a Document No. Eight proposals, together with two other representatives from one party. If you're busy not politicizing anything, you'd like to go forward in a slightly different way here in the house. It is also a little surprising that he is trying to present this as a Norwegian domestic policy problem, as a common right-left opposite. It's not. Our perception of this and the ideas you want to explore despite the fact that you have already concluded, is that all of them are bad ideas. They represent a siding where the debate on the major challenges should not be parked. This debate should be kept on the lead, not on the sidelines. Finally, the last argument by Mr Djupedal in favour of the exact idea of an air tax requires me to clarify that environmental taxes that are actually invented for reasons other than the environment, namely, in order to generate income for one purpose or another, are and become illogical. It's a mix of purpose. Either nationally or internationally, there is a mix of purposes that are suitable to derail attention. Finally, a slight remark to the representative Haga, who was kind to the Christian People's Party and the Christian People's Party program. She suggested that it is alarming if a party does not follow a program that is about what you want to do. However, there are actually close examples of parties having significant problems in following their own programme with regard to what they have promised to do. Åslaug Hagas' preferred future government partner SV has in its programme for the current ageing period an unconditional promise to SV's voters that during this period they will make proposals for Norway to leave NATO. 14 days before the end of the period one must be able to see that it was a promise that was not meant to be serious and that was never intended to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1744	I just want to take the floor to ask the representative Djupedal to think a little bit about, simply. If it is such that he meant that he would neither polemize nor politicize, and wanted to stretch out a hand, how could it be that he follows up not only once, but many times and tells that everyone who disagrees with him is both ignorant and has not followed in the hour? It's some sort of self-absorbing that I think is unprofessional. The least Djupedal could do if he wanted a broad connection, was perhaps to respect that there might be other assessments. But for the Socialist Left Party, it's not very nearby. It's a basic question that I think you have to take inwards, and it's that after many decades of debate and investigation, Djupedal also thinks you haven't found anything you could use yet. And when that's the conclusion, it might be time to be a little bit more humble about the fact that there can be other assessments than his own.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2639]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1767	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1783	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1799	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1815	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1831	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1852	The centre party is concerned that we have always the most informed EU debate in Norway. A real EU debate must be based on where the EU stands and in what direction the EU is moving. A central trend in the EU has been the constitutional process. It requires transparency and knowledge of the EU Constitution and is willing to discuss what the Constitution means for Norway through any Norwegian membership. The background to this debate is that it has been difficult to get government and ja page assessments of the content of the EU Constitution. The government has even refused to translate the Constitution into Norwegian. It is a very bad starting point for a broad debate. Nor have Norwegian media wanted to go heavily into what the Constitution actually means for the development of society in the EU and for Norway by any membership. It is an omission from a press in which the heaviest actors declare that they want Norwegian EU membership. Discussions in France, on the other hand, have gone high and wide. The Constitution was for example sent out to all French households, so that people have been given the opportunity to get involved in the political course of the Constitution. There has been a solid democratic process and a knowledge-based debate that has embraced the whole of French society. Over 80 pst. says they have discussed the basic law around the kitchen table or in other forums. 10 pst. says they've read the whole Constitution. It's a very difficult document, so it's quite impressive. Election participation in France and the Netherlands has been above the level of involvement otherwise shown by the population in elections to the European Parliament. The referendums show that when people get knowledge and see the direction the EU is moving, then scepticism is increasing. This was also the case in Norway in the context of the debates held in 1972 and 1994. In France, 55 p.m. voted. by the French people no to the EU Constitution, after an election break of more than 70 p.m. This is a crushing victory for no-side, a no-side front of Attac and no-side of the Socialist Party and the trade movement. No-side in France, democracy in the EU gave the smooth law and protested against a constitution which they, rightly, see as a foundation for market liberalism. This is a fundamental criticism of the entire EU project from one of the founding EU countries. Almost 62 pst. the electorate voted against the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union in the Dutch referendum. Both the number of negatives and the turnout of close to 63 pst. was higher than expected. Yes-page in Norway says that the debates in France and the Netherlands were fundamentally different because no questions were asked about membership itself, and that is the right thing to do. Nor have I ever said that what has been decided on in the French and Dutch referendums is the question of whether or not these countries should be members of the EU. But what is interesting about the Norwegian debate is that the arguments among those who believe the EU is going in the wrong direction are exactly the same as those we use on the no-page in Norway. They are primarily linked to democracy, and they are linked to the establishment of a specific economic direction, namely neoliberalism. Under the EU's own rules, the outcome in France and the Netherlands was to result in the death of the Treaty. What happens next is not finally resolved until the mid-June EU summit. However, on Wednesday, Barroso and Juncker made it clear that ratification processes must continue in the other EU countries. At the same time, they warned in strong order against ‘unilateral actions’ – a clear warning to the British. The EU summits in Brussels are looking for ways to escape the judgment of the people so that the Constitution can be passed. There is no wonder that France and the Netherlands may have to vote again. State leaders in France and the Netherlands, Chirac and Bolkenende, respectively, recommend that the ratification process should continue in the other Member States despite the fact that no in their own countries. It is hardly an expression of democratic reason. ‘It’s such an elitist approach to their own people that I almost don’t find words for it’, to quote the EU’s followers and professor of state science Frank Aarebrot. The EU project is an elite project. We have now been shown that people have not been brought with them to the development of the EU. So now it looks like you're going to force the process forward, regardless of what the people are saying. It is worth noting that Erna Solberg insists that a new EU application must be sent from Norway in 2007, and Thorbjørn Jagland follows up by saying that the French EU vote does not mean anything new to Norway. It shows the importance of the EU case in the decision making process for the autumn. So back to the contents of the Constitution. A specific feature of the EU basic law is its enormous scope, both in terms of its number and content. It is not just constitutional that the EU's policy areas are to be addressed. The direction of policy is also largely indicated and in practice makes it impossible to change the liberalist regime, which currently has the basis both in the EU and, to a large extent, internationally. A number of articles in the Constitution are, in our opinion, extremely problematic. National sovereignty is powdered. This is reflected in Articles I to 6: EU law is above national laws, and Articles I to 122: the EU can extend its competence to emerging areas, and Articles I to 13: the EU has the exclusive right to govern monetary policy – for euro members – trade policy, customs union, competition rules for the internal market and fisheries policy for all others. In these areas, the EU can make laws. But also in the areas of shared responsibility, the EU has power. Member States may only adopt laws in areas to the extent that the EU does not. Where conflicts arise, Union law shall always prevail, as set out in Articles I to 10,1. Sickness in areas where the EU initially has only ‘supporting, coordinating and complementary’ measures, as stated in the Constitution, is the grip on Member States. For: How much freedom the Member States actually have, for example. in industrial policy, when the EU has sole responsibility for competition policy and what state aid can be authorised? The Constitution states that the EU should coordinate the economic and labour market policies of the Member States and have a common employment policy. It is difficult to understand that EU labour market and employment policies are something to be pursued. Among other things, unemployment in the EU is twice as high as in Norway. The Charter of Fundamental Rights speaks of the right to work, not of the right to work. I am surprised that the Labour Party does not have any critical comments on such an approach. But it may not be random, all the time the Constitution continues and reinforces the economic policy that so far has not helped to solve the employment problems in the EU. Articles I-12,4 require the EU to implement a common foreign and security policy, including a common defence policy. The most problematic of these is that in many areas Norway has completely different interests than the EU, not least in our role as energy supplier of both hydropower and oil, as opposed to the EU, which is a large consumer country. The centre party values the possibility of pursuing an independent foreign policy very high. We can talk with a maritime voice in the WTO and the UN, and we can be an important supporter for developing countries in matters of global distribution and environmental issues, just to mention some areas. I could normally keep ramming things up half the night, but I see that the time is running out, and then I will ask the Foreign Minister what he thinks about the Constitution general, and the articles that I have now mentioned specifically. What part of the Constitution is the Foreign Minister positive about, and what parts does he think is bad for Norway? It would have been useful to get the Foreign Minister's assessments of this, all the time his party wants us into the EU as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1897	Before I start answering the question, I would like to say that this is one of the strangest interpellations I've had in a while. It is true that when the members of the Government meet in the Grand Duchy, it is to defend the government's policy or to explain the impact of its policy. Now, what I'm asked about is to explain the effects of what is not the government's policy. It is such that the Sem Declaration makes it quite clear that this government does not have EU membership on its agenda. I've been here for 24 years, in different roles, and I actually have to say that on the move I can't remember that some minister has been interpolating about the impact of a policy that is not government policy. Not least, we now have a concrete situation in which it is highly doubtful how this Constitutional Treaty will proceed. This is therefore more marked by a general debate meeting than by a big meeting. I'd love to, but then I think we should make it clear that that's what it is. I guess it got a little rough when I wasn't interpellent as a state councillor, but as a party member. I actually think it's also the first time a party member has been interpolated in Stortinget. But given that on Friday afternoon you can do something freer about the formalities, I'd like to be allowed to reflect a little on the question, if that's all right for the president. The Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, which is the official name of the new EU Treaty, sets out the objectives and development of EU cooperation. As the governments of our neighbouring country Denmark and Sweden, I choose to use the term Constitutional Treaty. This is not a constitution. This is a treaty concluded between Member States in accordance with general principles of international law. It can only be changed if all countries agree. The Constitutional Treaty shall not enter into force until it has been ratified in accordance with the constitutional provisions of the Member States. As I said, we have just had votes in two countries. The Treaty has already been treated in ten countries, and today it has been accepted in countries with a total of 49 p.m. of the population of the European Union. There is no doubt that the two referendums we have now had will raise the question of how and to what extent this work can go on. As Thorbjørn Jagland has been involved in an earlier debate today, it is well, to say it a little cautious, slightly different perceptions of what the voters have actually said no to. Many are afraid of losing jobs or well-being, and there is general uncertainty about the future. It has to be taken seriously. These challenges are not solved by less European cooperation, or by each country alone trying to meet globalisation, a development that in any case takes place. The population in France and the Netherlands have also not said no to continuing membership of the EU. The Constitutional Treaty primarily involves the simplification, efficiency and democratisation of EU cooperation. This happens, among other things: through consolidation of previous Treaties and key principles established by the European Court of Justice. There is no basis for saying that, if the Treaty enters into force, there will be a dramatic transfer of new powers to the institutions of the European Union. Nor does the Treaty give the EU the right to constantly extend its powers to new areas in the future. On the contrary, the Constitutional Treaty explicitly states that it is the EU Member State that has created and governs the EU, not the other way round. Article I-11 shows that the EU has only the responsibilities that Member States choose to give to the EU. It will be up to each Member State and under their constitution to decide whether or not the institutions of the European Union will be empowered in new areas. It is also made clear that each Member State is free to leave the EU on its own initiative, as set out in Articles I to 60. The Constitutional Treaty does not replace the constitutions of the Member States. They are replacing the many treaties that are the basis for EU cooperation today. The aim has been to clean up these texts and give them a more transparent and easily accessible form. The Constitutional Treaty therefore contains not very much new things, except for the initial sections on institutional issues and the provision making the EU's obligations to respect fundamental human rights not only politically but also legally binding. It is true that Article I-6 of the Constitutional Treaty states that EU law takes precedence over national laws. There is no new principle in the EU. It was established by the European Court of Justice in the 1960s. Member States cannot choose for themselves whether to fulfil their EU legal obligations by reference to national law. The new provision of the Constitutional Treaty reflects the case-law of the courts in this area. I recall here that the EEA Agreement takes the same account through other legal instruments, through a clear obligation to implement the EU obligations under Norwegian law, and that through the EEA Act, Stortinget has decided that Norwegian EEA legislation should prevail if there is a conflict with other Norwegian legislation. With regard to the EU's right to govern monetary policy, it should not be necessary to recall that the provisions on economic and monetary union were part of the so-called Maastricht Treaty of 1992. The Constitutional Treaty does not represent a significant new element in this respect. The derogation is the formalisation of the Eurogroup, a cooperation body for the finance ministers of the countries that have adopted the euro. Already in the 1958 Treaty of Rome, EU countries established a common commercial policy. Unlike the EEA, EU countries have a customs union which also implies a common external trade policy vis-à-vis third countries. Both the Common Fisheries Policy and the agricultural policy are part of the work of agreement between the original six Member States from 1958. The representative Haga mentions the EU's ambitions to develop a common social policy, employment policy and labour market policy. It is not possible to find the basis for such claims in the new Constitutional Treaty. The Constitutional Treaty, on the contrary, states in Articles I-14 that, inter alia, responsibility for: Social policy and employment policy are shared between the EU and the Member States. This is a clarification of current practice. The provisions of Articles I to 15 on the coordination of economic policies come from the Maastricht Treaty. They help to establish that Member States retain primary responsibility for these areas of activity, as the EU’s main tasks are limited to coordinating or providing broad guidelines. In practice, this is often done through so-called open coordination through non-binding decisions, examples of best practice and common indicators. The relevant provisions on social policy and employment policy set out in Part III of the Treaty have been withdrawn from the Treaties in force, and cooperation on these issues remains largely unchanged. The objective of Part I of the Treaty on full employment, equality and solidarity between generations, cohesion and justice is as if it were withdrawn from a Norwegian party programme. In my view, the Constitutional Treaty, as it now stands, can, in general, be characterised as a consolidation treaty. The Treaty aims at clarifying the EU’s overall value base. It is also established that the EU is a voluntary cooperation between Member States, which together determines the tasks to be entrusted to the EU. The governments of our neighbouring countries have rejected the fact that the Treaty would involve a dramatic transfer of new powers from Member States to the EU. Most areas of cooperation are continued unchanged or with minor adjustments. In my opinion, the Constitutional Treaty will provide the EU with a better basis for looking at issues in the context. It is particularly important in foreign policy, because new challenges, not least the threat of terrorism, cannot be met either with military instruments alone or with traditional resolution diplomacy. Trade, aid and judicial reform must also be seen in this context. The Constitutional Treaty will increase the possibility of coordinating different instruments. The previous pillar structure of the Maastricht Treaty, such as: a strict, formal distinction between foreign policy and justice policy will be eliminated. The Treaty provides for the establishment of a new position as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the EU. The Member States have already decided that the post should go to Javier Solana. I think that's a reasonable choice. Even the largest European countries are becoming small in the face of new competitors on the world market, China and India. EU enlargement will help to strengthen European countries in response to global challenges and increase international competition. It is also in Norwegian interest for the EU to become a more visible global player. An enlarged EU that also takes responsibility in our neighbourhoods and contributes to building peace and reconciliation, ensuring the rule of law and strengthening human rights and well-being is, of course, also in our interest. Nevertheless, there must be no doubt that EU foreign policy will continue to be anchored in the Member States. Cooperation on foreign, security and defence policy issues shall continue on an intergovernmental basis and, as a general rule, continue to be determined on the basis of unanimity. In the field of justice and home affairs, the Constitutional Treaty means that acts and measures will essentially involve decisions by a qualified majority and the involvement of the European Parliament. It is worth noting that this has already been achieved to a significant extent using the opportunities provided by the Amsterdam and Nice Treaties. When the EU set in motion a new treaty, it was not least to make the EU simpler, a more effective EU and a more democratic EU. This is why the Treaty increases the tasks of elected bodies. [[The President clubs.]] If I may, President, I have one and a half sides left...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1948	It was a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1951	Then I'd like to end up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1956	You could do another half of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1959	No, I think we end here. This is going to take a while anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1964	On the basis of what was the beginning of the Foreign Minister's reply, the President wishes to quote from Storting's Rules of Procedure: «In the course of the treatment in Stortinget, the word "interpellant" shall first be given for a maximum period of 10 minutes to explain the content of the interpellant. If a member of the government declares that no response to the interpellation will be given, negotiations will end with this.» The President was a moment in doubt about what the Foreign Minister would do, but when he chose to answer the interpellation, the President had to let the negotiations continue. The interpellant will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e1974	There was no unconditional enthusiasm in the President's mention of this process, but I take note of that. Knowledge of the Constitution has been important in the referendums in France and the Netherlands. There has been an informed debate, and texts of the Constitution have been translated. As we know not in Norway – Regeringen will not translate the Constitution into Norwegian – so I have to relate to Danish text. I guess we should, but that's why it sounds a little funny. I have to comment that the Foreign Minister says that in terms of employment policy, labour market policy and social policy, the EU will not move on with its ambitions to create common policies. It is thus stated in the basic law on employment policy: ‘The Union shall take measures to ensure coordination of the employment policies of the Member States, in particular by establishing guidelines for those policies.’; It goes on to say: "The Union may take initiatives to ensure coordination of the social policy of the Member States." There can be no doubt that this means a development towards coordination and common policies in these areas. The Union can therefore take measures, as it says, to achieve this. When I was in France recently, one of the factors that emerged was that this EU basic law is very unclear. It was even said that signing on this Constitution is like signing on a blank sheet. This has been said correctly, because it is also stated in the Constitution: ‘Member States shall exercise their competence to the extent that the Union has not exercised or ceased to exercise it.’; In addition, it states that ‘the EU Act is above national laws’. I have to say from this point of view, not least because it says that Member States exercise their competence to the extent that the Union has not exercised it, that it is quite remarkable that the Foreign Minister says that this represents only a consolidation treaty, in the sense that it opens all doors for further integration in all the areas referred to in the Constitution. There can be no doubt that this Constitution represents something new, and that is also understood by the French and Dutch voters. They say that there's a material content here that they've chosen to say no to. [[The President clubs.]] If we had interpreted this no-one in any other way... [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2003	Does the Foreign Minister wish to speak?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2007	Yeah, maybe the president's opening. I understand very well that the President made me aware of the regulations. I have a desire to be available and participate in the debates, so when the Storting first sends the interpellation over, I will be as attentive as possible, but I understand that in the President's view, there is a question of wisdom. I just have to say that I can divide it in and out. This is not really the best place for what we are now in, almost a seminar on how to interpret this. I have neither adopted nor developed the Constitution, so I have to interpret as best I can, but I will stand on what I have said to this extent are my assessments. I think it's more Åslaug Haga's political glasses than her understanding of Danish that has led her in the direction she went, but I want to hold on to what I said about this. So we are in the situation that we have not applied for EU membership, and therefore I have nothing to defend in this context. I think this is a debate that is better suited to the general political change of words, where time is given to sit down and go through each provision. It might be useful, but then I think maybe the format should be different than what we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2016	As regards the content and interpretation of the EU basic law, I would just like to point out one of the examples mentioned by the interpellant that the EU law is above national law. There is nothing new with the so-called Constitutional Treaty. It has been part of EU law since 1964. Since then, a number of European countries have joined this cooperation entirely on a voluntary basis and with quite a stir. When the inter-pellant characterises EU cooperation as an elite project – a cooperation that has been going on for 50 years, which started with six countries, and now has 25 countries, which have been through referendums in several countries, and which has been through a number of parliamentary elections in very many of these countries – and she claims that this has been trodden down the heads of the population, I think it is a characteristic of international democratic and political cooperation that ‘I almost cannot find words for’ – as the election researcher said. In a world where we become more dependent on each other, we need more committed cooperation. I do not understand how obligating cooperation between countries can be binding if one is not willing to give up sovereignty in order for it to become effective. In the interview that was given to the evening post while she was visiting France, we got a little insight into what is the interpellant’s alternative. On the question, ‘What is your alternative vision of European cooperation’, she replied, if she is correctly quoted — and I suppose so, as no corrections have been made: ‘A system in which national states cooperate, where they have common interests, where decisions are taken by national parliaments without the supranationality of the EU system.’ Is it a system in which the technique is that all parliaments should adopt exactly the same thing as is essential? What, then, is the reality in the right of self-determination? Or should it be a system for the sinks to determine the speed? Then we know that we don't get any special impact. Of course, the votes we have had must lead to changes in the development of EU cooperation. I think we can safely leave that to the countries that are in it. But what I think is a cross of thought, is that studies show that a lot of the reactions that are expressed are reactions to enlargement. This gives rise to concern that it will weigh on the economic development of its own country. The vision that no-since 1994 did not believe, namely that Eastern Europe should also be integrated into EU cooperation, has become real. This results in a counter-reaction in countries that could lead to further expansion and integration, not least for Turkey, being exposed. That, I think, is a consequence of this that many people after a time will think is sin.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2034	The basis for this highest-required interpellation has in some ways disappeared after France and the Netherlands said no. After all, it is a pleasure that the interpellation is no longer necessary, because the basic EU law is as good as basic and dead. Tony Blair and Jack Straw can definitely do it in the next week. They can then turn the last nail into the EU basic law. It says to look. It's up to them to decide what will happen. Without focusing on the internal debates in the various EU countries, we welcome the fact that it has something to do with referendums, listening to referendums, and respecting them. That's an important principle for us in SV. I just want to back up on the good intentions of the interpellant. But it seems that this has solved itself. I don't think it's going to be so much in the upcoming election campaign – we're going to call it – travel in the yes page.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2043	We have just experienced politicians and newspapers who mock us who voted no to the EU and those who said no to the EU in the constitutional votes in France and the Netherlands. Those who opposed were called foreign haters, reactionaries and communists by Norwegian newspapers and Norwegian politicians. There were such politicians French and Dutch voted against, as much as the new Constitution. It was the human disdainful systems they voted against, the systems that won't take seriously or understand the people who say they live in fear. French and Dutch people live in fear because they have a huge unemployment rate, because they are losing more and more of the common good – social security is getting smaller, pensions are getting smaller and wages are getting lower. It was the big capital, the international globalised big capital, and the anti-human state bureaucracy that was fought down by the people of the Netherlands and France. People in France and the Netherlands have not been able to see anything positive in the EU in recent years. They've seen visions, yes. They've seen dreams, yes, but they haven't seen results. The reason is very simple. The dream of the European Union as a peace project is a great dream, but as a reality it is false. The EU itself has a lot to become a military power, and military powers are used for intervention, conquest and repression of smaller countries. Head of the Central Party, Åslaug Haga, is right. The EU proposal for a new constitution states that the EU law is above national laws. The EU can extend its competence to emerging areas. The EU can coordinate the economic and labour market policies of the Member States. The EU shall implement a common foreign and security policy, including a common defence policy. The EU has the exclusive right to govern monetary policy, trade policy, customs union, competition rules for the internal market and fisheries policy. We have seen how, in the 1990s, the Workers' Party complied with the competition rules in the EEA and reorganized thousands of industrial workplaces. What can we expect when Åslaug Haga and Thorbjørn Jagland sit in the same government? Will a red-green government option continue the transfer of our common fishing resources by Schjøtt-Pedersens and the Workers' Party's other fisheries ministers to a few private fishermen and shipowners, as they have added in Finnmark? Such developments are in a good EU spirit. The EU Constitution means that the EU has the exclusive right to conclude international agreements. We get to wave goodbye to Norway as a peace nation if we choose the Workers' Party and the Right Road. The EU will have a common employment policy. We are concerned about the few Poles coming to Norway. Think, then, of what it is like in Germany, with the hundreds of thousands from former Eastern Europe tearing down the social security and wage levels of Germans! It must be clear that this is not the case in Norway, although the pension reform can be seen as an EU adaptation. The pension shall be cheaper and more unsocial. The EU demands a common social and labour market policy. No political governance of monetary policy is permitted. Firstly, this will be the union of banks and funds. Secondly, rurals and districts are being disqualified. And thirdly, we should get the banks to start working again in North Norway, before we do fiscal policy in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2060	This evolves into a colorful and diverse debate. I understand at the last speaker that he really believes that it was a mistake to tear down the Berlin wall, it would have been more tidy if it had remained standing. Otherwise, I share the opinion of the representative Jacobsen: this interpellation is groundless. It was groundless when it was submitted, and today it is double groundless. What the interpellant is doing is actually insisting on what is commonly called discussing the snow that fell last year in Norway. But in this case, it is the snow that is not fallen, you insist on discussing, and then you demand that the Norwegian government participate in the exercise. It is true that what we have witnessed when it comes to the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty in the EU, with ambiguity, confirms that the scarecrow that the interpellant is trying to hold on so that she can cut pieces out of it for internal use in Norway, it is nothing but a scarecrow. The ratification process shows that each Member State has to decide on the Treaty in its own right in respect of its own machinery. Similarly, the proposal for the Constitutional Treaty contains a paragraph which states explicitly that each Member State is able to decide sovereignly whether to continue to be a member of the Union. It is difficult to understand that it should be a ‘super-state’ in some normal language usage in this world. It is also difficult to understand that the interpellant can claim that there is a lack of democratic mentality when some leaders in EU countries say that the process will continue so that people in all Member States can take their stand, possibly the elected political bodies. In the opinion of the inter-pellant, it would be exemplary democratic thinking if a majority of the voters in one of the countries had taken the position to deprive all the others of the opportunity to consider the matter. In Norway, the term ‘democratic deficit’ is often used. I have to say that the thinking of the interpellant is really a radical expression of a democratic deficit – a process of thinking based on its own position and saying that if its own position gets through, there is no reason for others to have the opportunity to take a stand at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2076	I can basically agree that there is a bit of a strange interpellation, because it comes from a party that believes that Norway should absolutely never face a situation in which we were to decide on this Constitutional Treaty, and which requires us to decide on it anyway – in a situation where the interpellant believes it has actually fallen away. Even more strangely, I think they have been, the very many bastant claims in the debate about why it was no in France and the Netherlands, and about what is going to happen. I really think there should be time for a little more wonder and reflection on what has actually happened, why it has happened, and what is going to happen. And when Bjørn Jacobsen states that the last nail in the Constitutional Treaty is now turned on, it covers some other facts, namely that most of the things contained in the Constitutional Treaty are otherwise enshrined in the Treaty, to which the EU falls back. So it doesn't go away. And if it were to go away, I think the no-side would also dislike it here in Norway, because then the whole system would go into disintegration, and we would see a renationalisation of policy in Europe. But I must remind you that Schengen cooperation will last. The veterinary agreement – which the central party in the government took the initiative to participate in – will last. Defence and security cooperation — which was decided by the Bondevik I government that Norway should be in favour — will last. The internal market will exist. Although the Central Party is contrary to the EEA Agreement, we are linked to the internal market through it. The euro will pass. So this whole treaty, Rome, Maastricht and Nice, does not fall away as a result of what has happened in France and the Netherlands. I think that might be what we should now start discussing in Norway: what are we going to do with this? And then maybe I think we'll wait and see a little bit before we draw some great conclusions about what's going to be the result of the French and Dutch referendum, because it's still a little bit uncertain. And before we know a little bit more, I think it's wise for a small country like Norway to have a slightly balanced relationship with it, and have an opening so that very much can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2088	I have to say I was a little surprised at the foreign minister's attitude to this interpellation debate. If it's the case that you don't want to take part in an interpellation debate on the part of the Government, it might be good to say from the outset. Interpellation debates in Stortinget are about themes in time. On Monday we had a debate about Menière's disease. The government has had no attitude to this earlier, but the Council of State has expelled the custom of getting into the Storting and participating in the debate. On Thursday, we had an interpellation debate about curriculums in school. Nor was it something that the Government necessarily had any attitude to, but the Council of State expelled the custom of being part of the debate and participating in the exchange of views instead of using almost all of her post to tell why she did not want to respond to the interview. And it would have been expected that the Foreign Minister had gone into this debate with a little bit more seriousness and with a little less obvious contempt for the Central Party and the interpellant than what he has done here. I'm surprised. We have been through a week of events within the European Union that are very important, which will probably lead to a very wide-ranging debate within the Union, and this could be a first opportunity for the Norwegian collapse to also enter into a broader Europe debate – not one last occasion, in which I share the view of Jagland. We don't know what's going to happen, many things might happen in the future. This debate must continue, but today could actually have been the first opportunity to go into it. Today we see that there are reactions from Italy around the euro, the CDU in Germany is talking about Turkey's membership, Ireland is assessing whether it is necessary to hold a referendum if there is nothing to hold a referendum on. I think we are facing a very wide-ranging debate within the European Union, and that debate has a sound base on the subject, which we also find in Norway in the debate on the European Union and Europe, among others. the relationship to well-being, economics and rule of the people. It's an important debate, it could have started today if the government parties and the foreign minister had chosen to enter into this debate with a little bit more humility and a little more openness to the Stortinget. But the government parties have no position, no views, no desire to participate in that debate. And then I have to say that if that's the way the government chooses to deal with interpellations, you should say from the outset that you don't want to answer an interpellation. It's common folk.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2099	This has been kind of a strange notion, that's right. But let me try to sum up a little bit. What I have at least got out of this debate is that yes-page does not want to go into the substance of the Constitution. It is a matter of course to understand, in the light of what has happened in the last few days both in the Netherlands and in France, but it is sad that we are going to have an informed EU debate in Norway. In fact, the Right Party is saying that they want an EU debate, a membership debate, in the next big period, and it is strange that you are not willing to go into this topic at a time when this is really one of the big issues on the European agenda. We just have to note that the yes-page does not have the will to go in and discuss substance, content, in this which is now really putting Europe into flames. I can hardly understand this lack of willingness to enter the substance as anything other than that yes-page at any time is for the EU that exists, completely regardless of the direction this project takes. Then I have to say that I think it is a bit alarming that SV's Bjørn Jacobsen has already laid the foundation law dead – it has a rather scarce determination in the EU system. All the experience we have from processes in the EU where people have been critical, where people have said no, is that the project goes on anyway. It stumbles and goes in the same direction. You find a way around the popular resistance. We saw it in the Maastricht Treaty when the Danes said no in 1992. They got their four exceptions, but the project rolled on completely independently of it. We saw that when the Netherlands said no to the Treaty of Nice, they were only forced to vote once a year later. The project went its way, the development was the same, the direction was the same. So the experience we have with the EU system is that this system has an adventurous ability to overlook the popular resistance. That's why I think we're wise to admit that what's most likely to be the consequence of the popular resistance we've seen in Europe now is that the project is going on, it's going to stumble on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2109	Of course, the objection from Marit Arnstad must be dismissed for two reasons: one is that it is my task as a member of the Government to explain the government's policy and its consequences, and I will insist that it was interpolated, that is not the consequence of the government's policy. We haven't decided to apply, and it's going to be a very strange form of wholesale treatment if it's such that you interrupt party members and not the members of a government. It's fundamentally unyielding. The other one, however, is that I answered the interpellation. Most of my post was about responding to the interpellation, I probably had one page left when we had come to ten minutes, but the point is that I went into the main points, so that the description Marit Arnstad gave, in fact, is not correct either. I must therefore be allowed to reject her objection. We were far inside the substance, but it's clear that in a ten-minute answer, there's a limit to how much of such a treaty it's possible to enter. But it's quite interesting, and I also thought – that's why I answered the interpellant's question – that the mantra of the interpellant was that the yes-side would not discuss. Of course, that would also be the answer if I had not answered the interpellation in its entirety, then probably the interpellant would run the country and the beach around and said that would not be done. Investing an hour in a preventative measure seems to me to be worth it. So I answered the interpellation with the exception of the last side, and I want to keep in mind that this is probably an interesting debate, but that is not a position that we as the government have taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2118	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2124	We are now going to make an attempt to go to voting on the issues listed on today's map. But the observer will see that the screens to show the map and the case do not show the map and the case. This indicates that the watering plant is down, and there are few possibilities that we can fix it during this afternoon. What the president does then, is to let vote on the matters that are unanimous, and then the president will propose when we come to the matters where there are relatively sharp votes, that the votes are taken tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2134	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Defence at the Storting meeting on 2 June 2005 concerning the EU's forces of intervention, pre-storage and further efforts in Afghanistan be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2168	Case No. 4 will propose that the President be postponed to voting tomorrow. – This has been endorsed by Stortinget. The votes were taken after the other cases were voted on, cf. page 2639 Case No. 5 will propose that the President be postponed to voting tomorrow. – This has been endorsed by Stortinget. *
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2252	In Case No. No voting theme is available. The president sees that the numbers are now displayed on the screens, and it means, according to the secretary, that the voting system might be in order. The secretary thinks we should try to vote in case no. 4 and Nos 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2265	During the debate, Mr Djupedal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of a 10 billion Solidarity Fund. crowns.’» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2292	During the debate, Mr Djupedal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The government is asking for international taxes as alternative and supplementary sources of income to the UN and how they can be put into practice. Taxes on different financial transactions, international environmental taxes, taxes on arms trade, and taxes from countries acting as tax havens should be considered in particular.2. The Government requests the Government to present proposals on how and where such international initiatives can be taken.’.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-03.ana.ud402e2325	There is no record.
