ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e35	Honourable co-representatives! The former deposit representatives Hanna Kvanmo and Finn Gustavsen are dead. It was with great sorrow that we received the message that Hanna Kvanmo passed away on June 23rd this year. Norwegian policy then lost one of the country's most popular politicians. Hanna Kvanmo was the UK's biggest representative from 1973 to 1989 and the parliamentary leader for twelve years from 1977. She was a member of the Transport Committee for all four of her periods at Stortinget. And she was a member of the Norwegian Nobel Committee for twelve years. Based on the municipality policy in Mo in Rana, she was a strong figure for North Norway and the districts. Hanna Kvanmo was a strong negotiator and often the one who concluded long, important and conflict-filled debates in the United Kingdom with a direct line. It wasn't the big words and the airy visions that Hanna Kvanmo had the greatest sense of. So she rarely quoted large socialist thinkers to substantiate her points. When the Socialist Left Party’s big group sat down and decided many things, she left her honor in being honest and responsible. Hanna Kvanmo got nothing for free. She was among the last national politicians who came from the poor, but who nevertheless ended up in the position of the country's top trust-elect: the bigotry representative. She grew up in Harstad with a lonely and divorced mother, and became even a lonely mother who sloughed hard as a reindeer and cook for some years. Hanna met her Bjarne and had two more children. She was a family-loving and a capable and proud housewife next to work and politics. But single mothers always had a hot defender in Hanna Kvanmo, a gunman who hit those who looked down on women who took care of children alone. Hanna Kvanmo became a nurse when she was very young in the German Red Cross in 1944, and she was in Berlin as an assistant nurse when Hitler fell. For this she was convicted of national betrayal, but avoided soning after the verdict was appealed to the Supreme Court. But it wasn't the first sentence that got heavier for Hanna. In 1974, when she was a newly elected representative of big business, the matter was re-discovered in the media, and a very rough and personally burdensome campaign against her rolled and went. Several demanded that she withdraw as a wholesale representative. But the hard drive and the resistance led on the contrary to respect and popularity in large parts of the population. Solidarity in practice and a strong sense of justice was the driving force of Hanna Kvanmos. In long evenings and late night hours, she herself answered requests from individuals who put their trust in her that she would understand and support them. She was elected in the right sense of the word, and an agent in the corridors of power for small corps throughout the country. She was a raging role model for many women in politics. She has given many courage to be herself and to trust in her own wit and her own experiences. Our thoughts go to Hanna Kvanmo's children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren whom she set so high and was so proud of. It was with great sorrow that we received the message that the party founder Finn Gustavsen passed away on July 20, this year. Finn Gustavsen was one of the most prominent politicians of the postwar period. Finn Gustavsen was born in Drammen in 1926. He started as an aluminum worker before he became a journalist. In 1954 he agreed to start the weekly orientation paper. Orientation created an extended breathing space for alternative thinking on the left-hand side. As a journalist, Finn Gustavsen separated into the environment in Orientation. He was a sharp and striking debater, and mastered the language to the full, both as a writer and as a politician. In the 1961 election, the newly established Socialist People's Party had two representatives on the Stortinget. The party came to the tip of the new Stortinget, and for the first time after the war the Labour Party did not have a majority alone. Finn Gustavsen was elected from Oslo, and became the natural leader of the party. Finn Gustavsen stood out as a modern politician who controlled the new TV media. When the Kings Bay case came up in June 1963, the party had to decide on a motion of censure against the Labour Party government. The Socialist People's Party group ended up killing the Gerhardsen government. For Finn Gustavsen, this was a huge personal and political burden. At the same time, however, he stood out as a courageous politician with great integrity. Find Gustavsen sat at Stortinget until the 1969 elections. In these two periods he was the foremost politician on the left, especially in foreign affairs. His popularity among people was far greater than the upswing if the SF were to say. Finn Gustavsen put the fight against nuclear weapons, the EU and NATO on the political agenda. He was the one who dared tell me about the defects and defects, something many appreciated. For most who have supported the main lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy, it is now easy to see that the corrective action taken by Gustavsen and many others represented was necessary and meaningful for the country. At the 1969 elections, Finn Gustavsen withdrew. He thought that two periods were enough, and that there was a need for rotation. This contributed enough to the Socialist People's Party falling out of the Storting at the 1969 elections. In 1973, Finn Gustavsen was re-elected at Stortinget, now from the Socialist Left Party. He led a group of 16, and there was no small job. The party's largest group of Socialist Left then included many strong people and personalities, and it became a very turbulent period for the party. Finn Gustavsen will be remembered as the founder of the Socialist People's Party and as the person who helped most to create space for a strong and independent left party in Norwegian politics. We remember Hanna Kvanmo and Finn Gustavsen with deep respect and gratitude for their work on the Stortinget, and brighten peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e81	The representatives of Ågot Valle, Rune J. Skjellaaen, Svein Roald Hansen and Martin Engeset, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Finnmark County: Alf E. Jakobsen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Modulf Supplement For Northern Ireland: Søren Fredrik Voie For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen The Workers' Group has been informed that the granted leave of Knut Storberget's representative lapses. – This message is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e124	From the Prime Minister's office there are three letters to Stortinget, dated 17 October 2005. The first letter reads: ‘The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to announce:In the Council of State of His Majesty The King held at 5 p.m. on 17 October 2005. 1100 is determined: Minister of State Kjell Magne Bondevik, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen, Councillors Erna Solberg, Dagfinn Høybrätten, Lars Sponheim, Per-Kristian Foss, Odd Einar Dørum, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, Hilde Frafjord Johnson, Laila Davøy, Kristin Klemet, Svein Ludvigsen, Ansgar Gabrielsen, Torild Skogsholm, Kristin Krohn Devold, Børge Brende, Morten Andreas Meyer, Thorhild Widvey and Knut Arild Hareide are granted on application dismissed in grace from their duties as members of the Royal Council of 17 October 2005 at 1. 1300.Jens Stoltenberg is appointed Prime Minister and the following to the Council of State from 17 October 2005 at 2.30 p.m. 1300:Stortingsrepresentative Kristin HalvorsenGrandingsrepresentative Ms Åslaug Marie HagaGeneral Secretary Jonas Gahr StøreGrandingsrepresentative Ms Anne-Grete Stroem-ErichsenGeneral Secretary Helen Oddveig BjørnøyAdministrative Director Odd Roger EnoksenChairman Erik SolheimChairman Odd EriksenGrandingsrepresentatives Life Signe NavarseteStandingsrepresentatives Øystein Kåre DjupedalBjarne Håkon HanssenGrandingsrepresentatives Knut StorbergetGrandingsrepresentatives Karita BekkemGrandingsRepresentativesTrond GischeSylvia Kristin BrustadBarnehagereister Heidi Grande RøjsDaglige Manager Terje Riis-JohansenPresident Helga Pedersen» The second letter reads: ‘The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to announce:In the Council of State for H.M. The King held at the Oslo Castle on 17 October 2005 at 7.30 p.m. 13 are determined that the members of the Government take over the management of the departments as follows: the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen, the Ministry of Finance Åslaug Marie Haga, the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Regional Affairs with the exception of the Department of Immigration, the Department of Integration and Diversity and the Ministry of Common Affairs and Minority Policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Department of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, the Ministry of Defence, the Department of State, Helen Oddveig Bjørnøy, the Ministry of Environment and the Environment Odd Roger Enoxsen, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Council of State Erik Solheim, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Children's Affairs and the Ministry of Research, and the Ministry of Children's Affairs, the Council of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Trade, the Council of the Council of the Council of State of the Environment, the Environment, the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the Ministry of Social Affairs of Social Affairs of Social Affairs of Social Affairs and the Environment, the Council of Social Affairs and the Social Affairs of the Social Affairs of the Social Affairs of Social Affairs and the Social Affairs of the Social Affairs of the Social Affairs of the Social Affairs of the Social Affairs of the Children and the Children and the Ministry of the Children and the Children and the Children and the Ministry of the Children and the Ministry of the Children and the Ministry of the Children's and the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Environment, and the Environment, and the Environment, and the Ministry of Children's Departments Departments Departments Departments Departments of Social Affairs of Children's of Children's Departments of Children's of Children's of Children's Departments and the Environment, and the Environment, as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well In addition, he is responsible for the management of the Immigration Department, the Integration and Diversity Department and the Joint and Minority Policy Department of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and Police Karita Bekkemelme, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, with the exception of the parts of the Department of Children and Youth of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, which is responsible for the Ministry of Children's Affairs and Children's Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, and for the management of the Department of Alcohol and Drugs in the Welfare Policy Department of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Council of State, Heidi Grande Røys, the Ministry of Modernisation, the Council of State, Terje Riis-Johansen, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Health and Social Affairs, the Department of Welfare, the Department of Health and Welfare, the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. If the Council of State, Kristin Halvorsen, has also lapsed, the Council of State, Åslaug Marie Haga, and then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jonas Gahr Støre, acts as deputy. If these state councils have also lapsed, the first of the present members of the Prime Minister's functions is carried out.The Council of State Erik Solheim is authorised to chair the board of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when the Minister of Foreign Affairs is absent.The Council of State Heidi Grande Røys is appointed as Norway's representative in the Nordic Council of Ministers with the special task of being responsible for coordinating Nordic cooperation issues.» The third letter reads as follows: ‘The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to announce:In the Council of State for H.M. The King held at the Oslo Castle on 17 October 2005 at 7.30 p.m. 1300 are the following State Secretary appointed: Secretary of State Vegar Solhjell, for Prime Minister Jens StoltenbergPolicy Advisor Hege Solbakken, for Prime Minister Jens StoltenbergDistrict Secretary Svein Fjellheim, for Prime Minister Jens StoltenbergDirector Morten Wetland, for Prime Minister Jens StoltenbergInformation Counsellor Torbjørn Giever Eriksen, for Prime Minister Jens StoltenbergPolicy Advisor Rita Hørrvik, for Prime Minister Jens StoltenbergSecretary, for Councillor Kristin HalvorsenSpecial Envoy Geir Axsen, for Councillor Kristin Halvorsen The President proposes that these three letters be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The change of government entails the following changes in the composition of the Storting: The former members of the government, Jan Petersen, Erna Solberg, Lars Sponheim, Laila Davøy, Per-Kristian Foss, Odd Einar Dørum, Dagfinn Høybräten and Børge Brende take the seat as representatives. The following alternates meet as representatives at the time representatives Jens Stoltenberg, Kristin Halvorsen, Åslaug Haga, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, Liv Signe Navarsete, Øystein Djupedal, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Knut Storberget, Karita Bekkemellem, Trond Giske and Sylvia Brustad are members of the Government: For Akershus County: Dagfinn Sundsbø For Hedmark County: Ivar Skulstad and Thomas Breen For Hordaland County: Day Ole Teigen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Svein Gelseth For Oslo: Truls Wickholm and Heidi Sørensen For Sogn and Fjordane County: Erling Sande For the North-Trundellag County: Arild Stokkan-Grande For the South-Trundellag County: Arne L. Haugen and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Ivar Skulstad from 19 October onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Tone Merete Sønsterud, is called to meet during the period of leave. Other alternates of the Hordaland County, Tove Linnea Brandvik, and other alternates of Oslo, Kjell Erik Øie, are proposed to meet under the directors Hilde Magnusson Lydvos and Marianne Marthinsen, respectively. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tove Linnea Brandvik and Kjell Erik Øie are proposed for the time they meet for representatives Hilde Magnusson Lydvo and Marianne Marthinen respectively. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tove Linnea Brandvik and Kjell Erik Øie are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e361	The President requests a new member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e364	I'm proposing Jan Petersen instead of Haarek Elvenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e371	Erna Solberg has proposed Jan Petersen instead of Haarek Elvenes, who has stepped out of the Stortinget. Other proposals are not available – and Jan Petersen is unanimously elected as a new member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e385	The President first requests proposals for new members of the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e388	I propose Thorbjørn Jagland instead of Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e395	Thorbjørn Jagland is proposed instead of Knut Storberget, who has entered the government. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e400	I suggest Inge Ryan instead of Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e407	Inge Ryan is suggested instead of Kristin Halvorsen, who has entered the Government. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e412	I allow myself to suggest that Erna Solberg goes in for Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e419	Erna Solberg is proposed instead of Kari Lise Holmberg. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e424	I allowed myself to suggest that Dagfinn Høybräten join the election committee instead of Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e431	Dagfinn Højbrätten has been proposed as a new member of the Electoral Committee instead of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e436	I suggest Lars Sponheim instead of Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e444	Lars Sponheim has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee instead of Gunnar Kvassheim. Several proposals are not available, and the President proposes that they be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e455	The President then asks for proposals for new alternates to the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e458	I allow myself to propose that Kari Lise Holmberg go in as an alternate instead of Svein Flätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e465	Kari Lise Holmberg is proposed as a new alternate instead of Svein Fleet. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e470	I allowed myself to suggest that Ingreigt S. Sørfonn enter as an alternate in the place of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e477	Ingreigt S. Sørfonn is proposed as a new alternate instead of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e482	I suggest Erling Sande instead of Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e489	Erling Sande has been proposed as a new alternate to the Election Committee instead of Liv Signe Navarsete, who has joined the Government. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e494	I propose Gunnar Kvassheim as a new alternate instead of André N. Skkelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e501	Gunnar Kvassheim has been proposed as a new alternate instead of André N. Skkelstad. Several proposals are not available, and the President proposes that they be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e519	After the election on 12 September, Stortinget was given a new majority – a majority who wanted a new policy and a new government. That is why the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have assumed responsibility for forming a majority government. We want to change the content of the policy, and we want to change the form of the policy. We will pursue a policy for more community and justice. We need to change the form of politics by being a majority government. It provides more predictability and clearer responsibilities between government and magnification. The government will build its policy on the political platform of the three parties developed on Soria Moria. Norway is the society of opportunity. We have great natural resources and pristine nature. We have long democratic traditions. We have a high level of education and competence. We want to seize these great possibilities. With them we're going to create values, and we're going to divide fairly. We have to create to have something to share. And if we're good at sharing, we're also good at creating. Good education for all, strong public welfare services and gender equality contribute to the creation of value in society and to the competitiveness of enterprises. The Scandinavian model implies that both the well-being of people and the competitiveness of businesses are at a global standstill. We're going to take care of that, and we're going to build on that. The broad lines of Norwegian foreign policy will be firm. The government will work for a UN-led world order on the basis of international law. The pillars of our international commitment will be our membership of NATO, the EEA Agreement and the fact that Norway is not a member of the EU. Within these frameworks, we will be active in creating a better and safer world. We will be drivers in the fight against poverty and in international environmental work. We want to be a clear nation of peace. We will lead in the process of eradicating the debt of the poorest countries. We will increase the allocation of development cooperation to 1 pst. of national income and further escalating efforts during the period. We will make a significant contribution to the UN Emergency Aid Fund and have a strong commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS. Together with others, we must ensure that the world's children are vaccinated against the most dangerous diseases. The government will use NATO to further develop the transatlantic partnership. New security policy challenges shall be addressed with new instruments. We will complete the mission of Norwegian staff and training officers in Iraq. Norwegian participation in the ISAF forces in Afghanistan shall be strengthened and the mandate for Norwegian participation in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan will therefore not be renewed. The government will have a modern defense and will strengthen the financial management of the Defence. Defence shall be adapted to the new safety challenges. We will increase participation both civil and military in the UN peacekeeping work, with emphasis on Africa. The northern regions will be Norway's main strategic focus in the coming years. The Government will strengthen efforts to assert Norwegian sovereignty and ensure the sustainable management of the rich fisheries and energy resources in the area. The policy of the North shall ensure the environment, housing and industrial development. We will further develop cooperation with Russia and our other partners in the north. We have always had strong ties with the rest of Europe. We must also strengthen these in the years to come and pursue an active European policy. We will cooperate with the EU based on the EEA Agreement and ensure active use of all the possibilities offered by the EEAA to safeguard Norwegian interests. The government will pursue a humane and solidarity policy on refugees and asylum, anchored in Norway’s international commitments and on the ground of the rule of law. We will strengthen efforts to get foreigners out of the country who are staying illegally in Norway and actively work to get back agreements with several countries. We want to counter discrimination, while clearly conveying that it is assumed that all citizens are obliged to participate actively and to end up with the laws and the democratic values of society. In the current WTO negotiations, the Government will work to promote the overall Norwegian interests, both to ensure a living agriculture throughout the country and to secure markets for fisheries and the seafood industry. The Government will contribute to increased transparency in the negotiations and as far as possible ensure transparency for the public. We will act as supporters of countries that promote the interests of the poor part of the world. We want a comprehensive review of the impact of the WTO negotiations on Norwegian agriculture. The government will lead a policy of work to all. That is why we must have an active industrial policy and a responsible economic policy. We want to strengthen labour market policy through several action areas, a youth guarantee for all under 25 years of age and an action guarantee for the long-term unemployed. There will not be work for everyone without a working life for everyone. That is why we want to combat hidden unemployment through a more inclusive working life. We will reverse weaknesses in workers' rights and strengthen efforts to prevent social dumping. Proposals for this will be made before Christmas. This government chooses work for all and common well-being over new tax reliefs. In order to ensure well-being, the public sector needs to be strengthened. Therefore, the public sector needs to be renewed and developed. This is how we can give good services, freedom of choice and participation to our citizens. We aim to ensure that everyone has access to good and equivalent health and care services. No local hospital shall be closed. We will continue work on improving the division of work between hospitals, which promotes improved quality in patient care. The provision to people with mental health disorders should be improved by implementing the mental health escalation plan. We want to draw up a national obligatory escalation plan for the drug field. The government will make a strong commitment to the development of care services. We need more hands in the care work. Our target is 10,000 more elderly people. That's how we're going to ensure the elderly a decent life. Care services shall be a public responsibility. The Government will facilitate good conditions for the voluntary sector as important contributors and complements to public services. We do not want the commercialisation and privatisation of basic public welfare services. The main resource of society is the individual. Therefore, the Government will focus on education and knowledge. This is how we create opportunities both for individuals and for the country as a whole. We will continue and strengthen the main lines of the Knowledge Lift. The government will have more lessons in primary school and more teachers to improve their follow-up. We want to upgrade higher education and increase research efforts in Norway, both economically and in terms of quality. In particular, we will focus on research in areas where Norway has a predominance and high value creation potential. The government sees kindergartens as a voluntary part of the educational cycle. We want to ensure full child care coverage, reduce the price to NOK 2 250 from 1 January 2006 and legalize the right to a place in kindergarten when full child care coverage is reached. The government acceded on 17 October, which is the world's day of poverty. There should be no poverty in the richest country in the world. The government will present a comprehensive plan to eradicate poverty in Norway. We will bring more people back to work, so that more people can live on their own income. We want to improve economic benefits for people living in poverty. A social housing policy shall support the fight against poverty. The government has great ambitions in environmental policy. We will build on the principle of sustainable development and solidarity with future generations, national and international. We will pursue an environmental policy that maintains natural diversity, limits pollutant emissions and facilitates changes in production and consumption patterns. We'll make it easier to be environmentally friendly in everyday life. We will provide the public with the opportunity for natural and outdoor experiences. The weaving line shall be protected against force build-up. We want to introduce a specific statutory protection of Oslomarka and other urban fields. Norway is an energy nation. We have many businesses and thousands of jobs related to the production, processing and development of Norwegian energy resources. We want to maintain the value creation. We want to invest in new renewable energy sources, and we need to impose environmental requirements on other energy production. We want to find solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The government will contribute to the introduction into domestic use of a greater proportion of the natural gas extracted on a Norwegian base, for industrial, energy and transport purposes, within our international climate commitments. Norway shall be the world leader in the environmentally friendly use of natural gas. The State shall participate in the financing of natural gas infrastructure. We want to facilitate CO2 removal and transport. The government will ensure that work is started on establishing a full scale CO2 removal treatment plant on Kårstø and will contribute financially to this. No petroleum activity shall be commenced during the period in Northern Ireland IV. Where the overall management plan is available, for the other sea areas outside the Lofoten and northwards, including the Barents Sea, the areas to be opened and the areas in which no petroleum activity is to be carried out shall be determined. We will facilitate Norway to become one of the leading, innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world. Well-being and good conditions for business are created in cooperation between businesses, workers and the public. The public instrument must be strengthened. We will develop national strategies in business areas such as the marine sector, maritime sector, energy, environment and travel. It is a goal for the Government to facilitate the profitable further processing of Norwegian raw materials in Norway. Traffic is an important prerequisite for settlement, industrial development and resource use across the country. The government will strengthen its commitment to commerce. Air pollution in major cities needs to be reduced through public transport and by bicycle and pedestrian routes. The government will carry out a district policy reverse operation to facilitate equivalent living conditions. Through different instruments and the use of natural resources, the great potential for value added across the country will be unleashed. We want to ensure regional policy considerations and to further coordinate the overall role of the State. We will maintain a living agriculture throughout the country and ensure agricultural income development and social conditions in line with other groups in society. The government will pursue a comprehensive coastal policy. We will launch a wide-ranging investigation to assess the impact of the structural measures put in place for the fishing fleet. There should be three elected levels of government in Norway. The government will start work on a regional reform to establish a renewed and strengthened regional level of government. The government considers a strong and healthy municipal economy to be a prerequisite for a good welfare offer across the country and will implement a multi-annual escalation plan to correct the economic imbalances in the local government sector. In 2006 there will be a significant increase of 5.4 billion DKK in the free revenues of municipalities. Security in society is one of the most fundamental Community tasks. That is why we want a more active fight against crime. We want to prevent better, clarify more, react faster and rehabilitate better. The government will introduce a return guarantee for close follow-up on release from prison. We will offer victims of violence and crime a better offer, while developing measures to prevent violence. In a country where most people have seen it materially well, we should not only have something to live for, but also something to live for. We will therefore strengthen the place of art and culture in society. The government will stimulate increased activity in peak and latitude areas. We will pursue a new and comprehensive voluntary policy. We'll follow the cultural promise by stepping up the cultural effort to 1 pst. of the State budget by 2014. We want to facilitate that the Norwegian Church is an open and inclusive people's church. We want to add to a broad debate on state and church based on the attitude of the Church Committee. The government wants to give every opportunity to develop its abilities, regardless of gender, age, social background, religion, ethnicity, skin color, functional level and sexual orientation. That is why we want to combat all forms of discrimination. We will take care of the obligations towards indigenous peoples and national minorities and ensure that the Sameting process has real influence in policy areas that are important to the Sami community. The government will pursue an economic policy that contributes to continued economic growth. The total level of taxation shall be at the same level as it did in 2004. The rules of action for the use of petroleum revenues shall form the basis for budgetary policy. How far we succeed in achieving our objectives will depend on the economic space we have within a responsible financial framework. The consideration of low unemployment, high employment, stable economic and sustainable development is fundamental to the government’s economic policy. The government will also contribute to a sustainable economy in the long term. Therefore, we will implement the pension agreement entered into by the Stortinge in ours, so that we will have both a fairer pension system and a system that society can finance in the future. If someone had said 100 years ago that Norway would be one of the richest countries in the world in 2005, no one would believe it. In Norway, we have been both capable and lucky. We have managed our resources in the long term, and we have ensured an even distribution of the goods. Let's take together the unique possibilities Norway has. Our task is to make Norway even better — a better country to grow up in, a better country to live, work and develop in and a better country to grow old under dignified conditions, while not being introverted, but engaging even stronger internationally. The government has a majority in the Storting behind it. That doesn't mean it's going to do what it wants. On the contrary. We invite a great deal of cooperation to make Norway better over the next four years. No government can do it alone. We know that the representatives in this room have valuable experience and knowledge – many from long-term political work, others from different sectors of society, parts of the country and municipalities. We need everyone's insight and competence. Organisations, businesses and individuals also need to engage in how to develop Norway and make use of its opportunities. We want to be open, and we want to have dialogue with people throughout the country and with the diversity of organisations, so that we can achieve great results together. In the next four years, the government will work for a Norway with more community and more justice, a Norway that is more sustainable, more internationally committed, better to living than the Norway we took over from. So big challenges, so big a goal, the government will reach out for its work. We look forward to good cooperation with all the parties in the Great Britain in order to achieve these goals, in order to make use of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-19.ana.ud2654e622	The President will propose that the Government's statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
