ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e94	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until the completion of the current map. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e110	As can be seen from the setting, initiatives have been taken to travel a national monument on Småskjær in Drøbaksundet to mark the events at and around the Oscarsburg fortress on 9 April 1940. There is no doubt that if a monument is to be erected on the Small Skjær in Dröbaksundet, it will be a monument marking a significant national event. There is little doubt that the events in Drøbaksundet on 9 April 1940 were crucial for Norway’s opposition to the Nazi attacks on Norway in 1940. The Presidency has therefore found it natural, if a monument is to be erected, that the Storting on behalf of the nation of Norway contributes in such a way that it can become a national monument. Now, however, it is not certain that a monument will be erected. The presidency has been very careful that it is not the Stortinget who is going to make a decision over the people of the region around Drøbak and demand that a monument be erected. Therefore, it will be the municipality of Frogn that is responsible for the procedure necessary both in the municipal bodies and in relation to the population, so that a decision on this can be taken with population integration. Furthermore, the municipality of Frogn must be responsible for dealing with any issues affecting any protection interests in the area. However, if the decision to travel such a monument is taken by the local authorities, the Presidency is determined that the Storting should contribute two thirds of the costs, that it is set at four million. kr in the current year’s budget to cover any costs incurred this year and that the Presidency is authorised to follow up the project. Now it'll probably be the next presidency of the Storting that gets the primary responsibility for this follow-up. If it gets so that a monument is erected, it'll be to hope that it can be finished so that it can be deflected on the 9th of April next year, so that you get a marking in relation to this special date. On behalf of the Presidency, I recommend that Stortinget join the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e121	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2–4 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted. [[Fotation, see page 3103]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e161	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group, by parliamentary leaders, by Prime Minister and Finance Minister, and by other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e172	The Financial Committee gave its opinion on the revised budget on 10 June 2005. The purpose of the budget revision is to adjust the budget in relation to changes in the financial framework conditions, or to make specific changes to the decisions on appropriations which have occurred since the adoption of the ordinary budget. There are relatively modest amendments that the Government has promoted, and it contributes to less noise and concerns about the revised budget. By looking at the press department one can record that there is not exactly a storming interest around the revised budget this time. The examination of the revised budget and negotiations between the Government Parties and the Progress Party have resulted in the Progress Party voting in a subsidiary way for the adjusted approach resulting from the negotiations. The negotiated result lies well beyond the lead position of the Progress Party, but the result nevertheless points in the right direction and we had constructive and solution-oriented negotiations. It was primarily the concern of patients who weighed the most heavily on the Advancement Party. We have agreed to add 700 million to the country's hospital. kr for increased patient treatment and at the same time pushing on the balance sheet requirement, which in itself has a value of approximately DKK 1 billion. The country’s commuters do not lose their tax deduction, the special deduction for age is increased by DKK 1 000, the leavement scheme is continued, and 500 new job-impaired action places are set up. It is also agreed that the Government should draw up a proposal for a new and permanent legislation on the rules of leave that captures both cyclical and seasonal considerations. Another 50 million will be allocated. Dr for racial protection, and we continue to intensify the fight against increased crime through further efforts at prison. With regard to the ongoing hospitalisation in Westfold, it is only clear that the majority believe that the funding of the 6th stage of construction must find its long-term solution. I expect the Department to take the clear signals from the majority and follow up on Health South, so that 6th construction steps this year will be added 40 million. kr. It is also expected that the Ministry will follow up previous statements and commitments and find a long-term financing solution for the 60 million. kr that are incurred each year in increased depreciation and interest rates. The Progress Party has once again contributed to giving the budget a much more social profile than the government provided, which was also central to the budget negotiations in the autumn. Overall, the Progress Party has moved above DKK 8.5 billion during 2005. Of course, we would like to see further redistribution, and unfortunately, the Progress Party is all alone in believing that the country's population should be glad that the country has experienced a sharp increase in oil revenues. However, this agreement has enabled us to achieve a greater impact than we would have achieved through a so-called slump drive in the financial committee. I record that the Workers' Party is desperately trying to claim the opposite, but the truth is that the Workers' Party before the budget agreement was a fact, was out in the media and proclaimed that they would add 500 million to the hospitals. kr. It was only after we found a further cut through negotiations, that the Workers' Party changed its mind, and now so well writes in the setting that the hospitals need NOK 1 billion and not 500 million. kr, which was the starting point of the Workers' Party. This is populist, and very little credible from a party that so badly wants to go back to the government offices. The working party population will obviously not end. Some time ago, the Progress Party promoted proposals to prohibit siblings from marrying each other, and the Labour Party voted against. Just a few days ago, we could see Karita Bekkemelm Orheim in the newspapers talk about something she herself voted down shortly in advance. It should be noted that the Workers' Party is very good at saying one thing and doing something completely different, and it comes from a party that at the same time warns us against a dirty election campaign. Well, by itself you obviously know others. Unemployment is still high in Norway, but blackening the situation then to the degrees that the Workers' Party and SV are trying to do does not last. There are happy signals now coming from large parts of Norwegian business that employment growth will increase over time. There have been major changes in the labour market, not least by the increasing number of people entering the labour market, which also appears to be the explanation — at least some of it — of why unemployment is not falling so rapidly, even if employment growth is rising. Nor is there a full picture of the impact of EU enlargement on the Norwegian labour market, and this may have contributed to the reduction of unemployment in Norway. The rule of action is dead and buried, although both the Government and the Workers' Party claim that this rule is important. During the working hours of this government, the rule of action has broken down by 90 billion kroner. But of course it is very responsible, because it is the government that has proposed it, and then there is no danger to either house, home or job. But when the Progress Party proposes to invest some of our oil wealth in infrastructure, education, health and competitive framework conditions, yes, then there is a danger of house, home and work right away. No one believes any more in this hollow rhetoric. When the Stortinget some years ago cancelled the debt of the Gardermobanen, the main argument was that the money had already been spent. When the Progress Party now proposes to cancel the toll, it is of course a reasonably identical issue. Of course, the majority do not get it, because tolls mean, for the majority in this room, that you do not have to finance road development with the billions you annually charge from the drivers. Think of the hand bill this would have been for the country's drivers, to all the businesses in the districts that depend entirely on transporting their goods through the whole country. But I guess it's only in the election campaign that we'll hear again the Workers' Party's promises to the country's drivers, which they forget every single time the election is over. I have also noticed that the Workers' Party in the public debate rejects the fact that the party will increase taxes and taxes if they come into government. But already in this revised budget we see the contours of the true face of the Workers' Party. Here they come with an increase in the tax on business, while in their rhetoric they are very concerned that unemployment has to decrease. All reasonableness suggests that new jobs are created when enterprises have good and predictable framework conditions. What the Working Party is doing here is the exact opposite. There have been attempts at noise from some brewers who claim that removing a distorting charge would lead to loss of jobs in industry. The elimination of the levy leads to a level playing field, resulting in several companies not paying a levy to the Treasury, and thus to the use of the funds for business development. This also leads to the maintenance of many jobs and businesses around the district of Norway. In yesterday's Address Paper we can read that a former Ringnes peak, Bjørn Bunæs, says that there is a 15-year-old strategy implemented when Ringnes and Carlsberg are now planning to build some business down. Therefore, the brewers should aim at their managers and not come and complain that the industry is now getting more equal conditions of competition. I have never experienced that company managers or trade unions, for that matter, have asked their knees to continue to pay a fee to the Treasury. And if we are to take the strikers seriously in their rhetoric, it must mean that they do not want any lower taxes on alcohol, a lower charge on non-alcoholic beverages, or other packaging charges for that matter. I believe that we need lower charges in these areas as well. Finally, I will be allowed to thank both the Financial Committee and the Minister of Finance for good cooperation over four years. I take this up with me the proposals the Progress Party is promoting either alone or together with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e210	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e215	It was nice to hear the obvious joy of the spokesperson of the Spring Party to get the opportunity to fix some of the errors from last autumn – but only some. The Party is today promoting a proposal asking the Government to come back to next year's budget with a proposal to integrate the three-processing industry into the quota trading system. Today, there is a concrete proposal from the Labour Party that this should be done from 1 July this year. What I am asking is why the Progress Party cannot support this proposal, because it is quite clear that this government has not intended to follow up such a request. Once the Progress Party has found 15 billion dollars to tear down the country's toll stations, plus a few billion to reduce the fuel tax, the reason they can't support the proposal can't be that they haven't found a cure for the 30 million. It costs to remove the CO2 tax this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e227	It could have been tempting to put it back on the Workers' Party. Many proposals have been made in the vote both by the Progress Party and others, so one might be tempted to ask the Workers' Party why they do not support them. Why, for example, does the Workers' Party not support the proposal to clean up the tolls, which would have been a handshake to the companies around the country, or to ordinary hardworking workers? I have not received a single good reason for that. As far as the woodworking industry is concerned, I believe that the Financial Committee, across all the parties, has sought to contribute to finding a solution that will over time be satisfactory for the development of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e234	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Progress Party in the negotiations on the revised national budget accepted that we should not use a penny more of the pension fund. It is a good contribution to ensuring the positive development of the Norwegian economy. Nevertheless, I note that the Progress Party in its alternative proposals wants to spend much more oil money. In the examination of the Pension Commission, the Progress Party as the only party opposed renaming the State Petroleum Fund into the pension fund. My question to the representative Siv Jensen is: why? Is it because it is perhaps more unpleasant to provide a pension fund than to provide a petroleum fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e241	It's a terrible little help to rename the Petroleum Fund to the Pension Fund, as long as you're not willing to take a real discussion about funding the same commitments. The Progress Party tried to record when the treatment of the pension message took place in this room. I record that neither the Right nor any other party that has previously been very concerned with funding seems to mean the same thing anymore. For the sake of order, I want to say that it gets very hollow when Jan Tore Sanner tries to present it as that investing something more of our oil wealth in Norway, in value creation, in growth, in new jobs, in competitive framework conditions, should be the same as putting house, home and work at risk. I remind you once again that this government has spent $90 billion more than what the rule of action was supposed to say, but it is of course very responsible because it is the government that has proposed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e250	Siv Jensen wondered that the brewers did not cheer over the fee bill. There is nothing to be wondered about, because they lose their job because of the tax burden that the Progress Party has demanded and achieved on its own initiative in the budget negotiations. The Progress Party has thus sold 800 Norwegian jobs for Lusne 25 million. kr in the fee bill. And there's something that Siv Jensen can't refuse, because it says the management of the breweries themselves, both in Ringnes, in Hansa Borg and in Coca-Cola, that the result of a removal of the basic charge on PET bottles will be a centralization and closure of large parts of the brewery structure. And when Siv Jensen talks about hard-working workers, there is one question that it is natural to ask, and that is why it is okay for the Progress Party, and not just fine, but why it is on the initiative of the Progress Party that 800 hard-working workers are now going to get fired, if this change in fees remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e259	It is almost pleasurable to hear Audun Bjørlo Lightbakken from the Socialist Left Party now appear as a useful idiot for large international groups. I dare remember that 60 pst. by producers of water and mineral waters in Norway were exposed to a very distorting situation as a result of this charge. The elimination of the levy now contributes to a fundamental premise that businesses have been asking for over many years, with a level playing field. They'll get that now. In that case, I think it is particularly important to try to create the impression that companies do not pay a tax to the state fund, which in itself will lead to job closures. When Lysbakken refers to Coca-Cola, I have an opinion here from the communication manager of Coca-Cola, who immediately says that he does not understand that the cancellation of the fee will lead to any cancellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e268	The President would say that the word ‘idiot’ is not part of the parliamentary language, not even ‘useful idiot’ is it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e272	The family is a ‘essential element of a free society’. And:‘The family is an important traditional and cultural bearer, with the role of care and responsibilities as central characteristics. The family is important for the growth and future of children.’ This is a quote from the programme to the Progress Party. But then what are these words going to be? Is it just a party talker? We have missed the support of the Progress Party for the financing of life courses and parental guidance, and today the Progress Party is the only party that will not participate in the expansion of the paper issue. Is it true that the Family Policy of the Advance Party is only about food packages and maximum price, not about measures that cost a few dollars, but are worth the investment in the family itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e286	I fully agree with the representative Tørresdal that the family is one of the most important things we have in this society. But that's exactly why it's also important not to deprive parents of the right to make their own decisions, the right to raise their own children. I guess there's a limit to how much of the child rearing is going to be done in public. With regard to the proposal for an extension of the papacy issue, the Progress Party believes that the permit regime we have today is quite good. What you should do, on the other hand, is better facilitate that both father and mother within the existing system have a greater degree of freedom to choose how to take out the leave. There may actually be a lot of good reasons why dad will be at home in more part of the period than mother, but it has to be up to the individual family to decide. This does not necessarily have to happen by extending the scheme, which is already quite good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e293	When the revised national budget was presented, we heard from the Progress Party that there was now a need for a power cap for hospitals, roads and businesses. It's not much to look at that roof. A month ago, the Progress Party had to apologize to the Lions for increasing the tax on commuters by DKK 1 billion in the budget decision last year. They didn't mean it anymore. We're going to have to decide on this now. Permitting rules are also extended this time by six months, as was done six months ago. This is unforeseeable for business. The basic fee is abolished by a spontaneous decision, which may cost 800 people the work. It's cruel to a lot of families. Unpredictability, short-termity and unreliability become the heading of what the Progress Party stands for. Don't you have any idea of the main business requirements, that you want predictability, that you want long-termity from Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e306	The main requirements of the economy in the context of the revised national budget have been met. Requirement 1 from business was that the rules on leavement should be continued and that a more permanent system should be found. It's fulfilled. Requirement 2 was that we wanted to abolish the law that applied to tightening up sick pay costs for the companies. It's also fulfilled. So that business has been heard in the context of the revised national budget, there must be no doubt about it. Nor is it the case now that the basic charge is removed by a spontaneous decision. This has been discussed on several occasions by the Financial Committee. The last time we were making decisions on this matter, a total industry asked for time to adapt. That's what they got. A year has passed since the last Committee discussed this. Now, I guess you can't just call it a'spontaneous decision'.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e313	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e316	I will be allowed to start by addressing the suggestions that the Workers' Party alone or with others promotes in this setting. The Norwegian economy is within a period of good growth. Very low price increases, including: As a result of increased imports from low-cost countries such as China, interest rates have contributed to an unusually low level. Low interest rates stimulate household demand for goods and services. In addition, an increase in oil investment and relatively strong growth in the international economy have given growth impetus to the mainland economy. Of course, this is good news for many. Although the development of the Norwegian economy is good, the Government is unable to reduce unemployment. The government has had to increase its estimate of unemployment from 4.1 pst. in the State budget for this year, which was treated last autumn, to 4,3 p.m. now revised. According to the Labour Force Survey of the Central Statistical Office, more than 100 000 people want to work but do not get it. The working party fears that the high unemployment rate is getting stuck. More and more people are constantly coming out of the labour market. In such a situation, it would be thought that the government would take a hold to reverse this development. But it doesn't happen. There have ever been so few areas of action compared to the number of people currently available. The government continues its weak labour market policy and its passive industrial policy. There is no outstretched hand for the unemployed. Only after pressure from the opposition did 500 intervention sites for the disabled enter the review. Now it is not particularly surprising that the Progress Party has not prioritised measures to help people out of work. On the contrary, the agreement concluded by the Progress Party poses a threat to several hundred jobs in the brewing industry by removing the basic fee on so-called PET bottles. The working party is opposed to removing this fee. It is a poor environmental policy, and it threatens many jobs in the brewing industry. The last time the government tried with this proposal, the Workers' Party had it stopped. But now the Progress Party is contributing to the removal of the levy. Siv Jensen has claimed that this makes Norway more modern. I wonder what is modern about taking jobs from brewers and sending them out into the job queue, which the committee leader obviously had problems defending and therefore had to resort to what I would call ugly characteristics of colleagues. I assume that the chairman of the committee will find an appropriate opportunity during today's debate to deplore that kind of characteristic of colleagues. The Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2005 was an offensive initiative on innovation and on measures to get out of work. There, we strengthened the budget for work and industrial development by NOK 3 to 4 billion. The Labour Party prioritises work for more people in its proposal for a revised national budget. We believe that there is a need for more job vacancies. That is why we are proposing an increase of 2,300 places in addition to the government's proposal. Of these, 500 are places for disabled persons. Once again, the Government proposed to weaken the permit regime. It is a system that has almost become a throwball in all budgetary procedures. The working party does not consider it appropriate to return to a period of leave of 26 weeks. This will lead to more redundancies and more people moving out of work. We are therefore pleased that the government parties have turned this issue around as well, and we support the proposal to establish permanent stipulations that address both cyclical and seasonal fluctuations. The Workers' Party also proposes to reverse the cut in unemployment benefits implemented by the Government and the Advance Party. The Workers' Party wants a much more active enterprise policy than the Government stands for. We believe Norway must bet more strongly where we have natural advantage. We are therefore proposing several measures to strengthen public tools. Value-added programmes for the fishing industry and culture-based industries are important initiatives. We propose more to Innovation Norway's programmes, and we want to strengthen SIVA and Argentum. Over the period, the Government and the Advance Party have given great tax relief to those who already have the most. However, in the government budget for this year, the same parties decided to significantly increase the tax burden on many ordinary workers, by deducting food allowances and tax exemptions for free-of-charge. The reactions have, not unexpectedly, been strong. The working party was against these tax snipers in the fall, and we are against them now. That is why we propose that the deductions be reintroduced. On behalf of the many commuters that were hit, we are pleased that the government parties and the Progress Party are now choosing to turn around. All those in need of hospital treatment shall be pleased that the Government's draft budget for hospitals has rarely been adopted without additions. At each budgetary round, the opposition has pressured the government parties to grant more to the hospitals. This has been absolutely necessary to avoid a cut in patient treatment and the closure of hospital wards. In the 2005 Labour Party's alternative state budget, we proposed to spend NOK 1.5 billion more on hospitals than the government had proposed in its draft government budget, and NOK 1 billion more than what resulted from the budget agreement. The working party insists that hospitals need a better economy. That is why we propose that a budget of 1 billion is allocated more than the Government's proposal in the revised budget. Developments in health enterprises following the adoption of the State budget show that several health businesses suffer from severe deficits. The government’s revised budget was therefore disappointingly poor for hospitals. After each meeting, the government parties realized that there was a majority on the Stortinget that would grant more to the hospitals, and there was an increase in the budget agreement. I started by pointing to the positive development we have in the Norwegian economy, which is clearly to the delight of many. However, in good times too, political priorities and governance must ensure that everyone has a share in these goods. The government is more than willing to talk about everything that's going well, but at the end of this great period, we can say that the bourgeois majority has steered society in a negative direction in several areas. We're getting a society where more and more people are falling outside, a society where the differences are growing and the number of poor is growing. This changes Norway in a way that we do not want. I would like to mention something which is clearly the result of the policy of the bourgeois majority, and which is part of the government's accounts: It is almost 100 000 unemployed. It's almost 30,000 more than when the period began. There are 90,000 more who are out of the ordinary labour market and shifted to social security benefits. In one of the richest countries in the world, there are 45,000 more poor. This is happening at the same time as the richest tenth of the population is getting richer and richer. It's no use decorating this with a poverty package. The picture is clear: the rich have become even richer over the last four years, and there have been several poor people. The accounts also include the situation in the municipalities, which cut school and care for the elderly, being forced through an overly tight community economy. In Norway, we have the opportunity to do something about this. We have the possibility of a different distribution and of equalization instead of increasing differences. The government has not wanted to smooth out, but instead has prioritised tax reliefs that have made the richest even richer. The poorest have been given the poverty package of Bondevik, which was really taking from the second poorest and giving to the poorest. The cuts in unemployment benefits, the cuts in disability benefits and the tightening of sick pay are examples of this. These are aspects of social development in Norway in which the Labour Party strongly disagrees, a development that must not continue. That's why we need a new majority, which will distribute better and evenly differences, not reinforce them. For the autumn, voters can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e376	What is worth noting, and which I think is quite remarkable in the position of the revised national budget, is that the three parties in the socialist option have not been able to agree on a common position on the revised national budget. Rather, on the contrary, we see that the three parties crack in absolute all directions of heaven. The centre lot will have higher alcohol and sugar levies and will spend 800 million. kr more of the pension fund. SV wants higher mat moms and cut in the boarding schools. The Workers' Party will have higher taxes on wealth. Does it not give cause for concern to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg that you can't even sew together in the opposition? There's then nothing that has to be simpler than for three sides that are in opposition, to be able to create a common front. Instead, we see that the three parties crack in all directions. My question is whether this does not give cause for concern to those who have the ambition to create a socialist majority government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e383	It's almost tempting to say that by itself you know others. If there's something I have to say I'm looking forward to with some tension, then that's the time when I'm going to see the Right Party and the Advance Party, like partners, stitch up in the budget. The fact is that the current government is going to vote on the support of the Progress Party. Earlier in the turn of the line, the representative, Mr Sanner, has just highlighted the difficult differences between the economic policies of the parties. It is quite striking then that the representative Sanner finds it appropriate to ask whether the Workers' Party is concerned that the SV and the Centre have different positions in some areas. They have, there are three different parties. But we're committed to the fact that if the voters give us a majority, we're going to sit down together and come up with a basis for government. Then there'll be a majority who don't have to borrow from the Progress Party in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e390	As is well known, the Workers' Party was its conciliatory party when it rallied the tax reform. In short, the tax reform was introduced to introduce dividend taxes on the one hand, and a reduction in property taxes and personal taxes on the other. Many people have been anxious about whether the Workers' Party would really follow up on that part of the tax reform that was about to reduce taxes. I believe that this has received a good and clear answer now, as the Workers' Party has also, in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget, entered in order to increase the wealth tax on working capital. Of course, it makes it even harder to own companies from Norway, and it becomes cheaper to own them from abroad. My question to Solberg's representative is: can the Labour Party now confirm that one does not intend to reduce taxes as the tax reform went on, and that, on the contrary, wants to tighten up wealth taxes and personal taxes, back to 2004 levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e405	I constantly experience that in tax matters the bourgeois parties do not know exactly what foot they are going to stand on when they are going to attack the Workers' Party. Sometimes the attack point is that the Workers' Party is a tax increase party. In other contexts, when the Workers' Party points out the large tax reliefs paid during the periods that have passed, the Government Parties and the Advance Party are in a position to mention that the Workers' Party has voted in favour of a good part of them. Yeah, the last one's right. A good part of the tax relief granted to business, including: by removing the investment levy, the Labour Party has voted in favour. So the image that the representative Hageset prefers to make of the Workers' Party in tax matters is a little more nuanced than that. The Workers' Party is in the process of concluding an agreement on a reversal of the business tax. First of all, we believe it is right that dividend taxes should be reintroduced. It was a big loss when the government removed the dividend tax as soon as they entered the government. We're also glad that it gives the opportunity to remove a hollowed-out division model.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e412	During this expansion period, we have increased the minimum deduction by 17 100 kroner. In addition, the percentage is increasing from 22 pst. until 31 pst. in order for the minimum deduction to really hit them with the lowest income. This has cost NOK 6.5 billion. Furthermore, the housing tax, i.e. the preferential tax on own housing, is removed. It's costing $2.5 billion. Employers’ fees for employees over 62 years of age have been reduced. It's costing 700 million. kr. Depreciation rates have increased and investment charges have been removed. So the representative, Solberg, says that we have prioritised tax credits to the richest. My question, then, is: What kind of tax relief of what I call here is the representative Solberg calling tax relief to the richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e421	This reply made me wonder if the representative Sørfonn has brought the whole of the tax reliefs given. It is absolutely right that there is an increase in the minimum deduction, and that is also agreed by the Workers' Party. We have voted in favour of that. However, the representative of Sørfonn does not know that the outcome of fiscal policies that have been implemented in the last period, among others. implies that if you have an income of 3 million. Have you received NOK 100,000 in tax relief? I think that is a glittering example of great tax relief to the rich. You have three million. kr in income has received a full minimum pension in tax relief. Then I also think it is worth drawing out that the Workers' Party has been thoroughly disagreed with the Christian People's Party, along with the other government parties and the Advance Party, then they removed the special deduction for high disease costs, and then before Christmas they removed the commuting deduction, which they had to crawl to the cross now in spring to introduce again. These are arrangements that affect ordinary people, and the Workers' Party has strongly disagreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e428	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg says only half the truth when she talks about the great tax reliefs. For the truth, with the Workers' Party's tax arrangements, the wealthiest would receive exactly the same tax relief, because the Workers' Party, by removing the divisional model, ensures that, with the highest incomes, they can convert their income into capital income and thus receive exactly the same tax relief. The tax relief that we have given has gone to the owners of dwellings, because they no longer pay house taxes, to business by securing jobs, and actually to ordinary employees. When I drew myself a new line, it's because Hill-Marta Solberg, when I confront her with the big crack among the three parties in the socialist alternative, responds by saying that the government parties and the Progress Party also disagree. Yes, we are. But we've found common solutions. In three out of four state budgets, we have agreed with the Progress Party. In the revised national budget, we reached an agreement, while the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre cannot even agree on a common alternative to the revised national budget, but rather on the contrary in all directions. That should give cause for concern to Mrs Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e437	There is a certain possibility that the representative Sanner and the party on the right may be in opposition after the election – a certain possibility. I wonder if the Right will make its budgets together with the Christian People's Party, with the Left and with the Advance Party. Why in the world would the Right do that? Why should the Right in opposition erase its policy? I assume that the day Jan Tore Sanner is back in opposition, he will use the opportunity to fine-tune his party profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e442	I record that Hill-Marta Solberg does not respond to some of the lines she gets. I will repeat the question from Gjermund Hagesetter, so that she can answer it: will the Labour Party, when dealing with the forthcoming state budget, propose to increase the taxation of Norwegian business, or increase the taxation of ordinary people, as her party leader Jens Stoltenberg has repeatedly stated in public debates? We see it in the suspension of the revision, where the Workers' Party is going in to increase the taxation of working capital, which of course will affect Norwegian business and make it more attractive to localise outside Norway. That's what I think is a question that it's important to get answers from the Workers' Party, which, after all, takes the goal of being in government, if they get a majority after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e449	The working party has never at any time hidden the following: we are not to remove the property tax. We've never hidden that. It's our policy. We believe that the property tax is a redistributive tax, which is therefore correct, and which contributes to creating a progressive profile in our tax system. We're also very much in favour of a dividend tax. Nor has the Workers' Party ever concealed it. We got a dividend tax, so the government parties, together with the Progress Party, got rid of it, to boast that they are once again reducing the distance between taxes on labour and taxes on capital. Yeah, that's great. The working party is because we have a dividend tax, and we have also expressed that on every single occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e456	President! To a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e463	There is no opportunity to take the word for obvious misunderstandings in a sequence change. It's just like that. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e468	‘Norwegian enterprises’ are the ‘most optimistic in Europe’. ‘Every fifth Norwegian employer expects to hire more people in the next three months’. On the same day, the NRK reported that the number of households with payment problems has halved since 2003. These two news flashes tell us that four years of responsible fiscal policy, which has contributed to low interest rates and a gradually lower level of taxation for businesses and families, have created optimism in business and home, home and job security. When we took over in 2001, unemployment was on the way up, and Norway is on the way into a recession. Many companies are out of business due to a lack of competitiveness, a high level of interest rates and excessive taxes. On 5 April 2001, the Business of Today wrote: ‘The warning lights flash in thousands of Norwegian companies. Stock exchanges, record bankruptcies and capital-drying scares and gives rise to pessimism.» This created uncertainty and concern. Many families were concerned about the personal economy and the workplace. Today, pessimism has turned to optimism, a decline to rise. Record low interest rates, moderate wage-fixing and lower taxes have contributed to safer jobs, a more liberal economy for individuals and a strong growth in the number of new entrants. A whole of 28,000 new businesses saw the light of day last year. It was a new record. In 2005, it appears that even more new businesses are being set up, and last year we are breaking the record. For the first time since 1998, it appears that employment in industry will increase. Today’s economy reported earlier this week that ‘traditional exports of goods are now increasing more than imports’. At the end of May, the Evening Post reported: ‘Battery Norway’. The country around tells small and large enterprises about growth and progress. In Oslo and Akershus there are a total of 16 000 job vacancies. In the evening post we were able to read last Wednesday: ‘Now students go straight to work.’ This is important, because safe jobs are the very foundation of our welfare society. Growth brings more benefits, and work is the key to well-being for some of us. After four years with our government, a very common Norwegian family where mother and father are teachers, who own a small house and have DKK 1.5 million in debt, have improved their economy by a total of NOK 70,000. They pay 2-3 pst. interest on the loan. They no longer pay taxes on the dwelling. They no longer pay top taxes. The children have had longer school days and more knowledge in school. Of course, it's unsolved tasks. Unemployment has to go down further. A number of those outside the labour market are to enter the labour market. The level of knowledge at the school shall be carried out. Freedom of choice must be increased and well-being strengthened. But the arrows point in the right direction. Then the challenge is to ensure that progress continues. We don't need any experiments. Germany and Sweden have tried the red-green experiment. Now the voters turn their backs on this. In Germany, unemployment has been at its highest level since the 1930s. In Sweden, the unemployment rate is higher this year than it was last year. In both countries, voters now seek their way away from the red-green and into the centre-right. In Norway, the parties in the socialist alternative require a new course – a new course, President? Hasn't the Workers' Party realised that unemployment is falling, that employment is increasing, that welfare and school are being strengthened, and that people are enjoying low interest rates and lower taxes? In which areas is the Workers' Party looking for a new course? Is that the interest rate that the Workers' Party wants up? Is the tax Workers' Party wanting up? Is it the knowledge promise in the school to be replaced by the food promise in the school? It is worth noting that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are cracking in all directions in the revised setting. The centre lot will have higher alcohol charges, higher sugar fees, and they will spend 800 million. kr more of the pension fund. The Socialist Left Party wants higher mat moms. They cut the defenses and support for the colleges. The Workers' Party will have higher taxes on wealth. It is quite remarkable that the three opposition parties have not used the revised national budget to show that they can agree. It must then be the easiest thing in the world to agree when sitting in opposition. Instead, the socialist parties choose to appear as a mist, with many words and vague answers. However, we can read something out of the setting. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party will increase public expenditure, with higher taxes and levies and increased use of oil money. Such policies will provide higher interest rates, a stronger crown and poorer framework conditions for businesses. Yes, this is a new course, a course that will be devastating to businesses, and create insecurity for houses, homes and jobs. There's a political dispute about the government's course. Still, there are parties who believe that we can afford a better future, which does not see the connection between value creation and well-being. Still, there are those who believe that we can only provide ourselves with our common wealth to secure tomorrow's pensions and future generations. In these areas, the Government is uncompromising. Values must be created before they can be distributed. We do not gamble with the framework conditions for business, which are the very foundation of our well-being. We take responsibility for those who come after us. The revised national budget will ensure that the positive developments in the Norwegian economy continue. The main thing is that the Government commits to spending DKK 1 billion less than what was adopted in the 2005 budget. It's important for two reasons. Firstly, it shows the government's responsibility, with emphasis on the fact that fiscal policy should not increase the pressure on interest and exchange rates, and a willingness to approach the objective of the policy of action for the use of oil revenues more quickly than foreseen. Secondly, it shows the emphasis of the Government on generation responsibility. We are now putting an extra billion aside – to the joy of tomorrow's pensioners and future generations. Of course, the right is also pleased that the Government has found room for increased investment in health and industrial policy, and not least that there is an additional commitment to the Knowledge Lift. Most people said that this year there would be so-called slumbering during the treatment of the revised national budget. I am pleased with the agreement with the Progress Party. We secured the main features of the Government's proposal. We do not use one extra kroner from the pension fund, and we were able to create room for, among other things. increased health and tax deductions for commuters. When we succeeded, this is because both the government parties and the Progress Party showed respect for each other's priorities and pain limits. We have an agreement that creates stability through 2005 and that helps to ensure the positive development of the Norwegian economy. It is an interesting paradox that, in parallel with the debate on the need for majority governments, we have put in place one budgetary conciliation after another. After the 2001 election, many predicted chaos and mess. Today, everyone knows better. The government has shown leadership and governance over a difficult time. In Stortinget we have found good solutions in collaboration with several parties. It's stability and predictability that has characterized this ageing period, and you have to go back far in time to find a period that has been characterized by less drama than this. Of course, majority and minority governments have both advantages and disadvantages. But in this election, it's the red majority option that represents the experiment. If the socialist majority becomes a majority, then all solutions must be left to a radicalised working party. During this period, we have created national agreements on pensions, taxes and foreign and security policy. That's also what previous minority governments have done. It creates stability. A red majority government will lead to a breach of predictability that has marked many important policy areas. In the debate on the tax reform on Tuesday, we got a little insight into what we can expect if the socialist alternative wins the election. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have previously made proposals for a separate investigation into housing and property taxes. In the debate, Tore Nordtun, a tax spokesman of the Workers' Party, announced that the purpose is higher property tax. Nordtun called for a proper fare system. When the Workers' Party is talking about a proper fare system, people should take care of their wallet. Nordtun further said that ‘taxes on property are something that the other – I was saying – the world has got much better grips on’. It can't be said more clearly. The Workers' Party will obviously do the same nationally as the Workers' Party does locally, namely to introduce property taxes. While the Right will provide people with security for the house, home and work, the Workers' Party will make the house and property of the new dairy house for the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e520	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e524	It was a bit of a showdown. I think Jan Tore Sanner, as fiscal spokesman for the Right, could say a little about oil prices and gas prices and how it has evolved for Norway – and also other externalities. But let go – the economy in Norway is doing well. Sanner spoke of safe jobs as the basis. I fully agree with him on that. But then the outline started, and then I have to ask: Is it a good new course that the number of disabled people in Norway has increased by almost 30,000 from 2001 to 2004? Is it a new good price that the number of re-entrys from 2001 to 2004 has increased by 29,898 – if you want to have it exactly? So you could go through point by point. There's a formidable outburst that's happening in society. This is a well-known right-wing policy: sorting. The Labour Party and the Left will have a policy that distributes in a fair and good way, that everyone feels their value in society. And the value of Sanner's posts was gone – the human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e531	The last thing I see is a big word from a pressured politician. When the representative Nordtun did not use his line to respond to any of my attacks, but instead starts talking about human dignity, I think maybe we'll calm down a little bit. But I'm going to deal with the Nordtun asked questions, namely exclusion because of disability and rehabilitation. I pointed out in my post that there is a problem. It's a challenge that we have too many people out of the labour market. It was a development that started when the Stoltenberg government ruled Norway. Then, too, the number of disabled people and the people on reindeer also increased. I did not register that the Workers' Party took any action to get that situation under control. On the other hand, we have done so, both by changing the system of disability benefit to speed up the return to work, and by trying to use disability benefit as a wage subsidy for a period of time to return to the labour market. I think that policy works, and our ambition is to put down the barriers for those who are out of the labour market, and to get more people back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e538	The right has traditionally, at least in the opposition, been very concerned with reducing some charges. In this setting, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Centre have agreed to propose a review of both environmental, energy and health excise duties. We have also asked for a proposal for a new one-off car charging system, where environmental and safety characteristics should form a central part of the basis for charging. None of these proposals have found reason to join. My question to Jan Tore Sanner is: in the Right Program you can read that the Right is very concerned about these questions and intends to try to do something with them in the next big period, as it says. Why wouldn't the Right then agree to make the premise for it, so that we could have this review of the state budget for 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e548	Let me just start by reminding the representative, Siv Jensen, that the government parties, in cooperation with the Progress Party, have removed the investment fee, reduced the electricity charge, removed the seat charge and lowered the alcohol charge. In other words, we have started work on reducing the level of taxes in Norway as well as reducing the level of taxation in Norway. We do not need a new public investigation to further reduce the level of charges. I just can't see why there is a need for new investigations to look at this. If you want to prioritise lower charges, yes, it's just to do it. And as I said, we've reduced a number of taxes, but we're taking it in the right order, and in this period we've thought it was right to give priority to lower taxes on business, to remove house taxes, and to reduce income taxes. But I fully agree that we must also reduce the car charges during the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e555	Yes, we in SV will increase public spending, because there are many who still don't have security for homes, homes and jobs. In health, care and care, there is still a growth in unemployment. The growth is strongest among those with a background from care workers and caregivers working groups. There is no shortage of tasks in society to get these people to work. Here's a lot of vacant jobs, here's a lot of vacant capacity, it's about how a priority is. The government's priority is to increase private growth two and a half times as much as the public sector. Then it becomes unemployed in the public sector. So we're going to spend two and a half times as much on private welfare, the money we're going to spend on travel, cars, more expensive food and alcohol according to today's VG. Is it the ambition of this government for the next period that it is very good to spend money on – I kept saying – aunt and aunt, while those who are going to take care of our sick and old are going to go unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e562	I don't know how the representative of Grande Røys uses his money – it's possible they go to aunt and aunt. For my part, I use my personal finances to create security for me and my family. It is also an important part of well-being. When we lower taxes, we give people a more liberal private economy. It creates security, and it creates well-being. We're now dealing with maybe one of the most important distinctions in Norwegian politics, because while the Right is very concerned that there's a connection between creating the values before we can use them, that there's a connection between value creation and welfare, the Socialist Left only talks about sharing. But the truth is, if you increase taxes on business, you're taxing jobs out of the country, there's fewer jobs, there's less value-making, there's less well-being and less profit. It's this context that makes the Socialist Left Party a danger to the welfare and security of society over time, while we're concerned that we have to create the values before we share them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e571	I have a question for the Right about road investments. The Central Party proposes in the revised budget that a separate loan scheme be established with interest compensation for county road installations. A power cap is needed. About 20 pst. of the county roads are missing fixed decks and almost half do not withstand 10 tonnes of axle load. A new report from Vegvesenet says it costs 11 billion kroner to resume the maintenance run. It's county responsibility, but they don't have money. It was also noted when it was the responsibility of the municipalities for the school buildings and for the churches, and then a loan arrangement, exactly like the one we are now proposing, was created for the school, and for the Church gradually. 15 billion will be spent through that scheme in eight years, there's a lot of demand, and the Government will increase the allocation of that loan facility in the revised budget. My question is, given that the business community and many right-wing rapporteurs are very concerned that there is much more to be done with regard to the county roads, when will the Right go in for such a scheme as the Center Party is now proposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e580	That's never going to happen, because it's a bad suggestion. There will be no more money just by establishing new loan arrangements. It's a matter of willingness to prioritize, and we see that the Right in Government is more important than what the Center Party did when they were in government. It must be noted that the representative Morten Lund – there is more money going on today than when the Central Party was in government. It is simply a matter of priority, and it is a matter of coherence in policy. It helps very little that the central party in the opposition will have more money at its disposal, when the lot simultaneously enters in order to increase the level of taxation and taxation for the business community. It helps very little that the Center Party goes in for more money, when the Center Party wants to spend 800 million. From the pension fund and we know that economists say that the consequences of the policies that the socialist parties will pursue will give us a stronger crown and a higher interest rate. That's definitely not what business is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e585	I think it's a good thing when Jan Tore Sanner says that they've added side 1 billion kroner, when one over three years has spent 90 billion dollars. I guess it's called one that's spent $1 billion less. What would the working party like to do differently, ask Jan Tore Sanner. We want to create the values, and it is good that all things go up financially, but then there must be security for those who are unemployed. Then we have to use the money to distribute, to give more work, and then we don't have to reduce the payments to those who are unemployed, to make them unsafe. We want a better distribution. We want more people out of work. We want fewer poor people. It's also a security. It is important that those who have the least also have security in society. That's what the Workers' Party will do different from the government that's now. And then we don't want tax incentives for the commuters, for ordinary people. That's what the Right line adds up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e592	The strange thing is that the Labour Party wants a new course when you see that our policy is working. Let's go back a little bit in time. It was Gro Harlem Brundtland who crashed Norway from 1986 to 1993. In 1993, there were 180 000 unemployed in Norway, and Gro Harlem Brundtland was still responsible for Kåre Willoch. Then she had run Norway for seven years. This time we have a so-called soft landing in recession. Never has the decline been shorter, never have we managed to get the growth up faster. We see that only in Oslo and Akershus there are 16 000 job vacancies. We see that for the first time since 1998, the number of industrial workers has increased in Norway. And then the Workers' Party is talking about a new course. Then we have to ask, what is this new course? I record that, like us, the Workers' Party will have more disadvantaged people into the labour market. Yes, we agree, but that is not a new course. In this case, it must be on the instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e599	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e603	After hearing the panegyrian tribute of the government's policy, it's essentially strange that no more than 15 20 pst. that this government is so brilliant. In fact, in my time I have not heard the husband's misleading marketing from Stortinget's pulpit. I think there's a law called consumer protection. They're asking whether this one might not have come into use. But it is true that the Norwegian economy is going well – fortunately for that. Norwegian companies make money, and that's good. Most of us have better advice, and it's also nice. The interest rate and inflation are low. What most economists think, including economists with party books in the Right, is that very little of the good economic times can be attributed to government policy. On the contrary, there is a Norwegian economy cover in spring/summer 2003, which means that since then both Norway and other countries have steadily increased, and more rapidly up in Norway in a positive direction, for one reason in particular, that we have high commodity prices on the goods we sell internationally. In particular, oil and gas, but also metals, woodworking, fish and other products have a good international price. In addition, we have the strange situation that our business composition is so that we import a large part of our finished products. They are imported largely from countries like China, and then at very low prices. We've had a historical combination that makes it possible to have high private consumption while at the same time having low inflation and low interest rates. We enjoy this. This is why the paradox appears to be much stronger in the Norwegian economy than in the economy of many other countries. And the paradox is that despite the Norwegian economy going very well, despite the fact that we're doing better, most of us, we still have unemployment of almost 100,000 people. We have 33,000 young people under the age of 25 without work. Long-term unemployment in Norway has doubled under the current government. We have municipalities that are struggling. Last day we received a report on how maintenance in Norwegian municipalities is, and it is not just the Right who will take responsibility for this. It turns out that 58 pst. schools have a structural condition that is not satisfactory. Of course, it's not because municipal politicians don't want to clean up the schools, but it's because there's no money to clean up the schools. We notice it in the classrooms, we notice it in the public transport, we notice it in the staff at the hospital, and we notice that we have a lot of poor people. And there is nothing more paradoxical than that we have poverty in such a rich country, and that there are people and young people who can't afford to participate in the other. Then the contrast becomes very difficult and very difficult to carry. This is also one of the important paradoxes we see. I have registered that the government boasts very and unhindered about everything that goes well in the Norwegian economy. There is little of this that can be attributed to the Government. However, let me just take the following paradox: The government says that they have used the rule of action, and that the rule of action is so important for how the Norwegian economy is managed. Yeah, I guess so. The rule of action makes sense as a guide, but the government has spent almost 100 billion more over the course of its four years than the rule of action suggests. It has even gone so far that in the hearing of the Financial Committee on monetary policy, the Governor of the Central Bank said that he believes that the rule of action underpins Norwegian fiscal policy. He does not say that it is followed. Because it's not being followed. We use 6.4 pst. of the real return, and not 4 pst., to which the rule of action refers. I think that's a reasonable use. But that means that the rule of action is not an anchor in the Norwegian economy. It's a drift anchor. The government has put this up as a driving force anchor and is very much enjoying the international economy that makes the Norwegian economy go well. If you want to take credit for what's going well now, you also have to take responsibility for what's not going well. This means that the Government must also take responsibility for the 30 000 unemployed in the spring of 2003 through a failed economic policy and a failed monetary policy. That means that the government has to take responsibility for the fact that the classrooms are unfortunately not in a state that we want the schools not in a state that we want us to have poverty. We have a government that also has to take responsibility for all of this, which is the paradoxes and contrasts that very many of us see when we're around Norway. For SV, there are in particular four things that have been important in the alternative budget. One is a strengthened local economy. If one goes into the tables in the revised budget, one will see very clearly why the local economy in Norway is an important parameter on why unfortunately things are not as they should. For next year, the forecast is to be 1 pst. growth in the local economy, while there must be 3-4 pst. growth in the private economy. If a goes behind the numbers and see, what does this mean? 1 pst. growth in the local economy is less than inflation. This will mean that it will not yet be possible to hire more people at the hospital in the next year. It won't be possible to hire more people at school. It will not be possible to get better staffing in kindergartens. It will not be possible to maintain the building mass of schools better – simply because such a low growth will mean that all the money that municipalities actually have will go to the ongoing and completely necessary operational tasks that municipalities already have. This will mean that next year's local government meetings and budget meetings will go to exactly – and perhaps even more so – what we have seen recently, namely where to try to find money. And then we have a government that stands here on the pulpit of Stortinget and has no – no – understanding of the difficult situation of very many Norwegian municipal politicians and not least the population. On the contrary, we heard a showdown that does not belong in this world. But this perspective is completely absent, totally absent, in the government's policy and in the government's guise list. This is one of the most important things we have to put in place, and this is one of the most important reasons why this government should be replaced. The other thing that has been important for SV is that we want to introduce the maximum price from August 1. The Storting made a historic decision by making a big effort on kindergartens, which SV is proud to have taken the initiative. We also thought it was right to bring the government on this, so that we could have peace of mind about kindergarten policy and expansion over the course of these years. Unfortunately, this has not happened, but we have had a formidable growth in the number of kindergartens – thank you and the price for it – and we have got the price down. But the last step has not yet been taken, and we think it's right to take this from August 1st, because we promised our voters. In kindergarten policy, perhaps more than in any other area, there are many parties in this room who have engaged for many, many years. It suggests that it would have been necessary and important to build trust in this field by actually completing the kindergarten policy, which we have promised during this ageing period. We promise to complete this at the beginning of the next period if the voters give us the opportunity. Infant parents in Norway can truly fear what happens if this government continues. Then the price will explode again, and the kindergarten expansion will stop. The right has promised the voters. They don't want to prioritize kindergartens. The third thing that has been important for us is to bet on hospitals. The hospitals have received more money in this comparison with the Progress Party. It was expected, but it will nevertheless be so that the hospitals to next year will have a great aftermath. They have great debts, and that will mean that there will still be long queues for patient treatment, let me say in particular that I am very, very disappointed with the Progress Party, which has repeatedly promised that they would not cut 10 pst. at the hospital in Trondheim, for which they have gone in, and they have promised to build the psychiatry centre in connection with the large extension at St. Olav's Hospital. But once again, the Progress Party falls in the middle of Norway. For the fourth time, they promised this, and for the fourth time, they're failing their promise. That's what the Progress Party will notice. I am pleased to have exposed the balance requirements of the hospitals, which means that you get a little longer time for conversion. That's good for patient treatment. But first of all, the hospitals will need fresh money. We'll see to it that they get that. The fourth point I've already been up to, and it's about unemployment. It's a very unhealthy move of a society that goes as well as ours, that so many people don't have a job to do. In particular, it is alarming that as many as 33 000 young people under the age of 25 do not have work. It's a tremendously high number, and that means that we now have to get back in place a guarantee that young people will have the opportunity to get a job or an education. We have in this revised national budget, among other things. put forward proposals on four aspects of this, and we're really asking the Stortinge to think about whether it's not wise that we do this together to make a promise to get young people to do something sensible. One is to grant grants to young people, jobseekers’ grants, because very many young people are not even qualified to receive unemployment benefits, and therefore they do not come to the employment office. That's why they fall out of everything. If we could have given them a grant to motivate them to apply for a job, we think it would have made sense. The second is that we think it would make sense that the employment offices had their own corner or disk where young people were treated in particular, and were not standing in the long queue of all the other people who are unfortunately there, so they simply got the opportunity of an organized setup to find something sensible to do. The third is that we want a grant to companies, private or public, who want to receive young people who need it to adapt to work, so that they can thus acquire qualifications that enable them to use their abilities for the benefit of themselves and society. We think that would make sense. And not least, we think, fourthly, that it would make sense to create own innovation schemes for young people who are good and who have ideas to create their own jobs and in that way make use of their abilities in a different way. 33,000 people without work under the age of 25 are dramatic numbers. What is also dramatic is that long-term unemployment has increased by over 15 000 under the current government. Just think about it. So over the course of these four years while the Norwegian economy is going to cost, there are so many people who are long-term unemployed, and the number has increased. This is a great fallit for the sitting government. I would like to take up the suggestions from us that are distributed in the hall, and those that are in the setting. Like the chairman of the Committee, I would like to thank the Committee and the Minister of Finance for their cooperation over these four years. I look forward to the fall when the Minister of Finance is back on the big bench, where he belongs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e638	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e643	In the context of the revised national budget, the Socialist Left proposes to give full equality to cohabiters with spouses in the context of inheritance law. This proposal has its background in a specific case where the inheritance fee seemed quite unreasonable. However, there are many such manifestly unreasonable cases. To just mention one: a lonely illegitimate woman who lived with her old mother for many years and cared for her, inherited the OBOS apartment that they had lived together in these years. Since it had risen so heavily in price, she had to sell the childhood home to cover the inheritance fee. Those with large assets have the opportunity to dispose of the fee. Can SV imagine a solid deduction from the inheritance tax, so that heirs, to put it simply, do not sell the childhood home to pay this fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e648	There has increasingly been a legal non-discrimination between cohabitants and marriages, which has been correct, but one element remains: cohabitants in documented life over two years, but without a common child, do not have mutual inheritance rights. This question we have raised a number of times, and we are absolutely sure that the Storting sooner or later is going to clean up this, because there have been several individual ships that show that it is necessary. There are very few people, but they are hit hard. As for the inheritance fee in particular, we have, like many here in Stortinget, awaited a proposal from the department, which has been called for a long time, in the light of Fleischer's investigation. I am positive that the amount of the inheritance fee will be increased. We have suggested this a number of times in Stortinget, but the entire review of the inheritance tax question is still waiting for the Stortinget. It has been with the Government for many years, including the previous government in fact, and nothing has happened about this. But we are positive about increasing the base deduction of the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e655	The Socialist Left is strongly opposed to the social profile of the 2005 tax package, and in particular to the increase in VAT. Therefore, it is very interesting that SV increases the food tax itself, only half a year later. In addition, SV will increase the petrol charge, they will increase the electricity charge, and they will introduce road pricing for ordinary people. But the most unreasonable thing I think is the proposal for capital taxation, where ordinary pensioners with bank deposits have to pay 48 pst. taxes on interest income without any form of protection. In addition, the property tax. So in sum, SV wants pensioners to pay more than 100 pst. taxes on interest income on their deposits. Is there no limit to SV's willingness to clear the bank accounts of pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e660	I know the representative Hansen as a wise and reflective politician, so I think that the post he now made, he didn't even believe in himself. It wasn't related at all. Let me just say the following about the food tax: when the Stortinget a few years ago reduced the food tax, it was especially the Reitan family, the Hagen family and other Norwegian food barons that served on this. We as consumers had very little effect from this. And there were some consumers who noticed when the food tax was reduced by 1 pst.? The state lost large incomes, but those who enjoyed this were the same food barons once again. Now, when we propose to go back to half VAT, and not a little less than half VAT, which you now have, it didn't mean anything to consumers, yes, it didn't look like the price tag at all, but it would have been an important way to get revenue to the treasury. We're standing by. The point is that when the whole reduction in the food tax is to be summed up, there will be a few Norwegian families in particular who could say that this was a good decision for my wealth. That really shouldn't have been decided by the Storting. But we warned already then, and were, like the Right, actually against the reduction of the food tax at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e671	In their comments, SV has a long investigation into how dubious the Government's use of oil money is. Then they sum up saying that because one of the Biggest doesn't have the expertise to fine-tune economic policy, one chooses to use as much as the Government. And in the hall today, Øystein Djupedal has said that it made sense to use as much as the government. So you could get a little bit in doubt about what they really mean. I wonder if that means that if SV were to come into the situation that they came into government, and perhaps even got the finance minister, would they listen to their government and trade union economists as the central bank manager? Is there anything more clear about the use of oil money from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e678	And the interesting thing is that we're the ones who've gotten the right idea about how to use oil money. We already said in the setting, when the rule of action was adopted, that it was the temperature of the Norwegian economy that was going to decide this. The government no longer uses the rule of action as a guide, but they use it as a anchor. They've spent almost 100 billion more in four years. This means that if you try to pretend that the rule of action has been a dogmatic guide, the government has not followed it. And that made sense. We have agreed to that because of the situation in the Norwegian economy. That doesn't mean we're going to spend a lot of money in addition to the rule of action. That's never been proposed by SV. We've been using the same balance as the Government for many years, and sometimes tightening too. But the point is this, and that's where the government is kind of taken down with their pants: they've pretended that there's an economic legality in the rule of action, but there's no economic legality in the rule of action. It is a political rule that one can choose to follow or choose not to follow. It's that simple. The government has done that, and we have said that has been the right approach. After all, this room should be concerned with the policy and impact of policy decisions. Then there is a balance sheet in this, and the rule of action was not the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e685	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e688	Today, we put the last hand on the work when it relates to economic policy during this ageing period. Then it's nice that we can take a little trip inland with a shot that's fully capable of sailing on. During this period, we have turned the Norwegian economy from pessimism to optimism, from increasing unemployment to falling unemployment, from increasing bankruptcy rates to new growth in business creation. The private economy is in good condition, enterprises are starting to invest again, and in the local economy the first signs are coming. This confirms, among other things: Aetat, Statistis central bureau, NHO and Norway Bank. Now we're going to watch out for a picture of how well everything is. But we're so absolute in the right way, even though there's even more to do. When I read the budget settings and hear some posts and publish them, I remember a word from Ivar Aasen: "The sky is blue, if not the blind see it." That's good signs now! The sky is blue, and the sun shines yellow and warm. These possibilities shall be retained and used to further develop a welfare society characterised by warmth, security and proximity. I am pleased that the Progress Party on this crossroads chose to cooperate with the Government Party, and with it followed up the budget agreement from in the fall. The agreement on the revised national budget provides NOK 700 million for patient treatment in hospitals, 500 new jobs for the disabled, more for the smoothing of the network tariff and more for racial protection and roads – just to name a few. The government's arrangement will ensure another week of paper magazine for those who have a child after July 1st this year. But one of the most important things about this agreement is that we carry on a responsible, financial arrangement. A responsible financial policy is the Stortinget’s best weapon in the fight to keep the krone price at a competitive level. It also shows that the rule of action is not dead. Earlier in the period, the criticism that the action rule was applied in a too rigid a way was approached as an autopilot. In recent times the criticism has been reflected; the rule of action has been interpreted far too far. This revised budget shows that we have used the rule of action after the intentions for the entire period. It also confirmed the Governor’s office during the hearing on 23 May this year. There he said, among other things.\t\t You can ‘Our picture is that the rule of action has led fiscal policy. The use of oil revenues varies according to the development of activity in the budgetary policy guidelines.» Clearer than this can't be said! A sound economic policy is not an end in itself. A healthy economic policy is the basis for work, school and education, for good health services, for home and home, and for a safe and worthwhile old age. If the economy fails, the foundation for all the important welfare goods that we want to take care of and further develop is also gone. For four years our government has shown that it can steer the Norwegian economy in a good way. That's what we're going to do. Our country doesn't need a new course. Otherwise, when we look back at this four-year period, the Christian People's Party has good reason to be satisfied with the results that have been achieved in other areas as well. This applies to areas such as: family policies, voluntary teams and organisations, aid and development policies, care and health services, etc. And throughout it, the Christian People's Party has a clear basis of values. As I said earlier in my article: A lot has been done, but there is still more to be done. But the course, the direction, goes in a straight path. There is no need for a new course here, which will lead us in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e721	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e725	The representative Sørfonn said that in the list of good results that he wants to show to the voters, we now see the first signs of improvement in the local economy. The fact that 2004 became a useful year is due to the fact that, through the agreement with the Workers' Party, NOK 2 billion more was paid to the municipalities than the Government proposed. And last year, when you made a budget deal with the Progress Party for this year, the local authorities got a little bit more of a jam. That is why 2004 was an exceptional year for municipalities in this period. With the arrangement we've been given for next year, the municipalities are back and have only one option when they're going to make a budget, and that's where to find their cut. I think the representative of Sørfonn should be a little bit more careful about putting that point on the showroom list, because through the election campaign he is going to meet party traps and other municipal politicians, and they know why 2004 was a little more positive year than all the other years with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e734	The representative Svein Roald Hansen is quite right in saying that local economy is very important. It's in the municipalities we meet everyday, it's where life is lived, and that's where the services meet the people. But Svein Roald Hansen was injured to draw a too dark picture, because the reality is that the KS and the state are some that a operating result of 3 pst. is good for the municipalities. Then one has enough to invest, and one can have a defensive offer and plan ahead. Last year's result shows an operating result of between 2.2 and 2.4 pst, depending on how you calculate it, and from KS, even from municipalities and other bodies, this is not a single case. We're really sorry. We have a lot more to do, but the course is right, and the dialogue with KS and the municipalities is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e743	A lot of people in the private sector are concerned about the huge form field we have today. The government has also stated that they are concerned and concerned about, but very little has happened. Since 1997, coordination and simplification measures have been implemented which have reduced business duties by a total of 346 annual works. It's with respect to report not much to boast about. My question to the representative Sørfonn is: Is the government party and the Christian People's Party satisfied with the conclusion in this area? And what will be done to reduce the huge form field that is today a clumsy hand and a delineating factor for Norwegian value creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e750	For small and medium-sized enterprises – perhaps especially for small ones – it is very important that they have a simple everyday life, because the leader is also active in the day-to-day operation and has a little time for paperwork. It has therefore been important for this government to reduce the form field, reduce red tape, etc. There was a look-up – it was well yesterday or the day before – in the media that tried to make it so that it has not been closed. They had measured the number of words, or what it was, in different regulations, etc. There's a whole bunch of ways to do it. What is the reality, and what we get feedback on, is, among other things. that this ALTINN project, where one can report to different bodies through one EDB system, is very well received. Recently, the Storting decided to postpone the submission deadline for accounting reporting to those who used Altin. So here we are on the right path. This is what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e762	Earlier this week there was a so-called prime minister in the drama between Kjell Magne Bondevik and Jens Stoltenberg. The Prime Minister was then very concerned about the cost of any new government and about the price tag in particular on SV’s programme. The Christian People's Party has now itself adopted a programme for the election that promises a lot: more money for cash support, more for maternity leave, cheaper bus – a long sandwich list with expensive suggestions. At the same time, the Christian People's Party shall sit in government with the Right, which has suggested that the tax administrations in the next period should at least be as large as they have been in it. That means there's going to be a lot of money to realize the program of the Christian People's Party going to elections for the autumn. But the representative Ingebrigig S. Sørfonn is known as a man with order in the accounts, and since the Christian People's Party is still asking for the price tag on other people's programs, I expect that Sørfonn has the overview of the price tag on his own. It would be interesting if he wanted to share it with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e771	Yes, the Christian People's Party has a very good program. It shows our policies and what we want to stand for. During this period, we have implemented a lot of our policies. We've done that in good cooperation with the Right and the Left. In the context of family policy, I can cite examples such as cash support, paper issue, etc. In the voluntary sector, the framework has been extended monthly in the form of grants, in the form of VAT compensation, etc. Such measures may be taken. And when we're probably going to continue this government cooperation in the fall, I'm overconfident that we're going to be able to build elements from the different parties in a good way, so that we're going to revisit a lot of the Christian People's Party's policies in the government's work, too, in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e776	The representative of Sørfonn began by saying that the treatment of the revised budget was the last hand in the work. I want to draw attention to health businesses, one side of emergency medical preparedness. In 2001, the government received a mandate from Stortinget to draw up an ambulance service plan to incorporate the economy and response time requirements. In the spring came the response from the Government, where the demand for response time was omitted for economic reasons. The centre party believes this to be unacceptable. This is about people's security, regardless of where they live. I guess the representative Sørfonn is familiar with the turmoil that the ambulance offer has created, also in his own county. We have heard the representative Sørfonn talk about priorities. Does he mean that people's security and safety of life and health should be given priority away?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e783	Hospitals and health care are very important for safety and proximity. This is precisely why our government has raised 100 million in revised terms. to secure local hospitals, so that everyone has a reasonable level of proximity to the provision provided by their local hospital. I see that the Center Party has something more money to spend than what we have. They are used, among other things: between 800 million. kr more from the pension fund. We didn't think it was a good way to solve this problem, because then loses one end and uses the other. It doesn't give collective sets an increase in security, rather the opposite way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e790	In every budget management, Ingebrigig Sørfonn is most pleased with the growth that has been achieved in the Stortinget, and not what the Government has presented – as well as this time. When the crown of the work is to be placed, as Ingebrigt Sørfonn says, the Christian People's Party has been cut into unemployment benefits, cut into unemployment benefits, cut off high disease costs, cut into the child's supplement for disability, higher infirmities – and it becomes harder to get sick. As a monument all over the place, they like to cut into the tomb. The Christian People's Party that I knew before was most occupied by the weakest. What in all the world has happened to the Christian People's Party these eight years – especially the last four – that is now doing all of this that frames the weakest, those who need the most help from the big society?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e797	The representative of Frøiland probably only heard parts of what I said. In fact, I put quite a lot of emphasis on the fact that I was happy with what our government has done. And it must be allowed, even in the Storting, to be happy for things. The Christian People's Party is very busy with subsampling. So I tried to find out in a previous line that when the minimum deduction is increased by NOK 17 100, it's a good thing in itself. When we also increase the percentage from 22 pst. until 31 pst. of the salaries, we catch them with the lowest income. A balancing profile has a basis for our work in economic policy and fiscal policy. In the economic system, we also have a secure economy for businesses and households, because we now have a record low interest rate, and we have a competitive crown price that provides security for jobs, activities and therefore for well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e805	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e808	The Centre conducts an economic policy to build the country and take advantage of the great opportunities offered by active and targeted assistance to job creators, by improving public welfare, by improving cohesion and by providing incentives to those working in the voluntary sector. We believe that Norway could have had lower leave and higher value creation for several years, unless the use of oil money had been used for this very purpose. Instead, the Government has obtained a majority of tax relief for those who need it the least, and have increased unemployment, disability and lower tax intake as a result. 100000 have been out of work for the last four years. The number of persons aged between 17 and 67 who live on social security has increased by 200,000 in 10 years. A shift is needed to stop such a huge waste. The SSB has estimated that 47 000 more would be working on government tax reliefs instead of being granted over the state budget to more health, school and care jobs, to road construction and job creators in the business world – without increasing prices, increasing interest rates or increasing crown prices as a result, according to the SSB. Such increased employment is estimated to give society an annual profit of more than DKK 20 billion. The centre party has followed such an active and responsible line. Our additional consumption of oil money of DKK 4 to 5 billion in each budget must be set against the Government's annual back-up of 10 billion due to the failure of tax receipts and 'unexpected' social security payments — and a passive industrial policy. Of course, it is now better – compared with the 2002 and 2003 years of loss. We have suffered enormous losses as a result of a faulty interest rate policy and the government's savings policy, including: Two billion dollars less to the SND system. One of the losses was 30,000 jobs in business. In the Government's proposal to revise the budget of the year, there are only mini-measures against unemployment. Despite NOK 2 billion in unexpected dividends, 5 billion in reduced social security costs, and the fact that the external item proves to be able to contribute 3 billion to containment, one adds up to a deterioration, among other things. by shortening the period of leave. The government writes that the level of unemployment is expected to stay. The worst form of waste, wrote Norman in his day. It's worth repeating. To healthcare companies, the Government proposes some $300 million. kr connected to session activity requirements. It is also remarkable when the Government writes that the interest rate in the next few years will increase and become much higher than in neighbouring countries. It's no wonder there's going to be a harmfully high dollar price after such an invitation to the speculators. And what if the SSB gets right, that the increase is just going to be 25 pst. by the Government's tips? The agreement with the Progress Party gave disappointing little to hospitals, roads and businesses. This was puzzled – but revealing. That tax incentives of $1 billion for certain groups of commuters are now being cancelled after six months is good. That the period of leave is temporarily extended for six months and that the base charge on plastic bottles is abolished by a spontaneous decision that may cost 800 jobs also shows that the alliance between the Right and the Advance Party means unforeseeable. It's married to business, and it's ruined for society. The price of the new tax cards, including this year, is a trifle of a few hundred million, it is a trifle compared to the big bill – with predictability. The Central Party's alternative involves a bet in addition to the Government's proposal of DKK 1.4 billion for nutritional purposes, including SEK 350 million. to roads and broadband. In addition, a new loan scheme comes to county roads, allowing county councils to start a long-term wanted major offensive. The scheme is completely parallel to the loan scheme for the maintenance of school and church buildings. It is strange if only the Coastal Party will support our proposal today. The budget cost is only 11 million. NOK 1 billion in the second half of the year. We are strengthening SIVA and Argentum – more than the Government. We're adding SEK 1.1 billion to health businesses, ambulance preparedness and rehabilitation – of a total of DKK 1.7 billion to welfare. We're going to give 122 million. kr extra to the municipalities that are losing out on the VAT compensation scheme. We grant 110 million for volunteering and culture. extra kr, among others so that all applicants for new volunteer centres can receive a yes. Today’s allocation is yes to 1/4 of the applicants – of the many fires. In sum, the Center Party proposes to spend 800 million. kr more oil crowns than the Government's proposals. That's $300 million. kr less than the optimal balance point defined six months back. The gain is 2,700 more annual work plus 600 new job vacancies. Finally, the Government promised to close the customs hole in the case of foreign sausage with Norwegian salt. The result is only half-density and further job losses both in agriculture and in industry. There really needs to be a new regime that focuses on local production and jobs. Then I would like to promote the proposal of the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e840	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e845	The Workers' Party's fiscal spokesman, Tore Nordtun, told us at the end of the debate on the tax settlement on Tuesday that the Workers' Party wants to introduce a new national tax system on property. In plain text it means the introduction of a new State property tax in Norway. Now also has the Center Party, among others. together with the Workers' Party and SV in the context of the tax reform last year, asked for a new tariff system and considered that taxes on wealth, housing taxes and property taxes must be seen in the context. In the meantime, the government has removed the house tax and helped to secure houses and homes. The introduction of a new State property tax would be a dramatic intervention for many owner-occupiers. Professor Lars-Erik Borge at NTNU said in Economic Forum No. 9 in 2004 that such a tax can actually amount to 40 billion dollars in annual proceeds. Could the representative Lund clarify the views of the Centre party in relation to such State property tax as is possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e854	The centre party has been involved in asking for a proper investigation of a new property tariff system. It actually decided The Storting in 1994 – I think it was – and it has not been followed up. Today's system is as unfair as it would be, and that is an agreement. After all, the largest and most valuable properties drop almost taxes. It is the usual homes that are being hit today. That's what it's most reacting to. The center part doesn't support a government property tax, we never did. We want it to be a local tax. We found that what was presented in connection with the tax reform of the Government was positive, that the municipalities should now have greater freedom to decide which tax items are to be taxed and which rates are to be used. We think that's what we deserve to be discussed further. I understand that the government agreed at that time. I hope that the Right can also agree with that when in a few months they are no longer in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e861	The centre party refuses to remove the basic fee on PET bottles. This is a case that has been going on in various positions and has had a majority, in fact for a year, without anything happening. Now it happens. In this context, there are two things that seem strange to me. First of all, the reason that the change requires ESA approval. When has it been crucial for the Center Party? Moreover, the ESA has announced that it is most likely that they will bring an action against Norway to eliminate the distorting charge. Competition supervision says that the fee protects the large enterprises and makes it difficult for small ones to enter the market. The small are largely in the districts, and have struggled for years to survive in different competitions. These are located in places like Inderøy, Sogndal, Fyresdal, Wågå and Steinkjer. These companies say they are totally dependent on equal competitive conditions to survive. Doesn't this mean anything to the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e868	I must say I felt sorry for the Progress Party a month ago, when they were standing on the Lion's Hill and apologized for a $1 billion tax squeeze for the commuters. I think the Progress Party should have learned. This time, they're also not listening to people, they're not talking to people in advance. And then they'll get signals gradually. This tax change is going to have a far more dramatic effect than what we see today. It is necessary to ensure that this tax relief also leads to other tax reliefs. It's going to cost more jobs, I think, than what we now see for ourselves. It is a pity that the Progress Party then acts in such a way that they do not want to follow the usual democratic rules and, for example, the rules of the game. ask the Government, as agreed by the Storting, to make proposals and to show us the consequences of such a decision. So I think there are alternative ways to take care of the environment and at the same time take care of the jobs, which can be fair, and which do not create competitive inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e877	I'm going to start by thanking the Center Party for the support to expand the paper issue from 1 July. It has been an important matter for the Christian People's Party and for me for many years, and I am happy that we are now starting the expansion. On the other hand, I am not so sure that I can thank the Centre Party for their financial policy – over time and in today's situation. Mr. Lund's installation was a long-term defense to spend more oil money throughout the entire period. The centre party has smeared its budget, which today could have contributed to raising interest rates, which could once again strengthen its price. This would, of course, weaken the Norwegian export industry and the competitive industry, as we find in District Norway. My question to Mr Lund's representative is: why is financial policy jeopardising jobs in the districts? And does the representative Lund think that their partners, possibly, have the same understanding of the use of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e886	A passive industrial policy, a completely paralysed industrial policy – that is what really costs jobs. That's what costs billions of oil. Think about what we've gotten from increased social security costs during this period, because so many fewer are at work, because so many more need social security to live. That it's going to be the Christian People's Party line that they're going to take from Innovation Norway and SND the tools to say yes to those who have good ideas, and to those who need help to continue what they're doing is absolutely incredible. Then we get a lot of support from the Christian People's Party locally, from rapporteurs and others who say that the needs are there. Then we have to cover them. We need to use the oil money in a smart and targeted way to maintain employment, to maintain housing around, to build infrastructure, on which our proposal to support the loan scheme for the county roads goes on. You the world so much support we have locally! So strange is that we don't have the same support from the Christian People's Party in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e893	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e896	I would like to start by thanking the Progress Party for having had constructive negotiations and having come to a good negotiating result. The co-operation administration's policy is good. The unemployment rate is going down. We still have low price growth and low interest rates. There is no lack of good purposes that one could want more money for from the state. Disciplined and balanced fiscal policies are the most important contribution we can make to being far-sighted, secure jobs, low crown prices, low interest rates still and strengthening competitiveness internationally. There is also no lack of comments and suggestions in the setting from the opposition about what they want to spend more money on. If one sums up all the proposals from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre on matters we have dealt with this spring, this government option will face great, yes, I would say unsurpassed, challenges, when they are going to put together a government budget that guarantees a competitive business and low interest rates. I assume that they have the intention to carry out the promises they have given – that it is not just a matter of choice. Public welfare schemes have grown up at NOK 43 billion during this flooding period. The left wants us to give more priority to those who have the least. It means targeting the funds against those who actually have the least, not introducing new welfare schemes that are lubricating evenly to everyone. Nearly $3.5 billion has been used by the Cooperation Agency to target those who need it the most, whether it is for homeless, self-employed or addicted. We live in one of the richest countries in the world, where most people have it very well. Most of us manage to employ themselves and their own income. But for those who have little, it has to increase the effort. The left is therefore very pleased that a revised national budget has also prioritised drug care, child protection and measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. The left has seen to it that before public transport, we have received the largest lift in history, with over $4 billion in this majority period. Several travel collectively, and the investments in good infrastructure, such as the railway, are on track. We have increased investment in renewable energy and in research and energy efficiency. We are also very pleased that many amazing natural pearls can now be secured for the public, by the fact that Statskog SF has the right to buy defence property. If our welfare is to be sustainable even in the future, more jobs must be created. We have increased employment, and there is a record in the start-up of new businesses. With a red-green government – based on their alternative budget – risks getting a government that not prioritize the environment’s priority in welfare policy, oil money use increases by nearly DKK 1 billion in a revised budget increase in taxes, including taxes on wealth, is significant – with almost 0.5 billion alcohol taxes, sugar levies and food budgets falling within the fiscal, monetary, security and energy policies. How these parties – with then to the degrees differently standing – should be able to learn if a government platform, to me, is a mystery. This is a risk project and a game of chance that can jeopardize well-being and jobs. The government party has worked very well all these four years. We have created order in the economy, increased employment and introduced targeted measures against poverty and poverty. And we've seen the environment at the front. But we have a lot more to do. We in the Left will follow up our ambitious and realistic environmental policy in the next period. We will continue to facilitate an active entrepreneurial policy, because new jobs are key to welfare in the future. The left will be much clearer in social policy. Here we want to give more priority to those who need it the most, whether it's families with heavy care tasks, immigrants who fall outside the workplace, or drug addicts. A government that can cooperate both on the right and on the left in Norwegian policy is undoubtedly the best solution for the country, for the best solutions for the environment and for citizens find one in fact in the centre of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e949	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e952	The last time I have the floor as a big-time representative, I'm going to ask questions about the Left is actually an environmental party. When we know that the transport sector stands for 25 pst. by climate change emissions, action to reduce them needs to be taken with a high priority. It doesn't do the left. This is the good example of – or perhaps bad example – in the revised budget. The left will e.g. does not ask the government to submit a proposal for a new one-time car tax system where the environment and safety form a central part of the basis. The left will also not support new charges for low-emission cars, e.g. hybrid cars. And the left is against these cars being able to use the collective fields. Has Left drowned as an environmental party in right-wing policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e961	No, the left has not been drowned – or put behind the right in the environmental policy. This is the best environmental government we can get. We've been protected by 50 new watercourses. We've got good solutions. We've got a petroleum-free zone in Lofoten – at the moment. A job with a good northerly management plan. The representative's counter-question can then be: when the Workers' Party wants to open up gas power stations without the best CO2 handling, it means that one at Kårstø actually emits as much greenhouse gas as 350,000 private cars. If we are to meet our commitments in the Kyoto agreement, it means that someone has to do something about passenger car traffic. Or is it other industries that have to take that tax? What will the Labour Party do for us to meet our obligations when they simultaneously open to gas power stations without CO2 handling? We have increased investment in technology with CO2 handling. I'm very pleased with the environmental efforts this government has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e979	Now, the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld does not actually have the opportunity to answer the questions in this change of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e982	I registered that the representative Vihovde started his post by thanking the Progress Party for a good deal. We're some people in that it was a reasonable and good deal. As you know, we have had more budgetary settlements in this period, both in the context of the 2005 budget and in the revised national budget now. A few days ago, the party leader at Left, Sponheim, was in the media and wanted closer cooperation with the Progress Party. That's what we thought was an interesting signal. But today, there is a new signal from the Viceleaders in the Left – which then separates from a closer collaboration with the Progress Party. Since a large part of the Left has already spoken on this issue, it could also be good to know what the representative Wehofde thinks about this issue. Does the Left and the Representative of Vihovde want closer cooperation with the Advance Party, or do they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e991	The representative, Mr Hagesetter, has asked me quite the same question in the past. I want to say, I am very pleased with the cooperation we have had with the Progress Party. We've found ourselves together in a bunch of things where we're a few. But the distance between the Left and the Progress Party is so great in different policy areas – in e.g. environment policy, cultural policy, rural policy, immigration policy. But having a cooperation – being able to cooperate on a case-by-case basis – is left-wing interested in. But, as I also finished my post, we are at the centre of Norwegian politics. We want to have a cooperation from case to case, both with the right side and with the left side. In fact, we believe that we will find the best political solutions. We have always been open and have had a good dialogue with the Progress Party, and being able to cooperate on a case-by-case basis we want to continue with. I also want to say that the Progress Party has had a significant impact on some of its issues in this collaboration with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. So such cooperation we want to continue with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1002	The left-hand side distinguishes itself in this hall as the lot that is able to have most points of view at the same time without redundancy, as well as in relation to the Progress Party. The answer that was given by the representative Vihovde now was not quite to be wise. That's why I could imagine deepening this. Party leader Sponheim has said that he wants a more formalized, closer cooperation with the Progress Party. The party of progress is a groundbreaking party, according to the leader of the Left. But the next day, both left's vice-leaders go out and say that it's not a groundbreaking party, that they're not going to have any formalized cooperation, and that they'd rather have nothing to do with them. It might have been interesting, as almost all of the Left's management has expressed themselves on this issue, whether the Left's big-time representative could also comment on this. Does it mean, in order to get it clear, that May Britt Vihovde wants a closer, more formalized cooperation with the Progress Party, in line with the Left Party leader? Or does she agree with her second leaders that Sponheim is tramping around in the salad, and that they do not want closer cooperation with the Advancement Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1011	Let me first say to the representative of Djupedal, who asks whether the Advance Party is a stunned party or not: when 20 pst. I have so much respect for the fact that I thought it was a bit on the edge to say that the party is not stunned. We want to cooperate with the Progress Party on a case-by-case basis. We see that with as much distance as it is between us politically, we can't sit in government together. I actually think that's what our party leader Sponheim said, that we can have a cooperation, but not a formalized cooperation. There is not an agreement in many different policy areas, but cooperation on a case-by-case basis. I think we have developed a good cooperation during this period. I think we've developed a better cooperation year after year and found good solutions in a lot of things. There is not always the left hand side of the solution you have found. But we've done it, and I think we'll be able to do it in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1020	I listen carefully to the representative Vihovde’s comments and note that the representative, who comes from the same party as the Minister for Transport, had a sentence on transport – and that in a situation in the field of transport where we have never had a greater lag in road maintenance than we have today, while the volume of traffic increases more strongly than the forecasts that the department operates with. The maintenance and investment needs of the railway are greater than ever. The means of racial protection are minimal in relation to the need. The share of gross domestic product in trade has fallen sharply over this four-year period. The total sum we spend on transportation is not unusually different than he was 10-20 years ago. What characterises the transport sector during this four-year period is the AS certification and privatisation that have taken place. My question to Mr Vihovde's representative is: has it been more important for the Left to follow the Right in this transformation into the transport sector than to do anything with the acute needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1029	I joined the representative of Ringstad in the Committee on Transport in the previous period, and we were involved in examining the first national transport plan. Already then, the Left signaled that we wanted more competition in the different modes of society, because we thought it was a great potential for efficiency. We wanted more for the money. We've done that together with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, and we now see the results. We see, for example: that the transformation of the State Road Service into Most allows smaller entrepreneurs to enter. They can give you better prices and do the same work too much less. That means one gets several kilometers of road for the money. It also means that we can increase efforts when it comes to road and maintenance. So I want to say that this government has given priority to road maintenance. But we have major challenges in the transport sector. I thought we were on the right track. We're approaching the lift in the Sem statement. We've come further than Sem when it comes to collective betting. There we are close to the promises we gave in the Sem statement. I don't know, but I think the jam is pretty much the same as what Left introduced into the national transport plan in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1038	I can't believe it when the representative Vihovde is so bold and says that they've followed up from Sem when it comes to the business. That's not correct. In fact, the government party is approx. $3.5 billion after what they promised in the Sem statement. It's hard to stand here and say they've done what they promised. They promised more than us and they keep much less. I hope that when one for the next period promises less than the multiple, at least it keeps a promise. Otherwise, it may seem quite serious to Samferdsle-Noreg if this government continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1044	The representative Starrfelt and I may be sitting on different numbers. I did not say that we have fulfilled the Sem statement, but I said that we are approaching. When you're going to create a whole budget, you're always going to have to look at the totals. We have. We have also given priority to road development and collective action within that framework. It will be a bit exciting to see what the red-green option will give priority if they are given government power and will sew together the state budget for 2006, because they have put very different figures in the national transport plan for both collective action and road action. They only have a sum, an increase in both entries, but it is far above what these three government parties promised at the previous treatment of the national transport plan. So the raise holds when a budget is delivered, not when a provider provides settings and messages, and when an opinion is expressed. It's only when you're delivering a budget, you're seeing if they're lucky they've given you.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1051	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1054	Norway's going down. It can be read by the revised national budget, and that is true. I would like to point out that the Government has taken some action that we in the Coastal Party will develop further. It is positive that the assessment of the disabled with higher education is based on qualifications and experience and not on disability. There the government has put into action a work of which it stands respect. The government is to be honoured in order to do something about the poverty ghost. All experience shows that communities with great distinctions between the population are getting rougher and harder. To address this development, the Government shall have all due regard for it. The Coastal Party will support a stronger commitment in these areas. It is also difficult to imagine that employment in the private sector is growing – slowly but surely. But here the number material is still characterized by a certain creativity. Having said this, I would nevertheless point out that Norway has resources to do so much, much more. The revised national budget states that the rise in the Norwegian economy is expected to continue. The coastal party has comments on infrastructure investments. We want to wind up the toll system, and we want free ferries. We have even entered in order for it to have to be invested on modern gas ferries. This perceives the Government as utopia. The Labour Party also sees the proposal for a strong development of both the coastal lineway and other major projects that benefit the districts, such as utopia. I have said in previous speeches that if we were representatives in an EU country with a lower economy than Norway, we would already have had full speed of investment both in broadband and on the road network. We wouldn't go into the toll epidemic that's spread all over the country. Everyone's talking about road development, but we don't see the money, told someone working on road projects in the Road Directorate. He could tell that Norway has some of the world's leading bridge construction experts, that we have very good people in both the design and development of the road network. But the money's missing. The Coastal Party believes that we are not using our historic opportunity, with solid extra revenues of tens of billions of dollars because of the historical increase in oil prices, to really bet on research. Why don't we do that? Why has it become so in some environments that the most skilled researchers travel abroad, to countries with a much worse national economy, like the United States? – Perhaps because these countries focus much more on research, not just because they want to, but because they have to, if they are to be able to modernise their country so that they are involved in international development. Is it really the case that we have a government that doesn't respect the importance of research? Is it so that the Right, with a former Vice-Chancellor from the University of Oslo in the middle, does not be able to innovate that any country that has visions also spend large amounts on research? Or is it that the educational abilities of the academic forces in the Right have collapsed in relation to the money crooks and the neoliberals in the Party? That doesn't promise good for academic Norway. The Coastal Party has put the spotlight on how this government manages its pound. It's not very uplifting. The government has sold cheaply or given away eternal fishing quotas to a few. A few in one generation have acquired ownership of the fish in the sea, a property that has been a central people's ownership since the dawn of time. The way it has happened is strange, from a corporate economic and state economic point of view. You can certainly wonder what the government has been thinking about. Of course, the government didn't know better, it didn't know the consequences. But that's wrong. Me and the Coast Party have long told us about the consequences. You could say that evolution went that way, and that it is the result of a modern development of the fishing industry and the fishing fleet. That's wrong. In Iceland, they have experience with the twist of the Bondevik government, and these experiences are clearly negative. You could say that the government did it so that the banks would get the value of the fish when they were going to lend loans for the construction of fishing boats. That's probably the right assessment. The Bondevik government probably believes that they have done banks a great service in this matter and sacrificed new recruitment in the fishing industry and the coastal population on the mammon altar. But it will turn out that they've made a big mistake. The banks will have their answer for when interest will rise again. We know that individual owners have bought allowances for 80 million. NOK without five flats of equity. Do the Bondevik government strategists really think that the speculative quota value will stay high when the system collapses? I wonder where the strategists and banks will be when the cracked gets into the fishing fleet. Mark my words!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1084	The Norwegian economy is going well. More people come to work. Individuals have greater security for homes, homes and jobs. Norwegian employers are among the most optimistic in Europe, and optimism is about the opportunities to hire new people. We thus have a good basis for continuing and renewing the good Norwegian welfare. These good results have not come of their own. This is because we have had an interaction in economic policy. The social partners have reduced wage growth, so that we do not praise ourselves out of international competition. This, in turn, has contributed to Norway’s Bank’s subsequent decline in interest rates, and the state budget has contributed to a responsible whole over the last few years through moderation in public expenditure and lower taxes and taxes. The social partners, monetary policy and financial policy have all contributed to the good results we are now seeing. The government is pleased that it has been possible once again to find a majority for a responsible budget in the Stortinget. The Progress Party has contributed through a constructive process that fiscal policy does not increase the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. It is important for the many with large loans and for our export industries. The government is pleased that we have managed to reverse economic development over the last few years. When we took over, the interest rate was sky high, above the European level. The availability had begun to rise. It started already in the summer of 2000, and the export companies threatened it at that time with flagging. Now interest rates are historically low, lower than in Europe. More people come to work, and optimism prevails in Business Norway. New information that has emerged since we presented the revised national budget underpins the positive picture. Housing is high, production in industries is going well, and there is considerable investment in the petroleum sector. Of course, the government should not have all the credit for good development, but our policies have contributed, and in interaction are all equally important. I would like to stress this, not to boast of my own efforts, but to develop important political contexts. There are those in this room who thought that the government had all the blame when the vacancy was on the way up. The same people now think, funny enough, that it's only because of luck when the time off is coming down again and more people come to work. You have to watch out for such a hollow analysis. I believe that we should not underestimate the impact of the policy adopted in this Chamber. The funny thing is that the criticism comes from those who usually place more emphasis on policy than on the market economy, whether policy is now not working or contributing to positive economic development. Of course, budgets are being dealt with by the size of the budget. Otherwise, it would have been strange with all the media noise around budgets, if they didn't affect actual economic results. I want to underline this today, on the last day of the Storting, at least before the big shot. The choice of the harvest is also an important choice of what economic policy we are going to pursue in the next few years. On the one hand, the choice is between a government that renews well-being, reduces taxes, secures jobs — and has documented it through results — and, on the other hand, a socialist experiment that can threaten jobs and thus also undermine well-being in the long term. We see at the reading here today an indication of what kind of policy a possible socialist government might think of leading, if it were to come to power. The centre party will take extra money from the pension fund, so far called the petroleum fund. In this way we can see that the party's promise in a play a few weeks ago from their parliamentary leader, that they should try to pursue a responsible economic policy, was a promise that was short-lived. The Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party will increase taxes on Norwegian jobs. Now in the debate this week, it was also demonstrated that they would increase taxes on Norwegian owners of dwellings. It would also be more expensive for those who wanted to invest in Norway. Together, this gives unsafe jobs and less to well-being. These three parties disagree on much in economic policy – on the rules of action, on the rules governing the petroleum fund and on its use, on the tax system and on monetary policy. The three games might be able to agree. But I feel quite certain that the compromise will not be beautiful. You would have shown it before the election, but you don't. At the end of this session, I feel a strong need to say that in my four years as Minister of Finance – for the time being – I have enjoyed working with a very competent Finance Committee in Stortinget. I would like to thank you for your very good cooperation. I would like to highlight the Committee's special ability to find practical results when the problems have been greatest.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1105	That's very nice of you to say. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1110	I very much agree with the political context that the Minister of Finance is making in his speech today. It is also positive that the Minister of Finance stresses the importance of what the social partners contribute to the whole of economic policy. It is very much in agreement with the Workers' Party. But what we disagree with the Minister of Finance, in particular, and the Right and the bourgeois parties, is whether economic policy and market solutions can ensure a development that benefits everyone in society. We believe that a much more active industrial policy is needed, more focused. We believe that there is a need for an active will for distribution if we are not to get a society that is developing more and more differences. The problem is that the policy that is being pursued now, properly ensures houses, homes and jobs for very, very many of us who are doing well in the first place, but it does not guarantee homes, homes and jobs if you are unemployed and have an even worse economy. It does not ensure a house, home and work if you are not ready and have reduced the benefit. This is our main charge against the policy that is being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1119	Let me say carefully that there will be something half-wheated and half-hearted about the Workers' Party's criticism of the Government in economic policy. They recognize that the results are good, even brilliant. There has never been more work than now. In industry too, the results are good. All industries tell us that there is a gradual shortage of labour, more than that unemployment is a problem. The freedom goes down. The number of registered unemployed, i.e. completely unemployed, was over 8 000 lower last month than one year ago. Total leave is well below 100 000. That's not good enough, but the direction is right, and that's a different direction than when we took over. One regrets that this is still the way it has been for the last ten to fifteen years, that the number of disabled people is increasing. But there is also a little bit half-hearted about such criticism, because this is the first government that actually does something about this, through a reform of the disability insurance system and through a probationary system to ensure that the disabled can easily try to get over to work and get support for the jobs. There are trials that will bring results. These are reforms that will bring results – not overnight, but over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1126	I note that the Minister of Finance felt that the voters were faced with only two elections in the autumn elections, either the current government or the socialist alternative. But I think maybe he got hurt to forget that there are other parties in this room that might also have some meaning for the result. My question is at the Government's management of the Fund's request to expand the framework for its share and bond investments. This has been a theme both in the treatment of the pension notification and in the treatment of the revised, where the fund explicitly requests access to a slightly wider investment horizon. I record that the government has so far shown no willingness to comply with this, and has pushed ahead of itself that this should now be transformed into a so-called pension fund. Is the Government going to do something to make it easier for the Fund to place shares and bonds?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1135	I think I'm aware of how many parties make elections, like that. I have probably also perceived it as supporting a non-socialist government, without going into it in more detail. The government said the following about the Social Security Fund in the pension notification: ‘The size has allowed the Social Security Fund to place up to 20 pst. of its share capital in Danish, Finnish and Swedish shares. It is committed to continuing the access of the Swedish Social Security Fund to investment in foreign shares in connection with the establishment of the State pension fund.» The Social Security Fund will constitute the State pension fund, the domestic part, but still retaining the possibility of buying shares outside the country’s borders. Nevertheless, it is important to maintain a clear distinction between domestic and foreign parts. However, there are no restrictions on the possibility of buying abroad. We will also consider whether other domestic investment opportunities will be appropriate, in other words, in addition to shares. However, this must be done within the framework of security which is always to shape our funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1149	On 12 May this year, the Minister of Finance was out in the evening post and said that the government's policy had made a normal LO family 130,000 kroner richer. The next day a number of economists went out and said that this calculation was unprofessional and hesitant, and there was even a quite serious calculation error in it. But the point was at least initially that they thought that this way of looking at this was very unprofessional. They even said, ‘Most of the economic recovery in Norway coincides with a strong recovery abroad, in fact the fastest growth in the world economy in 30 years’ time.’ At this time, on 12 May, the Minister of Finance took the full credit for Norway's success, the low unemployment rate and the strong growth rate, but he was strongly corrected by even the Right Member, who is now chief economist in First Securities. The Minister of Finance tried to share the honour with some more and even spoke positively about the role of the social partners. My question is then: Does it mean that today he believes that the interview he gave on 12 May in the evening post was not particularly relevant to the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1161	The answer to the question is no. That interview is still comprehensive, because it describes the welfare increase that has taken place during this government despite all Djupedal has said from this pulpit for four years and will continue to say throughout the election campaign. In spite of it! I have not heard any party member's economic policy, either from SV or any other party. On the other hand, I have heard an economist named Ådne Cappelen, who, as far as I remember, was a member of the SV's programme committee not many years ago. He has warned and said that the sum of all the SV's promises is impossible to implement without significant tax increases. I think he's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1169	It must be said that the government functions almost halfway, stated over all of us, seafaringly, but also slightly above all the voters who have so far not appreciated the government's economic policy. It's a little funny that one of the parties that will most significantly exempt interest rate fixing from political influence now believes that they can immediately collect political honor for a low interest rate. It is, as the representative, Djupedal, obviously so that the same government believes that international rise time and high oil prices are something the voters should thank Right. I actually think it's underestimating Norwegian voters a little bit. But my question is simply about the time off, because the time off is high, and the government notes that it will still stay high, over 4 pst. The question is, what does the government intend to do with it? What is the Government's ambition? How far down does the government want the free time? Or is the government comfortable with the level of unemployment today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1178	The government is not satisfied with today's unemployment level, but the government is pleased with the developments in the unemployment rate. We will continue to pursue a policy that continues to provide lower unemployment. That is the result of the policy that has been pursued, and then it is good to continue. It is not that international growth has led to excellent results in all countries. Then it's just to look at Germany, which has been struggling with social democratic governments over two periods, which are struggling with deep economic problems, lack of growth and post-war unemployment record. Or we can look at Sweden, which also enjoys international growth, but which is struggling with growth problems and stable high unemployment. I have to say that there is no pretense that characterizes neither Right nor other government parties. But I would have been given something if I had been the representative of Arnstad, who has promised economic moderation if the Central Party gets into government, and who then gets the following message from Morten Lund in this debate, that just spending 4-5 billion more than the government ever does, using 4-5 billion more each year than the rule of action suggests and the Government does, is economic moderation. Then I would have been stated, if I had had such problems with the internal context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1192	Several speakers from the Right have spoken today about housing and property taxes. Let me make it quite clear: the working party is not going to reintroduce housing taxes in Norway. The Minister of Finance can forget that! If the Minister of Finance believes that we in Norway have a proper tax system for housing and property, he is good! There's justice there's talk about that point, and nothing else. Finally, if we look at the budget agreement that exists today, there have been increases in the hospital sector; there have been improvements in commuters, seafarers, socket workers, special deductions, permitting rules and disabled workers – to address something. It is in many ways a blueprint of the Labour Party's draft budget. Was not the draft budget of the Government serious about these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1199	I think almost the idyll is taking over when the Workers' Party celebrates the budgetary agreement that they are not included in! The fact that a government comes to Stortinget with a proposal for a slightly lower allowance is just a repetition of what happened in 2001, when the workers' party government did the same thing and got it fixed up in Stortinget. So we have to say is roughly the same procedure as last year. Otherwise, I register that the Workers' Party will have a new investigation on the house tax without wanting to do anything with it. Then why do you have to have an investigation? And you want a new tariff system on dwellings. In fact, I remember as far back as when the Workers' Party formed a majority together with the representative Lundtigen and the Center Party for a sketch of a new tariff system which was then put in the drawer of the Ministry of Finance, and which was never taken up again by the Workers' Party government. And now you're asking for a new tariff system. Understand who it is who wills! What do you do with a fare system if you don't have anything to tax for?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1206	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1209	The government boasts of the economic results and is content with economic development. It is true that Norway has had high incomes in recent years. The international interest rates are low, the Norwegian interest rates are low, the oil price is high, and the use of oil revenue is greater than ever. No government has spent more oil money, no government has had more money at its disposal than this government. The more serious it is that developments are going in the wrong direction in many important areas of the economy. The most serious thing is that unemployment is now breaking down at a high level. The figures from the Statistical Central Bureau actually showed a slight increase in the spring, while the figures from the Aetat showed a slight decrease. Nevertheless, both institutions confirm that the unemployment rate is now at a high level for Norway, and the alarming fact is that we now have a high level of unemployment in a high economic cycle. Normally, the unemployment rate shall be low in a high economic cycle and high in a low economic cycle. The problem now is that we see that the unemployment rate is stabilising at a permanent higher level, and we are going to have a lot more trouble with the unemployment rate the next time we experience a decline, because the unemployment rate is already at a high level in an uptime period. The government has the primary responsibility for this, because it has not been committed to labour market policy and because it did not take the warning of the problems in the labour market seriously early enough. Unlike when we had a high level of unemployment last, when we were able to reduce unemployment through an active labour market policy, we have now experienced that the inactivity causes unemployment to fall to a high level. The second is that the differences are increasing. There is considerable evidence that differences have increased in Norway. It's always hard to combat social inequality. The problem is that this government has made conscious choices that have reinforced the social inequality. It has given considerable relief to the richest people in Norway, and it has cut unemployment, disability and other schemes that are important to those who have the least. The third is that the government is pushing big and increasing bills in front of it. When it took over in 2001, it was called the generation accounts, in balance. So we had opportunities to finance welfare in the future. Now, so-called generation accounts have gone from balance to a deficit of DKK 100 billion, reflecting the sharp increase in the use of oil money and a sharp increase in oil dependence for the Norwegian economy. The sharp increase in oil dependence and the severe deterioration in generation accounts are a long-term, lasting and serious problem for the Norwegian economy. The fourth government overlooks, is that competitive activities, the industry, are still being built down. The main driving force behind growth in Norway — and that is what the Government itself says in the revised national budget — is the strong increase in the use of oil money and the strong growth in private consumption. That growth is largely financed by loans. We know that growth that is loan-funded and based on increasing use of oil money is not a sustainable, sustainable economic growth. The problem then is that precisely what will provide for sustainable and sustainable economic development, ensure employment, industry, competitive activities, is greatly reduced. The competitiveness of competitive businesses is severely impaired, it is also severely weakened this year and is further exacerbated by the fact that we are now seeing the krone price rise again. Employment falls sharply in these industries, and together it means a severe deterioration in the part of Norwegian business that competes with the rest of the world. Growth comes from private consumption and debt financing. These are serious signs that the Government is ignoring. It says it's satisfied, says it's proud of the development, even though it's in fundamental areas like distribution, like the sustainability of economic development, like the strength of competitive activities, is going in the wrong direction, while oil dependence is increasing sharply. This policy has been implemented by the Government in conjunction with the Progress Party — a policy that has led to the reduction of industry, increased social disparities and increased dependence on the increasing use of oil revenues. We believe that this is a policy that goes in the wrong direction, which leads to Norway being characterised by high unemployment according to Norwegian conditions and increasing differences. We believe that economic developments over the last four years have underlined the need for a government that is not dependent on the Progress Party and that can pursue another economic policy with a focus on fairness and partnership between companies and authorities, in order to achieve sustainable and strong economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1226	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1229	We have two red-green experiments in Europe, one in Germany and the other in Sweden. In Germany, unemployment is at the level of what it was in the 1930s, and in Sweden, they have problems getting unemployment down. In Norway, the arrows point in the right direction. Unemployment goes down, employment goes up, and people have a more liberal private economy. Nevertheless, the representative is talking about the need for a new course. And when he wants to justify the need for a new course, he points out that the industry is being built down and that the growth of imports is higher than the growth of exports. Both parts are wrong! This year, for the first time since 1998, employment in industry is expected to increase. Today's industry notes that traditional exports are increasing more than imports. That also means that in these two areas, the arrows point in the right direction. Then you have to be allowed to ask: what is it that Stoltenberg really means when he talks about the need for a new course?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1234	Firstly, I think the government would have earned more attention from Norway than from constantly comparing it with Sweden and Germany, which is in a significantly different situation, among other things. because high oil prices are a big problem for them, for us it is a great advantage. As the government itself says in the revised budget, it is the high oil prices, the high use of oil money and the growth of private consumption that are the main driving force behind economic growth. And as the government itself documents, the competitiveness of the industry has deteriorated from it to today, unemployment is at a higher level now than when it took over, and industrial employment has fallen. Then you can hope that employment will increase this year. But with the development we are now seeing in the competitiveness of industry, there is a danger of further decline in employment in industry. What may be moving in the right direction is a strong growth in oil investment, which is due to record oil prices. The government should not take responsibility for it and it is not a sustainable and stable growth. The problem is that the Government has underestimated the problems in the labour market and now has a permanent higher level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1239	I listened with interest to Jens Stoltenberg, and had hoped that he might outline a little bit of the Labour Party's policy. In that way, I was disappointed. The only thing he came close to saying was that one should pursue a different policy – no views on what kind of other policy. And then Jens Stoltenberg claimed that everything he talked about with misery and negative things, etc., was done together with the Progress Party. Has he completely forgotten that the 2004 budget was something he himself made up with the Government? Several of the negative things that he criticizes us for, he did not fix up in the 2004 conciliation. He did not correct the wrong policy in 2004. Is it so that the Workers' Party is now going to continue and go into the election campaign solely by painting the hell on the wall? And believe the Workers' Party, for example. when talking about the local economy, that an improvement in the local economy of one poor percentage is the difference in heaven and hell?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1247	The Labour Party is not going to paint the hell on the wall, but we are going to describe the results of that policy Carl I. Hagen has been agreeing to vote through. It is therefore a policy that leads to a reduction in some of the most difficult in Norway, the unemployed and the disadvantaged. Some of the best in Norway, namely those with millions of income, have gained significantly more. We intend to continue to describe the actual results, which are thoroughly documented in statistics and in documentation from many different institutions. That's the result of a crazy policy, because you haven't done what you did the last time you had a lot of time off, you've mobilized a lot to get it down, but on the contrary, you've let it slide, and now you're feeling that your leave is getting stuck at a much higher level than what we've been used to in Norway. Besides, I don't think the representative Hagen was really disappointed that I didn't use my five minutes to describe the Labour Party's policy. That policy is well described in our programmes, in other speeches and in our draft revised budget. What I was concerned about was finding that development is going wrong in many areas, and that's why we need a new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1254	The fight against unemployment and for an inclusive working life is an important matter for the Christian People's Party and for the Government. Employment has now increased by more than 20 000 since the summer of 2003. Last month, unemployment was reduced to 3.3 pst., which is the largest case of unemployment we have had since the 1990s. The government is not satisfied with it, the Christian People's Party is not satisfied with it, the unemployment is going down further. But it's going in the right direction. I react to the fact that Jens Stoltenberg, the head of the Workers' Party, still repeats that the vacancy has stuck. He says he'll continue to describe the actual level, but does Stoltenberg realize that using such a term is the opposite? He also said that unemployment is now significantly higher than what we are used to in Norway. How then does Stoltenberg explain that there are now fewer unemployed than it was when he left as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1263	For the record, there are about 30,000 more unemployed now than when I left as Prime Minister. Secondly, then, there is uncertainty about what is now happening in the labour market. Thus, the Labour Force Survey of the Statistical Central Bureau, which also captures hidden unemployment, showed an increase in the last figures. The Aetat's number showed a slight decrease. Nevertheless, it is alarming that even at the top of a high economic cycle, with record growth in private consumption, high loan-funded consumption and high record oil investment and high record oil spending, there has not been any reduction in unemployment. On the contrary, there is a danger that when the economy turns upside down, unemployment will start to grow from a significantly higher level than normal in Norway. It is the lasting change in the labour market that this government has underestimated. It has not focused on targeted measures, training and active market policies to get the unemployed to work, but they have accepted a permanent exclusion of the labour market, and that is what is my main criticism. And when, in addition, it is based on loan-funded growth and not on the development of the competitive sector, it is a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1270	I think the representative Stoltenberg needs to be reminded of the rather close history. From 1986 to 1993, when the Labour Party ruled most of Norway, unemployment rose to 180 000 unemployed. After Gro Harlem Brundtland had ruled Norway for six or seven years, she still owed Kåre Willoch. During this period we have managed to reduce unemployment, we have reversed development, gone through a recession in a much shorter period, and now we see that employment is on top, and that unemployment is on its way down. In order to justify the need for a new course in the labour market, Stoltenberg points to the need for more labour market measures. But there will be no more jobs by any more labour market measures! On the other hand, there may be fewer jobs with the policies that a socialist government will adopt. Several banks have also pointed out that the consequences of a socialist policy will be a higher level of interest rates and a stronger rate of interest, and this will affect jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1277	The replica from Jan Tore Sanner makes me both anxious and concerned. First of all, it's very special that you're now concerned about what happened in 1986. Secondly, the fact that this government is so concerned about it illustrates that it is actually not concerned with the important thing, namely to combat unemployment today. It is true that we have had high unemployment before, but then it was full alarm, then it was full mobilisation, then we had a government that every day was concerned about what you could do to bring down the unemployment. We managed to get it down properly, and it was at a significantly lower level than it is today. Then we did not say that we were satisfied, then it was not that we relaxed. But this government is obviously satisfied with the fact that unemployment is breaking down at a historically high level for Norway in an economic boom, where we finance loans for private consumption and have high growth, not least because of it. While you should get up every morning and think about what you can do to get the time off, the government is more concerned about giving relief to those who have the most of them. There's a big and important difference between this government and a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1282	We're going to campaign, and we're going to convince the voters what alternative they should vote for. There will be a government election, but there will also be a party election, and I have noticed that Jens Stoltenberg has called for an election campaign where it will be fought with a blank weapon. He has also said that at personal level one should avoid stigmatizing statements. I appreciate it, and respect that Jens Stoltenberg in this way wants a pure-haired election fight. It'll be tough. But the Labour Party leader disappoints me when he repeats a phrase that is clearly practiced, that unemployment has stuck, and I will draw attention to the press release that Director Inger-Johanne Stokke has sent out, where she says that the figures reinforce the image of a better labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1289	The problem now is that we have quite high unemployment in a period when we should actually have very low unemployment, because we are at the top of a high economic cycle, we are spending more oil money, and we have a loan-funded consumption that is greater than in very many years. Nevertheless, the availability is quite high. And that's what's serious, because normally it'll be that when the economy turns, the unemployment starts to grow again. And because the government has accepted a higher level than what we've been used to, we're going to have much bigger problems in the years to come to avoid increasing unemployment. The main instrument is to bridge the labour market for those in the process of falling out, and then an active labour market policy is the most targeted action. Labour market policy is on the brink of collapse. The government spends its money on other things, including: to finance the tax relief of the Right. And it is therefore wrong to spend money on large tax credits when they should have been used to combat unemployment, or to provide decent unemployment benefits for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1294	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1297	Again we hear the tirads of criticism from Jens Stoltenberg. Then one would believe that Jens Stoltenberg has made alternative proposals in connection with the revised national budget, to which he himself referred, would be relatively significantly different from the policy he criticises so strongly. I find that with regard to the use of oil money, the Workers' Party and Jens Stoltenberg use exactly the same thing as the government he criticises for using too much. In the field by area, there is therefore a criticism from Jens Stoltenberg of what you are actually involved in. So if we look at the sum of the alternative proposals that he referred to, it's 3 per million of a government budget -- 3 per million is the difference, 2 billion of about. 700 billion. And it's a little sad actually that we've got a little too much in Norwegian policy of blowing up little changes, and that one later on as if they're very big. Another thing is this with the use of oil money. Jens Stoltenberg said it was an advantage for Norway. Well, that's it, but it's an advantage for the Treasury and not directly for the people of Norway. We settled the state budget last autumn with a total surplus of 169 billion kroner. Now when we review it, the surplus is increased to NOK 229 billion – NOK 60 billion that we didn't know last year. Then it would be thought that it was other than the Progress Party that could say: This unexpected new money that is not disposed of, is it something we can spend on them that could benefit the people of Norway? We don't know if that money will come next year, so of course we can't have any permanent operating costs, but are there any one-off investments we can make that the population will benefit from? It's been the Progress Party's approach to some of it, not the big parts, because we also think it's okay that two-thirds of it is saved. But we have allowed ourselves to point out that when everyone a few years ago went in to pay off the Gardermoban debt of NOK 7 billion, which had no impact on the Norwegian economy, we could pay off the toll for our toll stations and those that are planned to be expanded. There is no demand effect, no impact on the Norwegian economy, but in reality a sensible investment in infrastructure. We have allowed ourselves to point out that when many people talk about the great wave of old age that comes – you talk of course about the top of the wave and not the bottom, and that is my generation, as if some years are going to need sick homes, etc., that is – then you talk about the big problem, namely the lack of labour. Why, as the Progress Party suggests, can we not ensure that a substantial part of the elderly care provision is developed in other countries, so that we can ease the pressure on the Norwegian economy? Staff can be included as voluntary parts of the year or half of the year or when they will have a stay from time to time at an institution in warmer areas. The staff who have direct contact will of course be Norwegian. But the whole support device, buildings, cleaning, cooking, drivers, etc., will be local labour. Then we will be able to give our elderly a better offer and choice to be part of the year in institutions in southern countries, which has no impact on Norwegian domestic economy. They're getting a better offer. We're reducing the pressure on the Norwegian economy, because those who need care for the elderly are going to need it at home. That makes a lot of sense. We don't realize that we're alone in thinking in those paths. Then there are some equipment that we can of course buy from abroad, and that has no impact on Norwegian domestic economy, no demand effects. Actually, Norway should have had the best equipped hospitals in the world. We should have had access to the most expensive appliances, but the truth is that we are worse off than more of our lye neighboring countries. I call for a slightly more sober debate on our oil revenues, and whether they can't benefit the current population a little more. We should be able to have management systems that make it possible to distinguish between investment and operations, the use of money in Norway or abroad, so that when we have an economic debate, it is about realities and not the notional things that are happening in the Norwegian economy. In fact, it is possible to get a better instrument for a sensible and sustainable fiscal debate than the current national budget and government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1313	The treatment of this year's revised national budget confirms once again that the Progress Party is the party in Norway that has the greatest use of what I would call TV billions. They have billions of dollars for many good purposes in all kinds of TV debates and in all sorts of alternative ways. But every time they actually have influence, every time they're actually involved in influencing what's going to happen, the Progress Party takes credit for what they're promising, and what they're running election campaigns on. This time it was $20 billion they were going to move on. They were going to increase the use of oil money, but it ended up with zero. They were talking about removing toll stations. That's $13 billion. They were going to reduce fuel taxes by a few billion. It ended up with small money in all areas, and zero in these areas. It must be a problem for the Progress Party that they operate with a rhetoric, have a policy in debates where they have a lot of money that they are not in the vicinity of – and beyond any other party – to realize when they actually have influence. Everyone understands the need to compromise, but so much distance between primary requirements and what you actually vote for, there are no parties other than the Progress Party operating with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1323	There is far more consistency between the rhetoric of the Progress Party and our proposals than there is between Jens Stoltenberg's rhetoric and proposals. In our primary proposals, we have followed up all the things we said in advance. We're proposing $13 billion to pay off the toll, and we're proposing $3 billion to the hospitals. We're proposing the things that we've told us to do. While in the case of Jens Stoltenberg, he proposes a poor 2 billion kroner compared to the submitted budget of the Government. All small things! In 2004, Jens Stoltenberg moved to NOK 5 billion. This year we managed to move for NOK 7 billion – NOK 2 billion more than Jens Stoltenberg did the year before. When it came to the revision in 2004, Jens Stoltenberg changed by 700 million. kr. We've doubled it and changed this budget by 1.4 billion kroner. And Jens Stoltenberg knows that during the revision no one has any means of power, because we vote chapter for chapter and post for post.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1332	The representative Carl I. Hagen wants more for everyone. But it is precisely that it is a responsible economic growth that has contributed to the success of the Norwegian economy. This year’s budget has also contributed positively to economic growth, increased employment, increased optimism and confidence in the future of Norwegian enterprises and households. It's not just because of the government's policy, I'm going to admit it, but it has made a clear contribution and can largely take credit for it. It's a result of a wild policy. It is then with some wonder that I read the comments of the Progress Party in the vote on the revised national budget, where they say they are of that opinion. ‘not being able to use fiscal policies to promote neither growth nor value creation’. Is it so to understand that the representative Hagen believes that there is no good in Norway, that economic growth is not good, that employment is not high, or that unemployment is not going down? Or is it perhaps that the government's economic policy works, but it may be a little bad to admit it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1346	Let me first take away from this statement that is not documented by anyone, that we have more to all. There is no party that cuts as much in the expenditure side of the State budget as the Progress Party during the ordinary budgetary procedures. We cut quite a lot on the cost side, but we also provide significantly greater tax relief, including. in order to bring more dynamism into business, in order to have a positive impact on employment. No, we're not satisfied with employment. We think unemployment is too high, and we have full opportunities to do something about it. We have done so in the form of changes in taxes and taxes to stimulate the economy. The problem is that, for example: The working party does not do anything that will stimulate more persons employed in ordinary activities. Many things are good in Norwegian society. It should only be lacking when we have huge incomes that other countries do not have! But there are also many things that should be able to do much better, and the people who live today should also benefit from our good income.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1355	The Christian People's Party acknowledges the willingness of the Progress Party to find a negotiated solution for the revised national budget. This, of course, does not mean that the Progress Party depreciates its primary positions in economic policy in this way. Carl I. Hagen just made that clear. For the Christian People's Party, there is not the amount of increased oil revenue that determines the use of money, that's how the use of money works in the economy that will be crucial. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have a very different understanding. Now, the country's annual pension liabilities increase by approx. NOK 150 billion per year. years. Hagen and the Progress Party have called for a constitutional proposal to turn the oil fund into a pension fund. Nevertheless, the Advance Party supplies itself quite raw with oil money. What has changed since the Progress Party does not follow up its own proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1366	Had Steensnæs heard a little after, he had heard that I was asking for a system in which we could just discuss economic things based on how they work in the economy. It's not like this today. It is believed that a krone used has the same effect whether it is used for investments for the acquisition of future income, for real investment in commercial projects or for operation. It seems completely different. Money spent in Norway and money spent abroad seem quite different in the Norwegian domestic economy. That is why we are calling for a system where we can have real debates. Because we also want a responsible economic policy that creates security, which does not destroy the economy. We're full of what we're doing, too. But we point out some possibilities. Of course, if we were to adopt our Constitutional Bill, we would have to implement it. We cannot implement the proposal until it is adopted, because it would bring about significant changes. Among other things, they would actually exempt a good part of the social security income from premiums that today go to Social Security. They would become available for other purposes. It's something Jens Stoltenberg has never realized, but I hope Einar Steensnæs understands it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1375	It is good that Carl I. Hagen is so good in pro-milling, because that means that he will also be able to calculate the effect of the budgetary settlement that his own party has concluded with the government parties, which is in stark contrast to all the billions that Carl I. Hagen has in TV studios, and which are also in the primary budget line for the Progress Party. Siv Jensen said earlier today that the agreement was a good piece away from the main arrangement of the Progress Party. It's taking care of. In the agreement, the Progress Party has largely got nothing but to reintroduce a deduction that they themselves got removed in the autumn, in addition to a brilliant 25 million. DKK in tax relief, which at the top of all costs 800 jobs around the country. This is how we have been demonstrated that there is no realism in the main arrangement of the Progress Party, that it is very far away from what is possible to achieve in cooperation with the other bourgeois parties. In the light of such a small budgetary compromise, it is natural to ask Carl I. Hagen if he wants to have a little less fantasizing in TV studios in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1386	It's interesting that the socialist Lightbaking continues to speak foreign capital errands in this matter, when he wants to help the big capital to make changes as they would in any case. So now they've got socialists in their backs for it, and they've been able to imagine that a tax removal would have some direct effects. There are companies doing things. The framework conditions have now become equivalent, that is what has happened in that case. We're still going to talk about our primary suggestions. We will continue to follow up on what we say in TV debates, with concrete proposals in the storeroom. We've been doing that all along. The Progress Party has always done so through our primary proposals. We know when we might have some possibilities to put some power behind, and when we can't do it. As soon as you connect it with possibly entrusting power to the socialists, it's also going to be a different dimension to economic considerations. The main problem in Norwegian policy is that there is no agreement between Jens Stoltenberg's behaviour and rhetoric in TV debates and what he promotes from proposals in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1397	The government of Stoltenberg launched a way to use extra oil billions without breaking the rule of action. It was about setting up a loan scheme to clean up schools. Municipalities were allowed to borrow money to clean up and maintain school buildings. Spending $1 billion a year will cost 22 million. kr in the budget. Before the budgetary agreement, the Centre Party launched a mechanism to extend this to county roads. One billion dollars in the second half of this year for county roads, for a loan arrangement, would have cost 11 million. kr in the budget. We thought such a very small matter was easy for the Progress Party to get into a budget agreement with the Government. We thought that in such a situation of negotiation, the Progress Party would sit with the bay and both ends and would be able to achieve something in those areas where one sees that a power cap is needed. I think everyone locally sees that the way to do it for the county councils now is that we get to set up such a system. Why won't the Progress Party go in for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1404	First of all, I would like to thank you for pointing out how we kind of do budgetary bridging, because what Morten Lund says is that you have a budget of 22 million. kr can trigger an activity worth DKK 1 billion, while even the Minister of Finance is talking only about the 22 million in a demand increase. That's a crazy way to do it. But sometimes that's how we have to do it to make sense. I would like to remind Morten Lund that, when it came to the loan scheme for church buildings, it was the merit of the Advance Party that we forced it through in a budget debate. So it's like this: we're going to work on this for the county roads as well. But we have no power in the revision of a budget, because there we vote chapter for chapter and post. The only thing we can look at is the possibilities for the opposition to get a majority for things, where the government knows they're going to lose anyway. Moreover, a clean arrangement is needed. We had twice as many changes in the revision of the budget as the Workers' Party made last year. We think that's pretty good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1413	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1416	I can't let fall for the temptation to first bring a little visit to Carl I. Hagen. It's an incredible lever Carl I. Hagen we're experiencing in this debate. Now he's talking about the Progress Party having some power. Everyone who remembers how this government came to four years ago, remembers what kind of Hagen-show it was when he decided that no, it wasn't Jan Petersen who was going to be prime minister. Carl I. Hagen decided it was Kjell Magne Bondevik who was going to be. It wasn't just that, there were over 50 answers to questions from the Progress Party that made him most graciously, at last, recommending his group to vote in favour of this. That's what we saw of the tough kind! For Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party are about to become Bondevik's kosebamse. Now it is true that this bear is growing bigger, and larger than the boy who has it, but he is still in the position that he has power – which he does not use. What is clear to the voters is that all those who believe it will be revolution if they vote for Carl I. Hagen and the Advance Party at the autumn elections will wake up on 13 September to Kjell Magne Bondevik. We are faced with an exciting choice, and it is about which direction we are going to set for Norway over the next four years. Let me do some points. There are two clear alternatives that stand up to each other, where one wants more fellowship, and the other wants more tax havens and most for those who have a lot from before. When SV talks about more community, we start with the younger ones. Of course, we could learn a little bit from the Right Crying Tone and leaning back and saying, during this period, SV has managed to get NOK 7 billion more to the kindergarten sector, and we are so pleased that now we think we're taking a vacation. No, there are 15,000 more children in kindergarten queues, and we know that there are many more who want a kindergarten. Then SV does not lean back. Then we say, "We must have done this!" Our experience is that major reforms should be implemented, it is bad from Stortinget, because here we do not have the means to put it in place at the end. We want those positions that allow us to implement the kindergarten reform. All children shall have a right to kindergarten within the next period of time. Then we'll have to take a look. If a knowledge society is to rise and rise, we have to think of a modern school day. Erna Solberg says, we can't afford a healthy school meal. No, it's because she spends her money on tax bills. It is clear that Norwegian society can afford SEK 2.5 to 3 billion for a school meal. If, in general, high school students throw away Mom’s — or Dad’s — healthy food package, energy is running out of their way. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 12, smacking in at two school breads and a coke, being hypnotized and learning just as little after noon. 12 as they did before noon. 12, what does a society that is busy building a knowledge society do? Then we say, "Let's make the modern school day that makes you have school meals, good energy, healthy eating habits for later and a good starting point for learning, which allows us to interact with a practical, demanding knowledge school, which means that every little soul has to stretch to join in and build the country for the future." So to the tax bills that the right-hand side is now planning for the next accumulation period. The right has said that their program costs NOK 23 billion more in tax bills in the next period. So I see that Erna Solberg says to VG that they're going to hide it there a little bit. They're going to change the election campaign a little bit, because it's the way women have understood that this money doesn't come to them. Because there are highly paid men who get most of this money. Okay. But then we're in the vicinity of a violation of the marketing law, because it's not like it's useful to change an electoral campaign when you don't change the policy. If the Right really intends to give everything in this regard, but at the same time knows it is a bad thing, I propose the following to the Right: Change the policy, for ladies in Norway are not very stupid! Paragraph 3: We must have a new course for environmental policy. Point 4: We must have a voice in the international community where people hear differences in Norway’s voice and in Bush’. Point 5: We're going to have a tolerant society. I'm being provoked, more than anything else, when the Christian People's Party comes up with a proposal they're going to save their own election campaign, and that's to scare with what kind of danger happens to the country whose homosexuals have children. There are over 20,000 children in Norway who have gay parents. They don't have to get a worse everyday for the Christian People's Party to save its election campaign. We're going to have a tolerant and liberal society. Those who have been against all progress in respect of homosexuals should not set the values for the next ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1448	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1451	When the representative Halvorsen talks about more community, it means, in practice, tax tightening. The Socialist Left recently proposed a new model of capital taxation without shielding deductions, as the Government has now adopted. This new capital tax will be imposed on SV all capital income, i.e. also income on deposits. This I think the pensioners in Norway with money on the book should notice. In practice, this means that SV will increase the income tax on pensioners’ interest income to a solid 48 pst. So on top of that comes the property tax, which SV has a great sense of. In sum, SV's capital taxes and property taxes will give a tax rate on bank interest at an incredible amount of 123 pst. with the current interest rate level. It's on the edge of the bank. Can the representative Halvorsen answer if this is a model that SV will continue in the next period? And are there no limits to tax rates in the Community structure of the SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1460	I don't know if the representative Hansen himself believes in the claims he makes. But what I know is that no matter what I and SV answer in terms of taxes, the right is going to repeat the old lesson, no matter how wrong it is, no matter how much lies it had to be in it, and no matter how the claims are. For the Right, one chance to win the election, and it's by frightening pensioners, who don't have any reason to be afraid of SV. It's today's theme. Tomorrow, it's probably young children's parents or whatever it might be. They'll try to get them to dive into the wallet and be afraid of the last crown lying there, because it's the only chance Right can have to set the agenda for the future. In fact, we think a lot of pensioners are concerned that the next four years are getting decent old-age care in this country. We're not going to hire any pensioners. We're going to make sure that we have an old age care that is so that people don't have to worry about getting old.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1465	Kristin Halvorsen had had plenty of time to read out SV's program, even in a line-up, because it's not big about taxes – I've checked it today – a quarter of A4's page. There's not much to be wise about here. From a woman who takes the goal of becoming the future finance minister of the country, it might be interesting to get a comment. SV writes in its programme: ‘Market liberalisation undermines the future of Norwegian business.’ In addition, SV is committed to providing so-called ‘political tools to develop a stronger business life’, but at the same time they say that there is a need for internationally competitive framework conditions. How is SV to provide Norwegian business with internationally competitive framework conditions, when they are at the same time in order to increase the taxation of Norwegian business, which is already subject to tough international competition under higher tax loads than in countries around us? I would very much like to hear Kristin Halvorsen explain that, because this can be quite vital for Norwegian business after the election, if Kristin Halvorsen gets anything to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1470	Kristin Halvorsen has 1 minute to that statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1473	With the greatest joy – without being accepted as a job application. We have to put ourselves in Norway so that we can develop Norwegian business and prevent us from becoming a branch country. Norway will in any case be small. SV believes that we can use state enterprises and place more state capital in Norwegian business to ensure that we have headquarters in Norway, the knowledge part of the companies in Norway. There is an active enterprise policy to ensure it. Point 2: Siv Jensen is wrong when she claims – and threatens – that SV will tax the whole of Norwegian business. We have a lower tax rate for Norwegian business than what the Government has. [[Laughter]] That's actually true! We want, for example: in the case of depreciation rates for Norwegian industry, to improve the efficiency of the Norwegian industry in order to enable modern investments to be made by Norwegian industry. We know that it is not that Norwegian business can compete at the lowest possible wages. We have to compete in skills and investment and wise ways to do things. Norwegian enterprise policy must be part of the knowledge policy, and that is for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1482	In many debates, Kristin Halvorsen has criticized the Christian People's Party for tax relief, for taking from the poor and giving to the rich. On questions in the throne debate in the fall, Kristin Halvorsen gave a very unclear answer to whether SV, if SV came into the government position, would go in to reverse some of the taxes the Christian People's Party had been so stupid, or difficult, to support. There was an unclear answer in the debate on the throne. Is it more clear today? The answer is no. The red-green option agrees on the cost side, but on the impact, it is still equally unclear whether it is at increased taxes or whether there are other ways to cover your expenses. Maybe now we get a clearer answer. To the question of the Christian People's Party election campaign, we hope to join in our policy on aid, family, voluntary sector and environment. Hasn't she read the whole program to the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1493	I don't quite understand what has happened to the Christian People's Party in four years. I don't understand why the Christian People's Party's priority should suddenly be that what matters most to Norway now is to tangentize the tax reliefs given in the four years that have been, with renewed commitment. When I meet party leader Højbräten in studio debates, it is very unclear how much tax relief they have actually promised. In large papers, it says 16 billion kroner, the Høybråt claims 8 billion dollars, and the Right says 23 billion dollars. But when were the Christian People's Party's electors and trust-elects the biggest heart rate ever for the big money to go to the big people? I have experienced the Christian People's Party first and foremost as a party with care for those who are not born with silver spoons in their mouths, and who may not have the wallet packed. These are the ones that the Christian People's Party has forgotten. It's those who haven't come out better through this government's policy, and it's because you've given in to Right's main priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1503	It is obvious that Kristin Halvorsen loves the role of an commentator, but does not like very much to be confronted with the effect of his own policy. The reason why the pensioners are worried is that Kristin Halvorsen does not answer the questions. We have looked at SV's proposals regarding taxes on capital. One suggests an shareholder model, but without a shielding deduction. Furthermore, it is said that the capital tax must be imposed on all capital income. This means that pensioners have to pay more than 100 pst. of the interest on the bank deposit. That's why the pensioners get worried. The Socialist Left wants to increase the tax on capital, so that they have to pay more tax than they actually get from their interest. So now Kristin Halvorsen must soon begin to respond to the effects of his policy. She has previously given a speech where she said that SV does not have a very good tax. Now she has the opportunity to prove it by actually answering what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1510	I can say it again: what the representatives of the Right say about this is not true. SV has not proposed it. It's not that Sanner is going to notice in it, or say something else in the future, because this is the only option Right has to set the agenda. It is striking that a party that is engaged in tax and school does not ask anything else. In SV, we have an expression that we call "Day's Trues", and "Day's Trues" is attack from the Right – it may be from Sanner, or it may be from others. What is probably going on in the Right House right now is: Try to find something where you can – not say the truth – are enough to spread the untruths about what is going to be the option over the next four years. Trues have to do that. I actually think the voters are setting a slightly larger target for the next four-year period. What I can end with is to warn everyone against taking the accusations that come from the Right towards SV's tax policy, too good fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1519	There are several speakers who, in the line changes, are moving at the limit of accusing each other of both lies, falsehoods and one with the other, under the cover of the fact that it happens through other forums. The President asks the representatives to be careful with that type of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1523	I think Kristin Halvorsen now stands out by not even trying to answer any of the questions she is being asked. She only comes with accusations against other parties. My first question to her is: when Kristin Halvorsen believes to know what other parties have promised of tax reliefs, how much tax incentives can Kristin Halvorsen promise the population? What is the tax programme of Kristin Halvorsen and SV for the next period? Kristin Halvorsen spoke warmly about strengthening the care of the elderly. So if we assume that the SV and the Workers' Party meet in the middle in terms of strengthening the municipal economy, it will increase the total municipal economy in the country by 1.5 pst. My other question will then be: Is it sufficient, and how can she guarantee, if the municipalities get more money, that they go to care for the elderly? The local authorities can use the money for a lot of other things. And why is Kristin Halvorsen opposed to statutory legal rights for a government agency paid care for the elderly in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1532	It was still good that there was a little temperature in this debate, now that we are about to end this big session. Carl I. Hagen knows very well what SV has proposed in terms of taxes, and what we have said about what will happen in the next four years. We want to stay at the level of taxation applicable in 2004. SV increases the tax on high incomes, but facilitates the tax on low incomes. So we're not redistributing. We are not going to propose significant tax incentives. If we introduce the level of taxation for 2004, it is about 4 billion more. So to this with the local economy. There is a dilemma about how much the Storting should be fine-looking, and how much the municipalities should decide. But we believe that if you want to take more account of each one and have more tailors' attention, it's those who are closest, who can make sure to do it. Therefore, municipalities are suitable for the care of the elderly. But what the Storting has to do is make sure that there is money to do it, and that you have a control that ensures that you get a tailor's run, even if you are over 85 or 90 years old, and can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1541	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1544	This week we got more good news. The number of households with payment problems is halved in two years. Norwegian business leaders are the most optimistic in Europe and, according to the Central Bureau, lower unemployment is expected in the future. This testifies to good developments, and even representatives of the opposition should be able to rejoice. When the co-operation administration took over almost four years ago, much went wrong in the Norwegian economy. The interest rate was 7 p.m., far above the level of our trading partners. The crown had begun to strengthen itself and exacerbated the competitive situation of Norwegian jobs. Unemployment had begun to rise, and the high level of Norwegian expenditure had for several years been exacerbated by expensive wage-fixing and increased taxes and taxes. The government's challenge was to reverse this trend. That is why we have conducted a fiscal policy that has allowed for lower interest rates and interest rates. The big gap between Norwegian and foreign interest rates is gone. Low interest rates on loans mean relief for business, for many households and for many municipalities. Household income is growing, and the money goes further because the price rise is also low. Tax relief has given households greater purchasing power and business better framework conditions. The optimism of business has come back. Investments and exports are increasing. Employment is increasing. It trusts the government's economic policy. The last pay statements have been moderate. The government has focused on continuing income policy cooperation with the social partners. It is positive that the parties have contributed to ensuring good economic development through moderate settlement. Nevertheless, labour costs in Norway are still clearly higher than in our trading partners. We therefore need to continue to focus on keeping cost developments under control. Even though a lot is going well, not everyone is doing well, nor in Norwegian society. That is why we must continue to fight for lower unemployment, against poverty and for the further development of our welfare systems. We're on the right track, but we have more to do. As Kristin Halvorsen said, we are also going to further develop a 'tolerant society'. But tolerance is actually respect for the position of others, who you disagree with. The representative of Halvorsen's post showed that she needs to be reminded of it. Since this is the last major meeting in this period, I will also briefly mention some important issues and reforms that the Government has adopted: the school is strengthened by the reform of the promise of knowledge. Several thousands of new children have been given kindergarten space. Pensions shall be ensured through the pension reform. Voluntary organisations have improved working conditions, including: through the tax deduction scheme for gifts, which has already given them several hundred million kroner. Several who need it have received help by stepping up the psychiatry. The waiting time at the hospital is approx. half. Several have been helped through the poverty action plan. We have focused on environmental measures, both nationally and internationally. We have helped bring people in developing countries out of poverty. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Stortinget for constructive cooperation over these four years, both on these and on other issues. Together, every harvest we have also adopted budgets in time and each of our revised budgets within a sound framework, as it will be today. This has contributed to the positive economic development we are now experiencing. We have to stick to this course even after the election. An economic policy must not then be pursued that could jeopardize this development of well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1567	Today's government was deployed by the Progress Party. It was the Progress Party that intervened and made sure that Kjell Magne Bondevik became Prime Minister when there was uncertainty about it, and the government parties and the Progress Party voted for the Government's political basis in the Sem Declaration, the Government Declaration and the letters that the Government had sent to the Progress Party. They have also voted in favour of three out of four state budgets together. Although the Progress Party and the government parties have cooperated closely, and although Carl I. Hagen has stated that the Progress Party is the parliamentary basis of the Government, they obviously have difficulties in recognizing each other. They're like spouses who live together, but who have problems admitting that they live together. It creates a problem, obviously also within the Government, where a government council now calls for more formalised cooperation with the Advance Party to be opened up until the autumn. That's what Lars Sponheim does. The question is whether the Prime Minister agrees with the Minister of Agriculture in the view of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1572	Of course, we recognize each other. After all, we have acknowledged that the Progress Party favoured a cooperative government rather than a workers' party government in 2001. We hope they do, too, if there's a situation after the fall. As far as forms of cooperation are concerned, I have expressed our cooperation in the Storting on the issues we agree on. We had some sort of clarification of this in 2001. It also stands well after the 2005 elections if a similar parliamentary situation should arise. What Sponheim has said is a possible situation where, for example, The working party and SV in the continued opposition would stop working with the Government in concrete matters. I have no reason to believe that they will. Stoltenberg confirmed in the duel with me earlier this week that the Workers' Party would be in opposition, they would act constructively, i.e. seek influence in matters where there is a basis for it. Then the Cooperation Government will still have the opportunity to cooperate with different parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1581	I've been thinking about what to do with my last line to Prime Minister Bondevik. There has to be a question of values and justice – perhaps also moral values. Four years ago, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik promised that we would remove the so-called negative effect that people who have worked and earned the popular money will be punished for it through the pension. It's not done. The second concerns the treatment of officials who have worked a long life for the Norwegian State and who have been on a pension scheme. It was dramatically changed a few years ago by the Workers' Party, the so-called crack point case, and these have now been brought to trial against the State. My question is, why has Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik not followed up on his promise? He said from the pulpit three years ago that it was his condemned duty to remove the effect of the negative effect. And why hasn't the Prime Minister had the sense of justice to settle with the group of officials, led by Eivinn Berg and Dagfinn Aarskog, in the so-called crack point case?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1592	As far as pension issues are concerned, it is, as you know, difficult to achieve millimetres of justice. I have to admit that in the case of the so-called break point pensioners, among others. the above-mentioned high-wage officials are not the ones among the groups we have seen the most urgent to improve the situation. As far as I know, there's also a legal case going on in that matter. In the case of adverse effects: a government must follow up a decision — if no other decision is taken, or the Government explains to the Government that one does not intend to follow it up and it is accepted. And we don't feel like we're at that point in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1599	Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik had some sort of political inventory over the four years that have gone by, but had too little time, or did not prioritise, to talk about the four years that are coming, about what kind of plans the Government has for the magnificence that is now ahead of us, and what the Government wants to implement. It is difficult to recognize many aspects of the Christian People's Party when you now settle the status after four years of cooperation with the Right, and in close contact with the Advance Party. What I want to ask the Prime Minister is, how can it be that the biggest, most expensive, and most expensive election vow that the Christian People's Party is involved in giving for the next period is tax relief in the billions class? The right has promised NOK 23 billion. In the big paper, there are 12-16 billion kroner. I wonder: how great are the tax reliefs that Kjell Magne Bondevik will promise the highly paid and absolutely richest in Norway during the next major period?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1607	The Christian People's Party is well-recognizable of things we've created in this period. Of course, sitting in a cooperative administration is also a matter of compromise. That's what Kristin Halvorsen will notice if she's going to end up in a coalition. She cannot then stand after four years and say that everything in my program is fulfilled – but perhaps something. The Christian People's Party is aware that we have received a record increase in aid for the world's poor. Why doesn't Kristin Halvorsen give credit for that? As the first government, we have launched an action plan on poverty in Norway. We have expanded the welfare systems, the waiting time for hospitals is halved, the care for the elderly is still extended – we have over 90 pst. exclusive coverage, it has been an important matter for the Christian People's Party – we have conducted a more offensive environmental policy than the workers' party government has ever done. These are recognizable Christian People's Party matters. As far as taxes are concerned, we have said that we should implement the tax reform, because it is a matter of justice. There's a question that some of those who have the most, the richest who have the most dividends, are going to pay the same amount of tax as those who have the same salary. It's a justice case. It costs between 8 and 10 billion dollars. That the Right so wants to go further, there's no sensation. We made a compromise in this period, I think we'll do it the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1616	We want some reflections on the concept of'responsibility', because the Prime Minister contributes in the public debate to a fairly simple round of what is responsible and irresponsible in economic policy. Responsibility, of course, is about the number of dollars, but also about how to use the heads. There is a difference between investing in jobs and infrastructure and throwing away their money on candy. Responsibilities in today’s Norway need to focus on more hands at work across the country and on better local welfare. My question to the Prime Minister is quite simply: does the Prime Minister feel that it is a responsible economic policy to let public buildings fall due and let the churches rot and waste with the most important resource we have in the country, namely the labour force, when there is a need for far more hands at work, for example. in the care of the elderly? Is it responsible policy to centralise fishing quotas and fires in the Barents Sea without a comprehensive management plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1623	There's no fire in the Barents Sea. As will be demonstrated by the Government's publication yesterday, the allocation of blocks in the vulnerable areas of the Barents Sea will not take place until the management plan is in place and the allocation will not conflict with its conclusions, so that it is effectively respected. So for liability, for the number of dollars and how one uses them. When the Central Party was with us in the government a short time ago, not least the finance minister of the party was very concerned that one should not spend too much money so that it stimulated the price increase, and he had no own budget for the investments and his own budget for operating. That's wise. Åslaug Haga sat in the same government. We agreed on this, and we also have to hold on to it now, because some external factors make the krone price a little bit more recent. It is actually due to the votes in France and the Netherlands and a sustained high oil price. In that case, a fiscal policy must be pursued to counteract this, which can keep it in check. We've got more hands at work. The last figure for registered unemployed persons was probably 78 000. It's the first time in a long time that it's under 80,000. Several municipalities have improved their finances, but there are many who are still struggling, and we still have more to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1630	I noticed with interest that the Prime Minister explained that there were 8-10 billion kroner left in tax reliefs in the tax reform. In addition, you have promised to fully eliminate the property tax, which will require an extra NOK 4 billion, and so you have to negotiate with the Right. So whether we're raining in one way or another, we're talking fast about 14–15–16–17 billion dollars. No matter what number you operate with, the most expensive single bet of this government is still big, new tax credits, and it says something about a value choice in relation to what you think is most important. The second is that the Prime Minister did not answer my question. I asked if he agreed with the Minister of Agriculture in the view of the Progress Party. Then he showed that the Minister of Agriculture had said something other than what was said in the VG, because in the VG he did not take any reservations as to how SV and the Workers' Party were going to behave, but regardless of what kind of reservations he might have taken, my question is still: When Lars Sponheim opens up formalised cooperation with the Advance Party from the fall of, does the Prime Minister agree with Lars Sponheim? It keeps answering yes or no. It's the easiest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1637	I know that the Workers' Party is sometimes a supporter of simple answers to nuanced issues, but it often becomes quite misleading. I have on behalf of the Government expressed the answer that is to give: we go to elections as a tripartite government. If there is a similar parliamentary situation as in 2001, we would like to engage in a dialogue with the Progress Party on what we will stand for, as we did last, and hope on the basis that they will prefer such a government to a red government – it will not become anything very green, as is known. And in Stortinget we will reserve the freedom to also be able to cooperate with other parties so that there should be a balance between center and right and the opportunity to get through things that we cannot get through with the Progress Party. As far as the government option is concerned, it is not quite as clear as a given impression of, because Stoltenberg himself has opened up so that he can form a clean work party rule if there is no agreement with the Center Party and SV or one of those parties is too little to be involved. In the case of taxes, the tax reform costs DKK 8 to 10 billion to implement. It is clearly less than the tax relief that the Workers' Party has voted for during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1648	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1651	The government party has boasted of the unhindered economic growth and development of society. The Prime Minister mentioned the private purchasing power and the increase there. The representative Jan Tore Sanner asks why we want a new course and what he's in. While the private economy of many growing right to our times, people experience a public poverty where schools have to cut into teacher lessons and teaching materials, swimming pools have to be shut down, municipalities have to cut homes for the elderly, etc. Even people in the health and care services are becoming unemployed, while the need for them is increasing. We see how private schools occur everywhere, while the municipalities have to cut their schools. We see how privatisation has been a goal in itself, rather than a user's private service where it makes sense. The last ghastly example is the Railway Agency, where people now get rid of expensive final packages, and then the Railway Agency will purchase these services. Yes, we need a new course – a course that stacks our bones within our community tasks, so that everyone, regardless of the private economy, can secure good health services, care for the elderly when they need it, and so that everyone can get a good schooling. We think it's a public problem, and the public has to give these services. We want a new course that ensures all the work, that takes care of those who lose their jobs and that does not make the financial situation worse for them. The unemployed now have reduced their daily pay; they have been given several waiting days before they receive daily pay, and they have been reduced in the period of time they may be unemployed or in rehabilitation. We want a much more offensive industrial policy and labour market policy. That's why we're strengthening, among other things. Innovation Norway and increase labour market measures in our proposal. It is not enough to point to good economic growth when nearly 100,000 are unemployed and 800,000 are out of work. More and more people are falling out of work. Health professionals face major challenges. We think it's necessary to increase the allowance by $1 billion in addition to postponing the balance requirement. This increase is entirely in line with what we have previously proposed in this year's budget. It is entirely in line with the National Government of the Labour Party. So the representative, Siv Jensen, performs to harp on this and calls it populism. But the Workers' Party was dependent on finding good coverage also for the named addition. That's why we had to get the full overview of the detection capabilities before we got this in place. A responsible party must think in that way. But spinal operations and populism are certainly familiar with the Progress Party. We have now fully demonstrated that this time as well, among other things. in the case of commuters and forestry taxes. Someone is going to pay for the government and the majority of the population's taxes. We have not been presented with the whole picture, but before New Year's, it became clear that the commuters would pay some of this. The person who takes on the extra cost of travelling and living away from home and family to make an effort where necessary, got a tax increase of about an average. NOK 13 000. There have been many strange rules that commuters have had to stick to. A few years ago, we finally got through the fact that single commuters could also have a cooking plate and a little more liberal working conditions without being "forced" to the municipality of work. Now, the Government actually used this change as an argument to remove the deduction of extra costs by looking outside the world. So the commuters got a lot of tax dollars, while groups that need it at least got big tax dollars. This is an unsocial contraction that borders the tens of thousands of commuters to and from District Norway. Society needs mobile labour. The National Association of Construction underlines that one is entirely dependent on the mobility of the workforce to carry out civil engineering projects. Otherwise, commuting is crucial for the building around the district. Option is to move into central press area. The Labour Party therefore went against removing the deduction, but we lost during the budgetary procedure. The party of progress and the government were together to hit the commuters. Now we still feel that these parties have turned around and are some with us. It is now time for the cost reduction to be reintroduced. Yes, no one knows where the Progress Party jumps. When they have to hijack selectors, they turn the cap on the wind. Another group that received increased taxes was the forest users. It is also a hostile proposal. The forest is a resource that we should use more, not less. That is why we are now pleased that there is a deal in the financial committee and here in the Stortingen to introduce that the average equation for forestry, which will be with and take care of the logging in forestry out in the district of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1679	It is a remarkable turnaround that has taken place in the Norwegian economy since this government joined in 2001. «Bunny year», «record results» and other strong statements about an optimistic business life were almost daily diets in the news picture. Optimism is flourishing – not just among owners and business leaders, but at least as much among ordinary people, who feel secure for their daily lives, the daily lives of jobs, homes and private finances. Why did it turn? Was it just the international economic cycle, as Øystein Djupedal has said earlier here today? No, no, no. In many countries around us in Europe, people's security for homes, homes and jobs is much more fragile. It's enough to mention Social Democratic Sweden, and not least Germany, by 10 pst. unemployment, where Schrøder bulls tax relief in a desperate attempt to stimulate growth. When these people talk about how they feel about their situation, one understands that this with security for homes, homes and jobs is not a speck, but a concept that gives vital substance to people's lives. This was also the case in Norway in 2001, and we still remember how many were insecure. The situation has not changed by itself. It came because the business environment was improved, because taxes and taxes were reduced, because there was a responsible, tight and not always as comfortable budgetary policy, a budgetary policy that was necessary, and where political backbone was needed when populism's opposition winds blew. This has produced results over time in the form of economic growth and value creation, which in turn strengthens the ability to produce greater well-being for the population. It is a budgetary policy that showed firmness in the direction, which has been long-term and paired with an industrial policy that did not primarily support what could not live, but would lay a good general framework for what is viable, and not least for what is going to be viable in the future. The market and the world around us realized that the Government was serious, and the basis was for an interest rate development and a cost development that further affected the exchange rate, in favour of the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. From a situation where in February 2002, the Governor of the Central Bank described the economy as being «unladen», we are now in a situation where he should be able to use the term «credit». The International Monetary Fund is also in favour, and has recently given the Government strong support and good testimony to its responsible economic policy. The reports from the IMF are hardly widespread public education, but most people are still very satisfied. They can check the outcome of economic policy and industrial policy in their own economy, in their own job situation, in their own security and family. The average family in Norway has improved its real economic situation and increased its safety significantly during this period. Major reforms such as tax reform and pension reform are in place. Many go into this summer full of optimism for the future, and jobs are reported ready to most of the students flowing from a school that has really been in the cast for these four years. But is there no cutting in the sea? Well, we've heard from the left-hand side for a long time that there is a need for a new course. But what does it go into? What are some things that need to be done in order to improve business performance and increase value creation? We have heard here today from SV that there are community solutions and the statement from Kristin Halvorsen that it is clear that we can afford it. And from the Workers' Party we hear that there are labour market measures that are the solution. There won't be a lot of companies and a lot of value creation out of this. Is it SVs and Vallas 6-hour day that is the new course for Economics-Norway? I have to say it is troubling for a former business leader to hear Kristin Halvorsen answer questions about business and value creation either by flicking it away or by asking for questions that she is more able to answer. Then we also know that the Workers' Party and SV will not implement the anchor fastening of the tax reform itself, namely the reduction of marginal taxes and the liquidation of the anti-business property tax. On the contrary, they will increase taxes. The cat, or perhaps more precisely the treasure, was released from the bag of Odelstinget earlier this week. Then Tore Nordtun of the Workers' Party went a long way in imposing a mandatory property tax on people. "Owner can't be moved," was his statement, and I must give him that right. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that there is a fairer taxation of property. There was no mention of why strict taxation of things that cannot be moved is particularly fair, but then we get to trust the Workers' Party's highly developed sense of justice in tax-increasing issues. Is it really the case that the exchange rate with the government we're hopefully not going to get is that the Workers' Party and SV just change their tax mantra from tax relief for the richest and tax increases for all, and with mandatory property tax, which I'm not going to call the jewel in the crown, but perhaps the raisin in the sausage as perhaps a more popular expression adapted to the situation? Tax increases to all are hardly the Norwegian enterprises, workers and owners of dwellings most need to be able to continue the growth and optimism created in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1702	Right Jan Tore Sanner defended in his post the excellence of the minority government, and said that one should look long for a period of ‘less dramatic’. It has not quite looked like this when we have seen Jan Tore Sanner come out of the negotiating meetings with Siv Jensen, but it was now his claim today. During this period, there has been a possible question of cabinets for the adoption of the budget at each budgetary procedure, as happened in the first autumn. The Labour Party has had minority governments since 1986 and for almost ten years, and if the Right checks its excellent rock archives, I don't think they can find a single example that the then Prime Minister had to go out and wonder if you had to resort to cabinet issues to get the budget adopted. It never happened. But when the Prime Minister said as part of the summary of this period that every harvest has been ‘adopted budgets in time’, I have to say that if that is what is the criterion of little drama, the list is put quite low. A decision is being taken today that the Government itself says is unsustainable and will endanger hundreds of jobs in the brewing and mineral water industry. Last year the Workers' Party had this proposal stopped, the closure of this environmental tax. Now it comes as a result of the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. The basic fee shall be removed for disposable packaging in plastic but shall be in place for carton and box. So this is not to create a level playing field, as Siv Jensen defended this in his post, but it is anti-competitive – a favorite plastic over cardboard and box. This distinction is not justified, as the Government also says in a letter to the Committee. On the other hand, the distinction between disposable packaging and reusable packaging is a factual basis. There are still environmental reasons for this charge. None of the studies conducted are broad enough to support a conclusion on the opposite. The majority are not willing to comply with the requests of an overall timber processing industry and the herring and fishmeal industry, namely to comply with the trading principle rather than to continue with the CO2 tax. It is a mystery that it is not possible to get a majority to give important industry in Norway the same framework conditions in this area as competitors abroad. The loss of tax revenue this year as a result of such a decision is approximately the same as the removal of the land tax on PET bottles. So it wasn't because they didn't have money for it. This is a business policy priority which is at least not to be understood by the ‘most people’, as the government’s support party likes to talk so much about. Nor is it easy to understand why, as an important principle in terms of reducing CO2 emissions, the government parties, which would like to highlight industry neutrality, are in doubt about a special scheme for a sector as competitive as the wood processing industry. It goes towards a new summer, and I wonder if we will also experience this summer's freshness from the Right about lower alcohol charges and/or more liberal quotas. Such electoral agency has until now evaporated when the budget comes in October, but each summer I have had the pleasure of having to comment on it and be asked what the Workers' Party believes about this proposal. In the case of excise duties, the ‘record’ of the Government Parties and the Advance Party appears at all, quite contrary to what was proposed to the voters before the previous elections, and which the Right has proposed is due to take place in the next period, since the fees are to be reduced. Yes, they have to go down a lot if it's to balance up for the increases that have occurred in this period. Quite rightly, the fare was removed, and the fee on alcohol was reduced by 25 p.m., while the reduction in beer and wine was hardly noticeable. But the tobacco tax went up noticeably, so from this year on, VAT on everything but food increased. ‘Most people’ have, in total, received a tax bill of around NOK 4 billion from this bulk of population. I have not gone back and checked, but it would not surprise me if this qualified at least to a good place in the Guinness record book on fees increases carried out during a single majority period. So far, the last employee party government reduced petrol and diesel taxes by DKK 2.5 billion to $3 billion, and they did not even set half a period. And then we're going to hope that the voters for the autumn will give these tax credits to the government offices. Because if it is to continue in this direction for another period, it is expensive to be a consumer in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1727	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1730	The centre party has a strong and ongoing exposure to superdiversity. In the past, the Central Statistical Office provided this week with a message on poverty. Unlike the Government, which does not hold poverty in our country for large, easily identifiable groups, the Statistical Central Bureau states that younger and single dependants and immigrants are over-represented in the poor group compared to the population otherwise. So the central statistical agency confirms that the five strategies from the cross-checking messages are working. The same groups as outside cases in 1999 still fall outside. Then it is quite clear that it is necessary to step up efforts, so that many more people have a house to live in and a job to go to, and it is important to secure more against decorating. The central party’s proposals in connection with both the State budget and the revised national budget would provide further work. Our budget would actually give 10 to 100 year works without risk of interest rate increase or inflation. The local economy is central. This is where the differences increase when the scales are reduced, the home help becomes balancing mail and the options that follow those that require extra attention are cut. Norway is a rich country, with many possibilities. Most people live in great material wealth. We've also heard a lot about that here today. But groups fall outside. In addition, many people live in security today when it comes to schools, kindergartens and health services. We have freedom of action. It is important to manage resources in a wise and forward-looking way. My last words in this period will be to give honor to all those added to the municipalities that stand in the year after and year for good local services. Furthermore, I will give tribute to all the spokesmen and local people who stand straight in the back against a petty government and against the government's extended arms, the statesmen, and refuse to cut in school, in care and in good supply in their own community. They should know that there are alternatives. A new build-up may be made up of a party which prioritizes the safe environment and soothes rather than tax relief and the continuing large increase in private consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1744	Of the many things that have been important to me over the eight years I have been a member of the Justice Committee, it is enough to strengthen the legal certainty of children the most important thing. It was a good first step when the Stortinget adopted a Barne-Kripos in the previous period. This should not only reveal abuses against children, but also contribute to the prevention of abuse and restore the belief that adults are kind caregivers. In Kripos you have worked especially in relation to the abuse presented on the web. Police districts are deliberately focused on rapid investigation and the best follow-up of the children concerned. But this can be done even better. That is why the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party decided that we would meet a pilot project with a new interrogation model, with experience and ideas from, among other things. Barnas Hus in Iceland is considered to be part of the design of a Norwegian model. This has been presented in the revision by the Government, and I am glad that it now appears that it will be realized in the near future. We need it, because the target audience for such a follow-up model, Barna's House, are children who are at risk of destroying both their childhood, their youth and, in part, their adult life. In the present proposal, you work with a pilot project where you have a broad range of professional participation. It's important. And it's important that you maybe build this up from the ground up, so that we don't go into already existing parts and build on something that we have. I think it's important that we use the expertise and expertise that we have, but that this is built up from the bottom of, so that in what we do, we don't take into account the disciplines, but the children that we're going to help. That is why I am meeting this pilot project with expectations. There is no mention of where this should be established. I am of the opinion that it should be established in an area of the country where there is a relatively high population density and where it is easy to find. It wouldn't surprise anyone if I suggested that such a place, and such an excellent one, should be just the Drama.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1755	That's absolutely right -- I guess so!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1758	SV wants it to be easy to act environmentally friendly. That's why we want people to have a good collective offer that is pleasant to travel with, and that can be the backbone of the transport offer in the big cities. But also those who depend on cars should have good environmental choices. That is why we have supported all the measures that have been put in place to promote getting zero-emission cars in Norway, and that is what we think is important. Unfortunately, very few of these cars are available on the market today. But luckily what has been developed is cars that pollute significantly less than the average. We've chosen to call them low-emission cars. These cars are attached to very few instruments, but it is easier to get hold of them. We believe that even those who choose to buy the second best environmental cars deserve a pass for their environmental choices. That is why we have proposed in the revision setting that the Government should assess a reduction in charges on these cars, assess access to collective fields and assess free passage in the bombing. I want to take up here an incursion that has entered the Budget-inner.S.II on page 38, second column, fourth line. It says the word "parking". The word shall be ‘passenger’. The government says Norway should be an environmental policy priority country. That's a vision we share. This is a major task, because Norway has been slowing down in environmental work for the last 15 years. However, in one area, we are a leading country today: no country has better return arrangements for drinking packaging than Norway has. We have a return of 95 per cent on drinking packaging. So this is an area where we can be proud that we're the best in the world. What happens in that area? Yes, the Government, in cooperation with the Advance Party, removes the fee on disposable packaging – the central instrument for our having had such a high return rate. In the area where we were best, we need to reduce the use of tools, so that we no longer have to be the best. If no one gets to reverse that decision quite quickly, you need to closely follow environmental policy and have a very good lookout to see if there is one area where Norway is still an environmental precursor. It doesn't concern the Progress Party, I see. But I thought the government parties had a little bit more ambition than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1769	During this four-year period, the Stortinget has relocated the instrument in Norway. We have established Innovation Norway, we have reviewed the role of SIVA, and it is now time to set up a portal in each state, where new entrants and businesses can meet the tool together, without running from office to office. In other words, we are about to have an appliance that will function well as a service body for business locally and contribute to the creation of new jobs. But such an apparatus must also have funds. They must be able to carry out the tasks that the Storting has ordered them, and this is where the Government does not follow up. The government has a different philosophy. They believe that the market should be governed and that an active public enterprise policy should not be pursued. For us in the Labour Party, a good tool is an important tool, both in terms of employment, in industrial policy and in district policy. Then they must have funds and be able to invest in the areas that are our priority. One example is the tourism industry. It is good that the government has increased the travel life allowance by 15 million. kr. But a travel offer also needs to be filled with something. It has to be filled with something more than nature and tour, and then culture is important. Culture as an industry is an important field of activity for the Workers' Party. That is why we propose to earmark an additional allocation for this purpose. We have received many requests that applications in Innovation Norway are rejected because the cash register is empty. There's no more money for this bet this year. Then there's one thing that amazes me, and that's that the government parties can't follow up programs that go on for years. Everyone is talking about predictability for business, but the government is not doing anything about it. The furniture industry launched the Innovation Furniture in 2003. They received support from a unanimous committee and therefore started. Many enterprises are part of this programme, which will last over four years. But this year, there is a cutback in support, and parts of the programme are in danger of being taken out. This is a shame, because in our opinion this is a programme that is just going to enable companies to increase their exports and improve their profitability. We're proposing $4 million. kr to this program. The progress party put in a sacred prayer to get this money, but has not said where to take it from. Then there is one thing that has been a review melody in this debate, and it is that the situation in Germany has been compared with the situation in Norway in terms of unemployment. Then I think the Right Representatives have a bad history knowledge when they see what Germany has been like over the last few years. This is not a very good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1782	I'm glad the government took the hall again. It was a little special that the government seemed to have ended today's financial debate, while the finance committee is not quite finished yet. Throughout the period since the hospital reform was established, we have experienced a great deal of anxiety among people related to hospitals, anxiety about closures, anxiety about the closure of maternity wards, about emergency surgery – things that people experience as important to their own security where they live. Torchtoga, newspaper posts and debate meetings have been among our many. Many of us have been present on them, and they are important expressions that we must take seriously. During the entire period, SV has taken responsibility for the hospital economy, both within somatics, rushes and psychiatry, and has in the revision paid NOK 1 billion to these areas. But not everything is about allowing new money. One also needs to look at how we use the money in this sector. The government is now building up a parallel private hospital, which they encourage through active political action. SV means that we're now no more here than we should primarily use the hospitals we have before we start encouraging new, private clinics. What we see is that the private clinics take patients with relatively simple suffering. Of course, it's problematic for those who have oxygen in a knee, but it's relatively simple operations, and they tend to. The public hospitals are left with patients who have extensive sufferings that take a long time to treat, and in which DRG funding does not in the same way encourage economics. In addition to losing public hospitals for patients, private clinics are losing, which can offer a salary far beyond the public hospital can, including public hospitals for competence, which we especially see in the districts. For the first time, the government acknowledges that the financial arrangements they provide for hospitals will affect patient rights. That's a clear speech, because when I'm out debating with representatives from the government party, they say it's the exact opposite. SV is very pleased that we will finally be able to agree on the proposal to postpone the balance sheet requirement for hospitals. We have proposed this many times, as late as in the 2005 state budget. We note that the Progress Party, which has actively voted against the proposal both before Christmas and last year, now three months before the election has come to the conclusion that it was a good proposal to support. All the tragic situations we've experienced in the last few years because people with great mental disorders have not received help, I don't think we've seen the end of it. In the revised version, there is not much writing about psychiatry. SV follows up our promises. We're adding 30 million. psychiatry in children and young people. There's in no way enough money, but it's a revised budget. I should like the Government to take responsibility for what they have claimed, and the Minister of Health himself has claimed so many times, that now mentally ill people are going to get help in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1799	The fact that the Norwegian economy is going a little bit better is none of the parties alone can take credit for it, because there are several factors that have contributed to this. Of course, the use of oil money is one of them, but perhaps the most important, decisive ratio is moderate wage demands, moderate environmental requirements and wage fixing. In other words, collective reasoning between social partners has contributed well to the results. Although many have increased their purchasing power, many tax incentives were created by the removal of the commuting deduction. Reasonably, this is now being reintroduced. We still have a lot of unsolved problems, and you shouldn't be surprised that you're spending time getting to grips with them. It is a fact that there are still at least 100,000 people who would like to have a job to live on. It's a fact that it's become tougher for those who've become unemployed. They have less to live off than before, and there are many of them who are struggling hard to keep houses and homes and have a "whole" life. It's a fact that there's become more unsatisfied. It is a fact that several of these could have been in full or partial employment if the working life had not become so much tougher. It is a fact that more people could have been working on the organisation of work in the workplace would have been better, if the use of the combination of work and social security had been greater, and if the flexibility of rules, and not least status, in the workplace, had been better. It had given many dissatisfied a better life. For many years there has been a demand from business that they will have stable, predictable framework conditions in order to better plan their activities in order to increase their performance and provide safer jobs. Everyone here in the house says, "Yes, that's important. However, with regard to the municipal sector, which is the largest provider of learning and care services in this country, other predictability criteria are used. The municipal sector is used to living in great uncertainty, and with the government's plans for next year, municipal service production will face new, demanding challenges. They need to plan for further cuts, and in the upland municipalities, 190 million have already been used in 2005. less for care and learning. The sectors that are getting too little money compared to the tasks they are going to do are the municipal sector and hospitals. And it actually shows differences in the choice of social view and direction. It is a strong wish of the bourgeois parties to promote the production of services in the care sector as a product, a product to be purchased. There is no safety and freedom of action in choosing from a price list if one is to be turned around two or three times at night, and that it costs x the number of kroner to have a hand to hold in. It is the choice of social and social views that voters should include a settlement in this election. A settlement should be included if you want more tax relief or safer care and learning services. The choice should be very simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1812	On Wednesday there was a larger mark outside the Storting of striking brewers. There was also a nationwide strike in the sector in protest against the budgetary settlements of the bourgeois parties, which in the number of millions of dollars implies a modest change in the charging system, but which gets dramatic results for many breweries and jobs around the country. It is the Progress Party that has probably given up around 800 jobs in exchange for 25 million. kr in the fee bill. The argument has been competitive, although the reality is that without this charge, very many Norwegian jobs with long traditions, which are initially viable, cannot compete. The result will be environmentally harmful long-distance transport on trailers of bridge products and bottles, preferably from the continent up to Norway. The one-off packaging charge has ensured that in Norway we have a system that has both maintained a decentralised brewery structure and has provided significant environmental benefits. There are not so many areas left where Norway is an environmental policy priority country. But just when it comes to the use of reusable bottles, we're actually at the top of the world. So now the government, which has done so little for the environment, will remove this scheme and ensure that Norway is as bad as most other European countries in terms of re-use. The debate on the levy has referred to a number of research reports which have concluded that this environmental impact is impaired. It is then important to show that the researchers themselves made the report on the basis of the Government's proposal to remove this tax, last year sent a letter to the Finance Committee asking for their research to be used in this way, precisely because they had not taken into account the consequences of centralisation of the brewery structure, which would, of course, be a major increase in transport needs. It is also important to stress that nature and youth and the Nature Conservation Association are associated with the trade movement and the red-green parties on this issue. It is a charge that is in practice a Kinder Egg, which takes care of three things at once, both environment, local traditions and culture and many workplaces. I think that the bourgeois parties will be surprised when they see how much local involvement this issue will trigger in many places, and the importance of there being a rematch on this matter at the elections on September 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1823	I take the floor, among other things. to stress that, in the case of defence, the revised national budget elaborates on the financial management measures dealt with in Stortinget on Tuesday, in the light of St.meld’s attitude. No 29 for 2004-2005. I refer here to the debate and attitude of the Defence Committee. This also applies to the 600 million year defence budget. kr of the exceedances of NOK 1,1 billion. We know it will mean a lower level of activity in 2005, but it'll do the defense. So I'd like to mention the Five Music Corps of Defense, which is in an economically difficult situation. The working party therefore proposes to strengthen the corps by 14 million. kr this year, so that they can carry out play missions in the community and in the defence. The corps are an important link between defence and civil society, and I find it unfortunate that relatively small variable costs prevent activity, especially when the large determined costs still run. I am particularly disappointed that the Progress Party does not participate in the additional appropriations, at least as their defence spokesperson has spoken to the media throughout the spring. The foundation stone for the new building at Akershus was laid this week. Can I recall that the decision on this building was actually taken in the same defence policy agreement as the Haakonsvern dry dock was in June 2002? Revised appropriations are only allocated to the dock, which means that the decision on completion in 2006 can hardly be complied with. That's very regrettable. The Labour Party supports the proposal of 10 million. kr to Sudan. It is an important follow-up to the assistance granted, in addition to our responsibility for the peace agreement. Peace forces in Sudan are a necessity for a stable Sudan. We also support reintroducing 20 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr to industrial development through the Eurofighter Agreement. The Government has chosen to return to the Storting in respect of the defence properties to be made available to the public. It's what they've chosen to do in the revised. A year ago, the Labour Party launched this initiative – an initiative that was unanimously welcomed here in this Chamber. It's really time – I have to say – that this list of selected properties is coming. Although I would like to see Skar camp in Maridalen on this list, the fact that there is now a list of properties to be made available to the public is very good. But I would remind you that it has taken one year, and that this was an initiative that in no way came from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1838	I would like to comment on the proposal to extend the quota by one week and the proposal to extend the right to cash support for adoption children. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to add to a social system that makes it easier for both sexes to combine working life and family life. Studies show that if infants are given time with their children at an early age, understanding of the relationship with their children increases. The basis for a good relationship between father and child is already laid in the first year. Researchers Brandt and Kvande have concluded that earmarked leave schemes could help fathers to limit their employer. This is the result of the theory that opportunities follow rights. In addition, the extension of the spring quota may provide mental support to parents seeking a further breakdown of the benefit period. The extension of the benefit period goes to the mother whose father is not entitled to maternity and adoption benefits, whose mother is solely concerned with the care of the child, or whose father has a derogation from the parental allowance. The proposal for an extension of the spring quota is an important improvement in the birth and adoption payment scheme, and that is the first extension of the benefit period since the introduction of the spring quota in 1993. The Christian People's Party believes that the extension of the spring quota should be implemented as an extension of the total period of leave. Other solutions will reduce parental freedom of choice and could be seen as a reduction in established rights. We do not want to force all mothers to work long before the child is one year old. Many women have heavy pregnancies. Neither are all the fathers who can bring the baby to and from Mom's place of work if she wants to continue breast-feeding, but commutes a piece to work. We must not create unnecessary time constraints for families with babies. The child’s need for peace and stability must be focused. Here, family policy is more important than full equality – men cannot, after all, give birth to children. The Christian People's Party is pleased that adoptive children are now entitled to cash support for two years, in line with other children. Cash support for adoption children shall be paid as from the calendar month following the expiry of the grant period for adoption. The social benefit period with full payment of adoption money is now 39 weeks from taking care. Under today's rules, constant support is not paid after the child reaches the age of 3. In order for an adoptive family to benefit from cash support for two years, care must be taken before the child is three to four months old. The few foreign adopted children come to Norway so early. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that parents who adopt children have the opportunity to spend a lot of time with the child, so that they can create proximity and security for the child in new surroundings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1855	In the middle of the celebration on 7 June, the Prime Minister had to go on TV, in several channels, to try to shame the Government — it was about the training offered to drug addicts at the private drug institutions. The Government then knew that this training grant system was not working. For over a year, different departments have known about this. Councillor Kristin Clamet was in Stortinget's Question Time on 11 May and rejected the solution. On the same day that the Prime Minister promised that he would find a solution to this, a letter came to Tyre that the department was not interested in finding an emergency solution that could save the offer. Then the prime minister was out and said that of course we can't sit still with our hands in jail and watch that the training offered to those who go through a drug treatment, this is over the top. It is absolutely essential that people who go through drug treatment also receive training that allows them to get into work, and many of them need training in order to be able to accept an education offer at all. Then came the government with a solution that was to be revised. It says that the Storting should be aware that the Government is working on finding a solution – but there is no solution. So I asked the Prime Minister a written question, and I got the answer yesterday. It says: ‘I can also confirm that I have taken the necessary initiatives to resolve the acute situation of Tyre.’ Of course, I'm happy about that. But it is such that this training offer is run by Ringsaker Municipality, which is to have a Presidency meeting on Wednesday. You have to have a solution in place within that time, so it doesn't exist. I have to get a clarification from the Government and the government parties today that the emergency response to be found is to be able to operate this offer until the new funding system, all of which is agreed on, is in place – not just out of the next six months of 2005, so that it goes over again at the next state budget. Finally, when I see the financing solution that the Government and the Advance Party have found in this case, I get angry and despaired. So here we have a revised budget, we've moved in billions, and we've made a deal where we've taken $950 million. kr from the stock item. And in order to reduce the training offered to some of the most vulnerable in society, you have to take money from the other care services or from the poverty package! Yes, I think that's the mark of this government, that when it's going to solve a problem for someone, the other one poses an equally big problem – and maybe someone who has it almost even worse. Because as principal of Tyreli said to me today: Yes, then it might be to take money from someone who has not even come into the rehabilitation offer yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1873	The revised national budget shows good growth rates for the Norwegian economy, but it must also be noted that unemployment will continue to remain at an excessive level in the long term and that investment in industry and the public sector is at a low level. The debate today has shown that we have government parties and a government that wants to take political honour for decisions that they have wanted to place as far away from political influence as possible. Low interest rates are one of those things, and also oil price issues, which are one of the main drivers of growth in the Norwegian economy. I think the voters are going to see through that, but the voters aren't going to be so very concerned about what the economic conditions are like in the Norwegian community. I think a lot of people think we're good, we're consuming more and more, but the distribution between us is biased, and the unemployment is still too high. High unemployment requires more offensive measures than the Government proposes in the revised national budget. The government announced in the municipal bill yesterday still low growth in the municipal economy. This will mean that the municipal sector does not have sufficient resources to meet an increasing need for growth, education and care. The reality is that we need more hands in the work of municipal welfare, and we need fewer hands in the job queue. A significant strengthening of the local economy would be a central contribution to reducing the high level of unemployment we have today. The centre party believes that we need a more active industrial policy in Norway, a heavier commitment both to infrastructure and to industrial development. We believe it has been important that one has chosen to invest more financial resources in the development of transport, in broadband development, in travel, in research and development contracts, in equity and deposits in SIVA or in Innovation Norway, but also more in developing the fishing industry as a valuable business path for Norway. We note that the Government in this area does not show the will that we believe is necessary in order to be able to continue. In the revised national budget, the government assumes that there will be an interest rate increase of up to 1 pst. in the coming years, and a doubling of the level of three-month money market interest rates up to 2008. That's interesting, because there's reason to note that the government's warnings of an increase in interest rates as a result of any government change seem to have no reason other than a general expectation of increased interest rates, increased interest rates no matter what government we're going to get. The Central Party has the ambition to contribute to a responsible economic policy. We want to remember that none of the parties complied with the rule of action last fall. We will pursue an economic policy with a different distribution and a different emphasis than what the Government does. There will be other priorities than tax havens that will be important to us. Our priorities will be to get more hands on work, to increase investment in business and thus also to increase value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1888	I want to start where I ended my previous post – back to the gift package from the Norwegian people to a few shipowners and the speculation economy that follows in the wake of this. I'm tracking that we're going to have a real billion-dollar kid. Shall we then experience that the banks come to Stortinget again and ask for help, as they did last? The State has major interests in the largest banks in Norway. How will it be perceived by ESA if, after being rescued once, after wanting to speculate in the farming industry, next time the banks are to be rescued from wild speculation in the traditional fishing industry? A fisherman who had been out early and bought cheap allowances said this: We fishermen buy. When the crack comes, it's the banks that's gonna get dizzy. When I spend time on this matter, it's because we've seen here that the government has squandered billions in a way that's likely to lead to a crack in one of our most important export industries -- an industry that all politicians just a few years ago claimed was going to become the country's most important industry after the oil age. When I spend so much time on the Government's fisheries policy, it is because the Bondevik government has started a wild speculation on the eternal values of Coast Norway and the Norwegian population, while claiming that the Coastal Party's commitment to creating real values such as modern infrastructure, research to create a modern Norway, yes, to a solid development of Norway, is pure utopia. In such a perspective, I have problems giving the Bondevik government a boost to the way of ruling the country. Yesterday I raised the problem of the environmental bomb that lies outside of Fedje, the submarine U-864. I propose in a distributed proposal that the revised national budget should allocate 14.4 million. kr for pre-projection. That's because we have to do something with the mercury load that's inside and outside the submarine, and that weight. The Ministry of Fisheries found out about the boat in 2003, as the Minister of Fisheries said yesterday, says everything about the Ministry of Fisheries. I have known about the boat for several years, and I have also asked questions about this. City ship tunnel is a good project, which will provide a new and efficient quick-boat connection from Stavanger to Ålesund and Molde and make it safer for cargo ships and fishermen, who now have to go around town. The coastal party is in favour of a strong increase in the framework grant to municipalities. Too many municipalities are pale. We can discuss in the knowledge and the broadness of what is the cause, but it does not help those municipalities that are in real trouble – and most of them are. We're also increasing the North Norway grant. Because we remember what happened in winter, when the Salvation Army took the city, when the bishop brought the matter up in his services. The coastal party fights for the county municipalities. We're not on the shelf that's going to wind up the elected level, because we know that the districts are going to lose. We want to increase the grant to the county councils because they've earned it. This government does not boast much of innovative measures. The Coastal Party supports those who will start mobile slaughterhouses and believes that they need to be given the necessary means to implement their plans. I am addressing the proposals from the Coastal Party included in the vote and the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber. Finally, I would like to stress that the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1918	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1921	I take the floor to focus on a proposal that has been put forward today, proposal No. 113, which I will record on behalf of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. The proposal states: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that, from 2006 onwards, installation contributions can be made for the transfer of electricity to areas where an increase in network/cable capacity is a prerequisite for the expansion/establishment of industry/enterprises in smaller communities.’ The situation is that we have some smaller communities – coastal communities, island communities – that depend entirely on increasing the capacity of power supply, on energy supply, for them to survive. The industry is doing well, the aquaculture industry and the fishing industry are doing well, but one is totally dependent on increasing power supply in order to survive and expand. Because of a weak population base, they do not have the ability to cover themselves. It depends on the community being involved and contributing. What is contained in the proposal is that we can contribute to this through the central tariff and through Statnett. The proposal is entirely in line with what is stated in an inward remark. S. No 240 of the Financial Committee, including: The progress party has been on. An alternative that is more detailed than our proposal is signalled, namely that the Stortinget should ‘ask the Government, through its role as a corporate meeting in Statnet, to consider whether, from 2006, a balancing fund should be set aside above the central rate of 30 million. crowns each year.’;» This is a note that is a true copy of our proposal, which indicates exactly the same direction – but ours is not so detailed. It is very important for local communities to adopt this proposal. In Northern Ireland, island communities are Værøy, Røst and Train. There are also a number of other island communities with a weak population base — it says — where increased power supply is a prerequisite for expansion and for these communities to survive at all. I would particularly like to encourage the Progress Party to look at the proposal, because it is entirely in line with what they themselves have written in their comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1937	The representative Geir-Ketil Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1940	In this debate, the right has said that the Central Party will have higher taxes on business. That's wrong. It is three days since we dealt with the tax arrangements for self-employed people. The Central Party has made more proposals that would have given lower taxes than the Government’s proposal would have given. One concerns fund schemes, which they have in Denmark, and which businesses in Norway have also asked for. Another point is to add a risk to the display rate. It would have provided much lower taxes for the self-employed and those covered by that model. The third point concerns the taxes on wealth on working capital. Together with the Coastal Party, we are presenting today proposals for exemptions from property taxes on working capital. It's about NOK 2.5 billion. This is a tried and tested method in Sweden. For some reason, the Government will not be involved in this proposal. I wonder if they are reading the letters from the NHO, from the Business Federation, from HSH and from the other business representatives who have said that either we must get rid of all taxes on wealth in connection with this reform, or at least we must get rid of taxes on wealth on working capital. So this is not listening to the right. I wonder: why isn't Right more concerned with business? Why is the Right most concerned with removing the housing tax — rather than facilitating Norwegian business? It is then warned against and frightened that a change of government will be an economic experiment – it has probably also been the last four years – and that not least the Centre will help to use more oil billions than is just right. In the last four years, the centre has spent fewer billions of oil than the government. We have proposed an additional DKK 4-5 billion at each budgetary procedure. The year has passed. Then it turns out that the government has had to spend 10 billion kroner – we have had to grant 10 billion dollars because more people have been out of work, and because the social security costs have gone up, while our line would have led to the opposite. 40,000–50,000 more at work would have given 20 billion dollars in profits to society. It would have been a different account. So the government's experiment has at least had some positive effects. It has turned out that 10 billion extra kroner in addition to what has been said would be the optimal point, have not given price rise or higher interest in these years. Nothing has happened. But it has not happened that the tax havens of the rich have made progress in the form of increased value creation. Finally to Fosen Mechanical Workshops, a symbol of anti-business policy in my part of the country. The government reported the company for gross fraud. It should have been blown off early, because this was a good company where people have now settled and are running again. That capacity is needed. But this will be remembered. Those who have done the job locally deserve praise – and people know very well who deserves the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1961	It's the last day of this session, and it's probably the last day as a big crowd representative for a part of us. Well, that gives cause for concern. We're here thanks to our voters, but we should first of all be here to ensure all our fellow human beings a safe and meaningful existence. Well-being is an important concept in this context. Unfortunately, we are seeing today a development in which the more luxurious well-being seems to overshadow the vital and fundamental. This can be achieved, for example, by: estimates that there are some of the parties here that focus very heavily on taxiles and cheap steaks and spirits – they focus more on it than on ensuring, for example, health protection for all, with as much equivalent health and care provision as possible. For us in the Center Party, it's important that we have a health service that is as equivalent to everyone, no matter where they live, economy, sex, etc. That's one of the pillars we've had in the Norwegian health care system. It is also important that we maintain the values we have built up and invested in, in the Norwegian health care system. But what happens now is that people feel unsafe. The centre party is afraid of what is happening in relation to the dismantling of emergency medical preparedness and supply. We want to ensure local hospitals through a sound and adequate economy in health businesses. We want a proper accounting and depreciation system, and we want money to be added to it, while at the same time providing sufficient financial resources for the years ahead. From this point of view, we now contribute DKK 1 billion to the revised national budget for the operation of health institutions, health businesses and specialist health services. The emergency response is very dependent on good ambulance services. It is very sad and, in fact, unacceptable that the Government has had such an arrogant attitude to the 2001 imposition of a response time on ambulances. Instead, the Government returned with regulations for the ambulance service with one week’s notice. They started to apply from 1 April this year, without a response time requirement. We believe that there must be clear demands for response time in the ambulance service, based on the Committee's suspension. That's why we're proposing this -- we're adding 90 million. kr, so that upgrading and upgrading of the ambulance service can be started as early as this autumn. In some contexts it is quite frustrating to observe what priorities we make at the expense of people. It should at least be that we catered to people in terms of basic needs, so that they could feel the security and security of living in this welfare country. Now, when we break up, we may not be able to say that we've done what should be done in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1974	Steinar Bastesen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1977	I think I'll do it in 1 minute! This government does not boast much of innovative measures. We in the Coast Party support those who want to start mobile slaughterhouses, and believe that they must now have the means to implement their plans. The government must also promote the necessary changes in fees, so that all pay equally in the meat inspection fee. Geir-Ketil Hansen addressed the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre for Network Security. Good and operationally secure network and cable capacity is not only about social security but also about clear demands from business. In training, the capacity of the cable is over-exploited, and much of the power helps to warm the sea. On Røst the grid and cable capacity collapsed during the most active fishing season. It's not much better in Værøy. The population and its inhabitants are required to be treated seriously in terms of the power supply. There are questions about where to process the natural resources that come from the sea. That is why I am pleased with proposal No. 113 from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, for which the Coastal Party will of course vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e1990	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two, three, four. [[See pages 3103 and 3149]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2006	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3149]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2022	I can promise you that this will not be a long article. The 2004 Credit Communication provides a review of financial stability, regulatory development and management matters in the financial market area, the operation of the Norwegian Bank, the Credit Authority, the Swedish Social Security Fund and the International Monetary Fund in 2004. In the context of the Committee on Credit Reporting in 2004, the Governor of the Central Bank held an open hearing on Monday 23 May this year. All in all, there is a collective committee that takes the information that the Government writes in the Credit Message. The chapter on financial stability shows that there is still a strong increase in the build-up of debt in households. If developments continue, household debt taxes will pass through the level in 2005 from the end of the 1980s. The bad tracks from this period are alarming. So a group of committees say they've noticed this. In addition, they have noted that the Finanznutrijes Hauptorganisation and the Sparebank Association have encouraged their members to provide necessary and understandable information on the consequences of any future interest rate increase in the processing of loan applications. Our country is in a good economic development. In this situation, it is particularly important that banks and financial institutions manage funds and competences in a way that allows households and individuals to continue to have a good and secure economic future, even if interest rates are to rise at some point. I take it as self-evident that banks and financial institutions are conscious of this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2041	The 2001 debate on interest rate policy was necessary. It has produced results – it has produced good results. The course has been changed. In particular, employment and business have been taken into account. What industry is saying today is that a stable exchange rate is the most important framework condition for Norwegian business. That's what I think business has been saying all along, but you've learned something in the two loss wounds. In the future, I think we need to focus on getting better forecasting tools in order to control the interest rate and the exchange rate. The SSB has presented its forecast, which says something quite different from what the government presented in the revised national budget. They say we can now get an interest rate increase of 25 pst. by the Ministry of Finance. I think it's important that the predictions you're presenting – if you're going to present them first – are as correct as possible. I am afraid that the prognosis presented by the Government in the revised national budget is a prayer to speculators to concentrate on the Norwegian krona. This would be unfortunate for Norwegian business. I think you need more than the interest rate tool to secure a stable dollar price. I think that being able to assess an intervention on the sale or purchase of a crown is important. There are positive experiences with this, according to the response we received from the Bank of Norway when we asked about it, in those countries that have used it recently, in view of having a stable price of crowns. I also believe that, in the field of fiscal policy, we have recently set aside a tool that can become important in the future, namely public sector activity. If the goal is to reduce it and keep it stable, no matter how the economy is otherwise, I think we're losing a tool. Increased activity in the public sector would have provided far more jobs in a short time and a different development both in terms of prices and related issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2052	Some brief comments on the year’s credit notification, particularly related to monetary policy, which, in the SV’s opinion, are now being used with reason. Initially, in the mandate of the Bank of Norway, four issues need to be taken into account. At the beginning of this period, only inflation was emphasised. This led to a very unfortunate result in the spring of 2002, which meant that both government and magnificence had to point out that the mandate was probably wider than that of Norway’s Bank until then. After that time it's getting better. What we see, however, is the following: the exchange rate is significantly stronger against the euro than it was at the beginning of the period. We now see again that the Norwegian currency is strong in relation to competing currencies. It is unfortunate for the Norwegian export industry, although it is beneficial for Norwegian consumers who are now on their way to the South after a bad summer so far in Norway. What's important is you don't just focus on inflation. Inflation is one of four ratios. Production and employment, which are two other aspects, have now also received a separate reference, a separate heading, in the credit notification. I'm glad, because it shows that this is an important element in understanding how interest rates are to be set. The last is the exchange rate, and as I said, the exchange rate is too strong, but it can't be solved in the very short term. What is also important to mention is a matter that I raised with the Governor of the Central Bank at the open hearing, which should not be affected in any other way today than by saying that I believe it may be important to be more transparent about the setting of interest rates by the Bank of Norway. The central bank manager replied in the open hearing that it had also thought through, but they thought that there might be obvious weaknesses in this. That gets the central bank to come back to. But I ask the Minister of Finance to assess whether that is not important, when one now wants a greater degree of transparency around the basis for interest rate fixing. Although the various members of the board are not full-time employees and have this as a full-time job, I think it might be right for them to get out when they have a different view of what the central bank has. This has been practised with great success in some other countries. I also believe that the Bank of Norway as a whole will benefit from this. A last comment on the low interest rate, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur: low interest rates are largely for the benefit of countries and people, but low interest rates can also mean that many take up loans that they cannot serve, and that banks are tempted to issue larger loans than the individual are able to serve. This means that we have many debt problems in Norway that will also have increasing debt problems at the moment that interest rates will rise. And interest will rise – everyone knows – you just don't know when. As a result, banks and credit institutions have a special responsibility to be cautious about lending. In particular, this applies to all sorts of card companies and other companies, which have very high interest rates on their loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2067	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3149]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2083	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2090	The idea and proposal of the representative Steinar Bastisen to build an investment fund of unexpected oil revenues and parts of the annual car charges in order to obtain better and safer roads without the use of tolls has been addressed by the Financial Committee. As rapporteur, I would like to say that the issues concerned would have served the promotion of the proposal at an earlier and less hectic time. The scant rejection of the majority of the committee, the government parties and the Labour Party, I believe, can be explained by this fact. At another time, the will would be greater to discuss thoroughly whether we can and should use the country's capital strength to, among other things. improving the country's infrastructure faster than we do now. Very many people are concerned about this theme when someone known is hit by a traffic accident that could have been prevented by mid-parts, and when such accidents only repeat for seven years researchers say that society's annual accident costs are DKK 25 billion, and that hospitals would have a good place if the accident rate was half-time when car queues or ferry queues daily delay us when the county road is closed in the spring solution and the ambulance does not come when more and more school children are driven because walking and cycling roads are only stretched on a paper, and the media tells of the physical decay of the child year bill from the bomb company is paid, and we know that a third party only goes to the collection when the deadly race isolates small communities for days Very many questions in such situations about governance have considered well enough whether more of the oil money can be used to make roads better and safer and to provide some of the long-term plans. They ask whether passive investment abroad is less profitable than removing bottlenecks for business and contributing to a more environmentally and health-friendly everyday life for most people. The answer I think is given: it is more profitable to invest in safer and better roads and several times and bike paths. Calculations from the SINTEF and the Transport Economic Institute showing this are presented in public documents, including: in the Public Health Communication. The risk of investing in infrastructure is lower than today. Savings and revenues are safer than at the current location of oil wealth, but unfortunately they come a long way in the future – unfortunately. The centre party believes that we need to be willing to accelerate transport investment, and that in budgetary work we need to learn to distinguish between ordinary consumption and long-term investment that pays off over time. We are open to considering setting up funds, as has been done for research, where it now stands at NOK 35 billion, and as we believe it can be done for business and district development to a greater extent than now. But the main thing is that we need to be more willing to include long-term gains and reduced loss items, when prioritising money consumption. It is very good that so many agree that prevention is better than repair, and that quick repair is better than waiting. Such agreement is a good start, but then action is needed. Consider whether the number of road accidents could be halved, the number of drug addicts and criminals equivalent. Then there was an empty space in the hospitals and in the prisons. Then it was better able to help the seriously ill and to care for the elderly. We have knowledge of how to achieve such results. We have the capital strength. We just have to decide to bet enough and long-term enough. We must reduce the one-year focus of economic policy. Fewer accidents, patients and clients provide more fresh work hands. Such results facilitate the pressure of the economy and do not create harmful inflation. A broken rejection of such ideas, bearing in mind that the rule of action must be respected, makes more and more people ask about how those who walked in front of us in much poorer times, were able to build the roads, churches and schools that we can't afford now. I would like to express a hope that some of the intentions in the proposal and in what I have now said will be followed up, so that the Storting will have a good basis for a thorough discussion of the possibilities that our capital strength and knowledge give us. The rule of action does not prohibit Stortinget from thinking new thoughts, nor from thinking in the long term. On the contrary, the rule of action is there for us to think a lot about next generation. I would like to mention the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2138	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2141	I just want to briefly explain why the government parties and the Workers' Party do not think it is a good idea, the proposal made by the Bastisen, namely that it should be set at NOK 30 billion from the oil fund now and then annually all taxes and charges from car use to a fund's ongoing coverage of expenditure on adopted transport projects. There are regular proposals to set up their own funds to ensure that what the proposers think is a good thing. It doesn't get any better for that reason, so far. So the majority do not support this, and we are proposing to reject it, firstly because the proposal violates the rule of action and allows for greater use of oil revenue than the budgetary guidelines provide. Secondly, we believe that it is an unfortunate designation of the means of transport that impedes the overall and holistic prioritisation of money for all the tasks of the state. Thirdly, the principles of government budgetary management, both in terms of the principle of completeness, violate the intentions behind the cash principle and the intentions behind the one-year principle, implying that the budgetary decisions are valid for one year at a time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2148	The Progress Party agrees with the proposer that the funds included in car-related charges are not in any way proportionate to those used in road construction and road maintenance. We also believe that with the low road standard we have in Norway, investment in infrastructure will provide a very good return, much better than investment in foreign shares and bonds, not only in crowns and ears, but also in saved human lives and human suffering. An example of this is the new E18 through North Westfold, how many lives are saved and estimates show that saved accident costs over a decade will cover the cost of the road. For this reason, in the context of the examination of the national transport plan, the Progress Party has proposed an increase in road appropriations of DKK 75 billion in addition to the government’s proposal of DKK 122.5 billion during the period. We cannot support the proposal that 100 pst. taxes paid shall be transferred directly to such a fund, inter alia. because this would mean that VAT would also be transferred to the fund. The VAT is a charge levied on all sales to the end-user and which should be a fiscal charge. In addition, the Progress Party believes that a reduction in car-related charges is necessary to achieve the objective of a newer, safer and more environmentally friendly car park. I would also like to point out that, in the context of the revised budget, the Progress Party has put forward proposals for a reduction in fuel taxes and has proposed a system that provides stable prices regardless of crude oil prices. The Progress Party is not opposed to the establishment of a fund for the ongoing coverage of expenditure on adopted transport projects, but we believe it should be better investigated. In the past, the Progress Party has called for a longer-term budgeting, which will allow the creation of a fund. We have therefore included a proposal on this in the vote, which I would like to mention in this connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2159	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7 [[See page 3150]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2177	Document No 8:90 for 2004–2005 is designed to simplify both costing and accounting for R & D activities and also to contribute to the ambition of an overall political environment, not least the Government’s ambition — to make Norway one of the world’s most innovative countries. I have no problem seeing that it may be difficult to draw a limit between when to direct expenditure and when to activate, and that in some cases this may be problematic. But I believe that in the cases that we are talking about here, where costs should be activated and cannot be directly spent, it should be put up to a very modest practice. It's not about tax exemptions. It's not about tax havens. It's a short question of the timing of taxation. However, for the enterprises concerned, this has a high liquidity importance and can also have a high tax significance in relation to the tax cost and the time at which it comes. I am pleased that to this extent there is an overall committee asking for a critical review of the practice of this. But I have problems understanding that there could not already be a majority in the Committee to decide that these costs should be borne when they are incurred, and not when the actual research activity has become a reality or a lasting means of operating. I'm going to be short, but in the end I just want to be allowed to deal with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2188	The President should have suggested that speaking time was limited to 5 minutes for each group. I let that go to Odd Roger Enoksen, but the President will have to take up that proposal now to protect himself. – The proposal is considered to be bilingual.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2193	The Committee agrees that strengthening research and development is of major importance for innovation and further development in business and thus for the creation of new jobs in the future. The Committee also refers to the TAX FUNN scheme established to stimulate research and development through the tax system. This mechanism has proved unbureaucratic and effective for business and seems to act as a good instrument in stimulating research. The proposal in this case is intended to enable taxable persons to carry out the continuous tax deduction of all R & D expenditure. However, the starting point of tax law is that permanent and significant operating assets are to be activated. Tax non-discrimination both in relation to the purchase of intangible operating assets and in relation to the own construction of durable physical resources also promotes the activation of the own development of durable intangible operating assets. The Ministry of Finance has made an interpretation of the Tax Act in this field by letter of 30 May to the Tax Directorate. The letter shows that the obligation to activate R & D results as operating resources is rather narrow and that access to deduction will be wide. This is, therefore, a delimitation of the right to deduct, as to whether the R & D activity is linked to concrete projects that can become or have become permanent resources. In this context, it should also be noted that the Ministry of Finance, in a letter to the Financial Committee on 31 May, states that the Ministry will follow its practice closely to ensure that the practice complies with the applicable law. The tax framework conditions related to research and development activities are important for innovation and value creation in Norway. In view of this, the Government parties have submitted a proposal to provide an assessment of the tax law § 14-4 in the context of the 2006 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2206	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3150]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2224	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3150]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2242	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3150]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2262	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3151]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2280	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3151]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2288	Then we are ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2369	Siv Jensen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2372	It concerns proposal No. 113, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, which we have been called upon to support. We do not, and the reason for that is simply that we have completely different assumptions and assumptions in the vote than the rapporteurs have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2377	During the debate, 113 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 5-10, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 11, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 12 and 13, by Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 14, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 15, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party proposals No. 16-18, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and Coastal Party proposal No. 19 from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party proposals No. 20-24, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 25-28, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 29 and 30, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party proposals No. 31-36, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 37-46, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 47, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the No. 48 to 60, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure and Petitions 61, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 62-88, by Mr Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party, 89 to 100, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 101 to 107, by Mr Lund, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 108-110 and 112, by Steinar Bastesen, on behalf of the Committee on the Coastal Party, 111, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Financial Committee, 113, from Geir-Ketil Hansen on behalf of theWorkers 'Party , the Socialist Left Party and the CentreParty Proposals Nos. 1 to 110 is included in the vote, while proposals Nos. 111-113 is distributed in the hall. Then we start voting on the minority proposals, and it is first voted on the proposals. 108 to 110 and 112, from the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e2703	The proposals are then put to the vote. 101 to 107, from the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e3382	The proposals are then put to the vote. 89-100, from the Central Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e4507	The proposals are then put to the vote. 62–88, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e6266	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 61, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to explain the exercise of the active ownership of the petroleum fund on the basis of the principles of ethics and sustainability, at the latest in the 2006 budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e6281	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 48 to 60, from the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e6734	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 47, from the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2005 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape VerdePostDestinationCrones630Aetat [[(see section 4.4). cap. 410)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e6889	The proposals are then put to the vote. 37 to 46, from the Party of Advancement and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e7359	The proposals are then put to the vote. 31–36, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e7452	The proposals are then put to the vote. 29 and 30, from the Advance Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e7520	The proposals are then put to the vote. 25–28, from the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e7618	The proposals are then put to the vote. 20-24, from the Party of Advances, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e7667	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 19, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2005 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape TownDestinationsChrones229Other measures70Additional security training for fishermen, increased by 4 000 000 from NOK 6 988 000 to NOK 10 988 000274State universities50State grants, increased by 10 000 000 from NOK 7 393 053 000 to NOK 7 403 053 000440Directorate of police and officers' councils Value creation programme for fish, granted by 5 000 0002421Innovation Norway [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5325 and 5625)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e8160	The proposals are then put to the vote. 16–18, from the Workers' Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e8259	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2005 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCrones 950Administration of State ownershipArgentum, granted by 550 000 0001320 state road services [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4429)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e8363	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2005 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cap.PostFormålKroner 261University of Bergen50State grants, increased by 5 000 000 from NOK 1 880 541000 to NOK 1 885 541 000 908 Ship registers [[(see section 4.4). cap. (Parliament adopted ……]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e8495	The proposals are then put to the vote. 12 and 13, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e8657	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘From 1 July 2005 the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 25 November 2004 on the levying of hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons for the 2005 budgetary mine shall be amended as follows: [[HFC]] [[PFC]] Paragraph 3(i) is replaced by the following: i. Covered by an agreement approved by the Ministry on emission reduction measures. Such agreement shall only cover the HFC product-type.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e8678	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5-10, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e8827	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e8909	There remains one minority proposal, proposal No. 113, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that, from 2006 onwards, installation contributions can be made for the transfer of electricity to areas where an increase in network/cable capacity is a prerequisite for the expansion/establishment of industry/enterprises in smaller communities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e8924	We shall now vote on the motion for a resolution. In the subsequent vote, the parties, in line with what has been practice for a longer time in the treatment of the revised national budget, are prepared to abstain from the vote they would normally take, in order to avoid a very time-consuming and, in part, complicated voting where the result is given. The President shall give tribute to the members of the financial committee of the various parties for this vote. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against any party on a later occasion. Before we vote on the motion for a resolution, the President will refer to proposal No. 111, from the Financial Committee. The reasons for this proposal are the necessary adjustments resulting from decisions taken yesterday evening by the Storting concerning the current budget and which are naturally not taken into account in the relevant chapters and items of the present draft decision. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post PurposeCroner2543Contributions for vocational training70Contributions, estimate appropriations, increased by 425 000 000 from DKK 10 554 000 to DKK 10 979 000 0002652Medical rehabilitation, etc.:70Rehabilitation grants, estimate appropriations, reduced by 970 000 000 from DKK 8 562 000 000 to DKK 7 592 000 000 2655Facilities:70Grunn pension, estimate appropriations, reduced by 400 000 from DKK 17 177 000 to DKK 16 777 000 0002655Facilities:71Additional pension, estimate appropriations, reduced by 310 000 000 from DKK 25 071 000 000 to NOK 24 761 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e9057	The President noted that the chapters and items adopted in proposal No. 111, the proposal for a decision is now obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17320	Here the President expects the Right, the Socialist Left, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17364	Here the President expects the Right, the Socialist Left, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17445	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government of the draft State Budget 2006 to investigate the establishment of a fund that may be used to cover on an ongoing basis adopted road projects.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17469	It will then be replaced by an alternative between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party reads: ‘Document No. 8:86 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17480	The President understands it so that the Advance Party will now support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17493	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17500	Then the result is 90 votes for the vote and 9 votes for the proposal. Thus the setting has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17508	During the debate, Odd Roger Enoksen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the State budget for 2006 to submit proposals to amend paragraphs 14-4 of the Tax Act so that taxpayers can make expenditure on R & D expenditure in the year in which they are incurred.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17534	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the interest calculation based on the Tax Payments Act § 11-1 and § 11-2 should be omitted if the late collection or payment is due to conditions for which the tax and Fee Authorities are closest to the responsibility. The size calls for such an assessment to be submitted to the Stortinget by the end of 2005.’» The President expects the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17556	There is a vote on the proposal by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Coastal Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 14 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a detailed investigation with a view to implementing excise duty on individuals’ undertakings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17575	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Morten Lund on behalf of the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 14 June 2005: «The government is asked to submit proposals for a reserve provision scheme within the corporate model that allows for up to 10 years of suspension of taxation and the balancing of income taxes.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17581	The Progress Party will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17601	There is a vote on the proposal of the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the context of the 2006 budget, to propose transitional rules which take into account that the annual tax burden on the rigging companies is not excessive and that equity is not unduly charged in the transitional years.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17621	There is no record. Now we're going to end the 149th grand total, the fourth and the last in the current parliamentary term. During this year the Stortinget has had 99 meetings, while there have been 43 meetings in Odelstinget and 13 in Lagtinget. There have been 14 evening meetings in Stortinget and 13 in Odelstinget. You've been meeting in addition to the regular time, at 5:00 a.m. 22 o'clock, and two of them have gone out at 2 o'clock. 24, both in Stortinget. It should therefore finally be stated that the annual comments and critical comments that the Storting in parts of the year is doing hectic and irresponsible treatment in night meetings, at least this year has nothing to do with it. The President will state that this makes it visible that active work on the Rules of Procedure Committee, in cooperation with the Committees, can produce results in relation to a reasonable distribution of work beyond spring. The government has promoted 217 cases for Stortinget, broken down by 74 staging proposals, 103 staging proposals and 40 staging messages. The representatives of Storting have tabled 103 Documents Nos. Eight proposals. If we sum these and grossing-up propositions and ousting propositions from the Government, Document No. The 8-proposals are approx. one third of the proposals put forward by the Stortinget. The Committees’ contribution to what has been dealt with in the Storting and the departments is 281 posts for Stortinget and 131 for Odelstinget. In addition, of course, there are different budgetary positions. The government has contributed to the debates in Stortinget with ten presentations, including the census. After this collapse, there is one staging proposition, three staging messages, six staging propositions and 18 Document No. Eight motions for resolutions and document Nos. 19 for 2003-2004, on the national law regime, and 21 constitutional proposals. It clarifies a hard-working bulking that is concerned about finishing the case. Of the matters that have been dealt with by this big business, I shall mention a few: the pension reform, one of the major issues in this period of flood disaster compensation schemes for groups that have suffered unjustly in our social and important legislative changes and new laws, including: the law on disputes, the law on space listening and the use of coercive measures, the law on legal proceedings, the Finnish law on Finland, the criminal law and the law on working conditions, to mention some of the laws to which there has been the greatest attention; In different contexts, the size has also given some attention to the defence economy, and has also addressed issues relating to: marine industrial developmentnew labour and welfare management opportunities and challenges in the north Of matters of particular importance to the work of the Storting, the new structure adopted by the Storting Committees should be mentioned. In this context, there is also reason to mention that earlier in the period, we have dealt with a matter of great importance for the relationship between magnification and government, namely the Frøiland Committee's position on the control activities of the Storting. And finally, we've dealt with the big power investigation. Now the President, on behalf of all the representatives of the Magnificent, would like to thank all the employees of the Stortinget and of the party groups for a great deal of effort throughout this period. Furthermore, the President, on behalf of the Presidency, would like to thank all the great representatives, and also the Government, for the work they have done. And then we rise above the party political priorities and allow ourselves to believe that we're working, and we're working well. The President will also give personal thanks to all the co-representatives for the necessary perseverance and willingness to cooperate. You have shown that both as members of different committees and as individual representatives of the Stortinget, we have conducted the Stortingen negotiations with the dignity necessary. Then the meeting is coming to an end. Following the termination of this meeting, representatives are invited to sign the minutes of the Storting and its departments. The storage protocol is published in the Storage Room, while the Protocols for Stortinget and Odelstinget can be signed here. But before we can do that, we're going to have a meeting. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17680	As the representative who has the longest seniority, I would like to thank the Presidency, and especially the prime minister, Kosmo, for excellent work during this four-year period. I had the floor in connection with the election of the Grand President. Had it happened a little differently, there would probably have been some changes in the political situation now. But I would like to say that Grandfather Kosmo has done an excellent job. There was one thing the president forgot in his summary. I would also like to stress that, thanks to the President's initiative, a separate selection, the National Court Committee, has succeeded in reaching a significant change in our constitution, which there is a good hope that will be adopted in the next major period. I would also like to commend the Presidency and the President of the excellent implementation where the Storting was engaged in the 100th anniversary campaign. I will therefore only be allowed to say a thousand thanks for good efforts in these four years, and wish happiness with the efforts of Telemark as the county. [[Acclamation in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-17.ana.ud1469e17695	The President says thank you on behalf of the Presidency and himself. Then the President will declare the negotiations in the 149th grand finale.
