ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e65	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortings' remaining meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engretsen, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected presidents of the remaining meetings this week. The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e72	On behalf of Ursula Evje and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to launch immediate action to remove 65-70 tonnes of mercury on board the submarine U-864 outside Fedje in Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e77	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e91	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e102	The size is at the head of a four-year period, and over the period has dealt with many issues that are important for cultural life. In addition to the great and unquestionably important cultural message, it is perhaps just the message of culture and industry that says the most about the parties' overall view of culture. The very importance of the message makes me proud to be the case rapporteur, and I hope that the work of the Government and the Grand Duchy in this matter can be continued forward, so that the most people can get the most, and the best possible culture, and the country can get a living, forward-looking business based on our culture. Let me first be allowed to praise the Government for a thorough and good message. It is the first time that a separate communication is produced, in which culture and industry are seen in the context. It is undoubtedly positive that the government has described the field as thoroughly as it has been done. The Communication provides a good basis for understanding in order to build on actions and framework conditions for cultural industries. The Government presents trends, framework conditions and challenges for cultural industrial development. Furthermore, the notification goes further into some cultural industries before considering the interaction between culture and industry. Only to a small extent does the Government follow up that the Storting pointed to the importance of looking at several alternative forms of funding in the further development of cultural policy and that private and public capital should be able to find a fruitful interaction. Thus, the notification is only a description of the current situation. It does not discuss measures or any changes to the framework conditions. So it's up to us here in Stortinget to set the agenda for cultural industry policy ahead. We can best do that by discussing possible measures. The discussion of the Communication by the Culture Committee has shown, and today's debate will certainly also show, that there are clear lines of distinction between the parties' views on the cultural industries. At the same time, these divisions are not worse than the fact that the various parties in the practical policy can find solutions together. The Progress Party considers that it is not appropriate to distinguish cultural policy from industrial policy. We are of the opinion that cultural policy should be structured in such a way that cultural activities are more widely perceived and treated as cultural enterprises. In this way, the potential of the sector can be identified, both in terms of cultural policy objectives and value creation. There is no intrinsic contradiction between cultural and industrial policy objectives. These actually draw in the same direction. Culture and value-creating activities both contribute to the diversity and benefit of society. Drawing a distinction between cultural and industrial policy becomes artificial, and in many ways is a gust from a past where an enlightened elite would teach the people good culture. This is an attitude we have to get away from. People have to decide for themselves what kind, and how much, culture they want. In its examination of the Communication, the Culture Committee held open hearings involving 25 organisations. To the Committee's great pleasure, many cultural organisations were present, but there might have been greater interest and commitment on the part of industry. The size has previously addressed the film message and has asked the Government to provide, together with the Culture and Business Communication, a review of various measures that may help to increase the production of foreign films in Norway. The film industry, compared with other cultural industries, is ‘a step forward’ because of the fact that instruments and measures are outlined in the film communication. Therefore, it is quite natural that the majority of the population now decides to introduce their own reimbursement schemes. These are schemes that will have a positive effect proceeds as they will attract foreign cinematographic activities to the country. The Minister of Culture should see this as a positive thing. The majority expect her to settle down to convince her colleague the Minister of Finance of the same thing, as Stortinget is already convinced. The majority of the population acknowledges the great value it has for culture and business to have arenas where they can meet. It is often through meetings that good ideas about cooperation and new cultural development are being explored. Such ideas are left to practical cooperation and positive experiences. Such ideas give more culture to people the most and provide economic development to the delight of workers and finance ministers. A majority here at Stortinget sees that the public can organize such meeting venues. Organisations such as: The Culture and Business Forum makes a good effort as a meeting place. They are reasonable investments for the development of cultural industries. This should be further developed. Some have suggested that the Stortinget should already decide where to locate a pop and rock archive and a pop and rock experience centre. Here I have to make it clear that the most neat thing is that the process is going at the normal pace. No one has been served to make the location decision a surrender and a campaign case. Most people here probably agree that it would be pure populism. Let me make it clear that the bulk of the population has previously expressed their support for the so-called "Trunde Layer" option, while also taking into account the investigation from ABM development. This investigation is now being consulted. The Government shall then, during the autumn, present a major report, with its recommendations. To a great deal of joy for the popular culture industry, a majority of the Stortinget have gathered to abolish the so-called dance room. This should not be confused with the Bamsemums, which, with the alternative budget of the Advance Party, would have been cheaper, since we propose to abolish the sugar levy and lower the chocolate levy. [[muttering in the hall]] That's what they say. But back to the dance room. So far, concerts with live music have been exempt from VAT, unless the audience dances. What the explanation of this might be, I don't know. How the Ministry of Finance's VAT keepers can think that the cultural experience of living music will be reduced if you take a swing at the same time, I don't know either. What I know, on the other hand, is that living music combined with dance is good, popular culture. I am pleased that we are abolishing unfair discrimination against the culture of the people. When we talk about culture, I think it is important to mention another part of the culture that is very important, and that is also one of the cultural carriers in Norway, namely craftsmanship and housework. There are many small individual enterprises – call them that – around the whole country where you run on a small scale. To a large extent, this applies to women-driven enterprises, which, with some help, can in fact quickly become an important district job, without the need to collect money. It is often the case that women – as in this case – see the value of what they are doing and that the market is made familiar with the product. We have examples that small activities, almost hobby activities, have become corner stone companies, with exports both to Europe and to the United States. But skills are needed to achieve this. One of the centres that actually have this, and which the Committee specifically mentions – as one of the few mentions specifically – is Birka. You can read more about Birka in our comments. Just so it is said: I see that the Labour Party has put forward a proposal to return to Birka in the budget for 2006. This will be supported by the Progress Party. This is very important, both to keep alive in craftsmanship and in housework that will otherwise die out, and also to maintain and disseminate the Norwegian cultural heritage to new generations. Since the Government's message is essentially a descriptive message, as I have already explained, it is now up to the Government to set the agenda for culture policy ahead. In its position, the Culture Committee has mentioned a number of actions that will strengthen the cultural industries. Only the Progress Party has been willing to enter into a fundamental discussion on requirements for any action. We have dared to draw up a list of four requirements for such measures. These are requirements that, if they are followed, will provide: good culture in line with people’s desirable economic development’money currency’ It is with some disappointment that the majority of Storting has not dared to discuss these demands for action. I could have framed a number of individual measures. The Committee could have sent home a number of Christmas cards or summer cards, but it has not chosen to do so, precisely because there are numerous great measures out there. When no one is mentioned, no one is forgotten either. However, only the Progress Party has been willing to draw up a list of possible actions. We have drawn up the list on the basis of the already discussed requirements for such measures. Possible measures include: tax incentives to attract foreign culturalactivities to the country, as the majority advocated in the treatment of film notification tax incentives/reductions for investment in new Norwegian art and culture-simplified tax rules for workers, sole proprietorships and activities in the cultural industries better cooperation between the Agency under the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the requirement for external production from the NRC to make all or part of the public support depending on the public accession development of commercial competence for culture-industry tax deductions for uplifting/maintenance of private culture memories, which will in turn act as the ‘fourth tower’ for tourism and cultural life; It is with pleasure that we see that several of these proposals actually get the support of the majority. It is sad that not the same parties dare to deal with a culturally friendly, culturally strengthening and, not least, forward-looking cultural and industrial policy. Can we imagine that it is an unwillingness to take seriously the cultural policy of the Advancement Party? I leave the timely question hanging. Then those who like to keep artificial distance in politics can get to feel hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e182	Richard Florida has written a book called The Rise of the Creative Class. In the book, he describes a society that evolves from a traditional industrial community and from an information society to a society where it is the creative abilities, the creative opportunities, that shape society more and more. This is what we see in traditional industrial areas, where things like design, design and the history of the product become more important and important. But we also see it by the fact that experiences, artistic impressions, leisure and travel are becoming more and more important in people's lives as the fundamental material needs are met. It offers new opportunities, new openings, for traditional cultural policy. It can give artists and cultural workers more legs to stand on, give them opportunities to live off their work. An active art and cultural policy will always need a heavy public effort. It is not, as the Progress Party seems to believe, an area where market forces can take over and provide the right results. We need to have a combination of a strong public sector, good public jobs in the arts and culture and good public support schemes, while at the same time enabling artists to live to their own work as far as possible. There might be some contradictions here. If you look at all art and culture as useful and necessary if it's commercially profitable, but useless and unnecessary if it's commercially unprofitable, we're on wild roads. The policy in Norway has been largely concerned with public schemes. It has been an important policy, and it has been a right policy. Very many art areas are not sustainable in purely market economy thinking. In a society with a government where market forces are given greater and greater space, it is important to remember that. That doesn't mean we're not going to be part of and take advantage of the opportunities that actually exist for the private development of cultural life. We know that many artists are freelancers. They live by selling their products directly to a market. They're trying to form their own businesses. They're trying to develop their own industries. Here we should set up and contribute in the same way as we do with all the other industries. The research work carried out in Eastern Europe shows that the creative professions, which they define as the professions concerned with communication, have a very large scale in Norway. In fact, there are more employees in this business than there are in, for example: the whole forestry and agricultural sector together. It tells us that there are already a lot of people living in these professions. In addition, we know that many of these industries are located in the borderland of art, and perhaps in part a piece of art away. The media are counted, among others: With them, and not every cover in the VG, and in the Dagblade, which appeareth to be a work of art. The advertising industry is also included in these communicative industries, and it is not all that has a high-cultural purpose either. But it's all about the same thing, using a creative potential, using your creative abilities. The interesting thing is that it's actually the traditional art, the narrower definition of art and the area that it's about, that grows faster. I think that's exciting. It says that the traditional artistic expressions also have a great potential within this with culture as an industry. Our task will then be as follows: firstly, we need to ensure that the traditional business systems, such as Innovation Norway, Municipal Enterprise Fund, etc., underpin and underpin and have knowledge of the cultural industries in the same way as for other industries. Here I think it's still a great job to do. I think it's partly a sceptical argument that this could be a job, that this could be a production path. There may also be ignorance and lack of knowledge that makes it harder for artists and cultural workers to get the necessary support crowns into a start-up phase than you might have in many other industries. Here we have a job to do, among other things. in Innovation Norway, but also in individual municipalities, to make them see the great potential. Then we have to get rid of the paralytic, obscene, business-neutral policy that is the overall mantra of the current government. In principle, it is believed that it is tax relief and framework conditions that should be the industrial policy instrument. Good framework conditions are important, but one must also have an idea of what we are going to live on in this country. These are traditional industries — fisheries, energy-based production, ICT and nanotechnologies. There are many areas where we should have systematic research efforts. We also have to be brave enough to say that culture-based business is an area where we really want to bet. There will not be a large and extensive investment in the cultural industry of tax laws alone. There must be completely different measures to achieve this. Then you have to go into the special art areas that can have a potential for growth. Film and music are perhaps the two areas that clearly have a great untapped potential. If we compare ourselves with our neighboring countries in terms of what we've got, we'll see that we're well behind. We would have had great opportunities if we had done what the Swedes and Danes have done, to build up a film industry where Norwegian audiences are watching Norwegian films, and where foreign audiences are also much more demanding Norwegian films. It is about increasing production aid, which has been the cut-off post of the Council of State throughout this four-year period. I think it's now five times that this collapse in different contexts has gone in for cutbacks in the production support of the Film Fund. There's no way to go to build a viable film industry. But it is also a matter of attracting foreign film productions, by providing, as the majority of the population now stands, an aid scheme, a reimbursement scheme, for foreign film productions in Norway. We may be able to be the venue for future "Ringenes Herre" films, or too large productions from Bollywood, with the marketing of Norway, and perhaps also have tourism developed around it. Music is an area where we obviously have a lot to do. Once again we can learn from our neighboring country Sweden. It was violent to boast of Sweden the day after the 7th of June, perhaps the Union resolution was not a good idea anyway. Music Export Sweden is doing a fantastic job of marketing Swedish music internationally. We should do the same to a much greater extent, and we need to coordinate our efforts instead of spreading them across many departments. In Sweden, everything has been gathered under the Minister of Industry, although the U.D. has retained responsibility for working out the embassies. I think it might be the way to go in Norway too. Literature: Norwegian authors do success abroad, but they need support. NORLA should be strengthened. In addition, purchasing schemes should also ensure that Norwegian books are sent out to foreign institutions teaching in Norwegian. I find it strange that the government parties do not agree with the proposal that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are in favour of the vote. In addition, the traditional schemes of scholarships, scholarships, guarantee receipts, etc. a foundation for the development of these ones in a commercial context and for filling this space for culture and industry. Design will also be a very important area to bet on. Industrial products need creative input into how to design their products. We know that this is very important for sales, and here we think that an interaction between artists and industry can have a lot to do. We have also gone into the notification and mentioned craftsmanship and the possibility of the traditional forms of art in Norway being a nutritional potential. We need to build skills. That is why we are also promoting a proposal for such a centre in Rennebu, Birka, which can be in support of those who want to develop industries within their territory. From the Workers' Party, the SVs and the Center Party, we presented a big cultural promise a year ago, where we say we want to use 1 pst. of the national budget for culture. It's an important lift. We hope that we will have the opportunity to implement this, but we also hope to implement an offensive business strategy that is about artists being able to cope on their own, of course with good public framework conditions, and developing their industries. There's a lot of demand for this in society, and we have a lot of skilled artists and cultural workers who can meet that need. I am addressing the proposals where the Workers' Party is the proposer or the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e218	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e221	The strong focus currently on the relationship between culture and business is a product of our time. The Western welfare community, in the face of a tearing technological development, is creating the need for greater activity in the cultural sector and is proving to strengthen the demand for cultural products throughout the spectrum. However, the need for greater creativity is not limited only to the products of the central cultural area. The pursuit of the good idea applies to almost all areas. Our modern society is about a continuous requirement for innovation and conversion in all sectors and productions. The contribution of art and culture is also important in this context. Creative competence, competence in terms of driving creative processes, are precisely the art arena. Systematic work, where playfulness and irrational thinking are natural ingredients, is often important and necessary to raise the unfamiliar and original. Tomorrow's creative societies cannot be based solely on research and education, as we often get the impression. It must also be based on art and the knowledge and methods of cultural life. The failure message presented is a very good analysis of what is happening in this field. The government has done an important job and laid a solid foundation for further political work. However, the cancellation message also shows that this is a very complex field that it is not possible to treat as a whole without delay. A large part of cultural life is now part of economic life. The book industry, parts of popular music and, of course, the entire media area are good examples of that. Other areas, such as parts of contemporary art, live significantly independently of, or at least in modest contact with, industry. These extremes, of course, indicate a completely different need for policies and instruments. The right has always thought that it is right and desirable that cultural life has a good market surface. The audience is an important corrective, and there may be good incentives in the correspondence between art and society. But the Right has never claimed that the market is sufficient for the art and culture our society needs. The need for diversity and quality implies a strong public commitment, regardless of market signals. Now that we are discussing the relationship between culture and industry, it is important to stress that we are distinguishing here between cultural policy, which we often have on the agenda in other contexts, and enterprise policy, where we also need to address the requirements of profitability, issues of competition and so on. From the Right's point of view, that's the last thing we're discussing in this concrete context. Of course, it is also the case that the culturally motivated public contributions made over the years, for example through the Norwegian Cultural Council, also mean significant value creation. But we do not have to come to the conclusion that these resources should be managed on the basis of, for example, the employment effect or profitability. Increased investment in culture and industry will, in our view, not mean much to the extent of public investment in culture. Here the Right also distinguishes layers with the Advance Party, which clearly assumes that greater commercial production reduces the need for public intervention in the cultural sector. On the right, growth in most sectors has to come from below. Concrete, felt the need or prospects to start profitable business in enterprises or with the individual entrepreneur are the driving force for building new, solid business. This is also true in the cultural industries. Here, too, developments must come because businesses and individuals see the economic potential of cultural life. This is a cooperation that needs to be developed in mutual respect and understanding. In the practical work on culture-based business, experience is rapidly gained as to how important it is to have some common arenas where projects can be developed and knowledge exchanged. In many cities and municipalities, we now see an impressive effort to create business clusters based on creative industries – in Vadsø, Fredrikstad, Lillehammer, Kristiansand, Stavanger and Bergen, to name a few. These municipalities actively use art and culture to speed up the development of their territory. It's quite interesting to see how Stavanger systematically rates culture in his work of bringing the city forward, from the oil age and over to becoming a dynamic modern region centre after more European thinking. In the further work on this field, it must be an important task to build on these local and regional initiatives. SIVA is doing an important job here. In particular, there is reason to further develop networking between these sites, with a view to the exchange of assignments and the exploitation of the creative resources available in total. Many of these environments are small, and a good network will be able to make the business more robust. Incubator activities are also important here. Birth support is often necessary for small enterprises, and the government’s efforts in this area, for example in the field of the Center of Expertise, can be a good contribution to this development. However, we see that the businesses involved in these industries are often small and have limited sustainability. If we are to speed up the field of culture and industry in our country, it is also important that the large and powerful companies come along. This requires a national intervention targeting just this type of enterprise. In countries such as England, Germany and Denmark, this has been systematically worked on for a long time. The gigantic British Millennium bet was precisely justified by the British Government's expressed wish that England would become a major power within the creative industries of the new century. The United Kingdom and Germany have taken the initiative to set up their own organisations to develop the field. The English organisation Arts & Business, which works from a number of different types of cooperation projects where art and culture are brought into businesses, is best known. Norway also needs such a cultural and business organisation. It is important that such an organisation develops in a way that creates strong ownership of businesses. In this context, the right has pointed to the Forum for Culture & Business, which through its member companies has a suitable starting point for new skills-driven activities. In particular, this will be a suitable place to develop an international contact surface. Norway is a small country, with a small market. We should therefore build good international relations, not least to strengthen our creative environments on the production side, but perhaps also, equally important, to increase our markets through exports. Here we have good competence to build on, among other things. through NORLA, Music Information Centre and Music Export Norway. Norway is well placed to take part in the growth that culture-based economic development can bring. However, the bottom plan for this sector is the same as for all other economic sectors. Here I must address the representative Giske, who believes that business-neutral policy is a problem. Indeed, it is a healthy industrial policy that provides a basis for growth in the markets, competitiveness towards the rest of the world and a good framework for businesses. That doesn't mean you're not going to have any direct tailor-made tools. Of course, I fully agree with the representative, Mrs Giske, that the arrangements you have, for example. in Innovation Norway, Municipal Enterprise Fund, SND — the whole breadth of the instrument — of course must also apply to cultural life. I also agree that there is enough need for some pedagogical exercises to get this done. It is important that we get the understanding and knowledge that cultural-based economic development actually means a boost to the whole of industrial development in Norway. This does not only have to do with the bottom line of the individual project. It also has something to do with what I initially had to do with the fact that tomorrow's industry needs a climate in which creativity, creativity and originality are rewarded. I would also like to comment on the initiative of the Progress Party in relation to craftsmanship and the proposals of the Workers' Party and the SV regarding Birka. We also believe that it is important to address this. It is important to see the relationship between the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Education and Research. The main problem of this sector may be that it falls between several of these departments. But if we were to bet on something first, I would say that Norwegian Crafts Development, which is the national agency to take care of the small and exposed businesses, should be at least as relevant as for example. Birka.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e255	In the SV, we welcome the communication on culture and nutrition, although it is possible to raise objections that the communication itself is of a descriptive nature and that it is relatively thin in terms of action and action. These are the views I share. I still want to add that the description is good, and that in itself it is good that we finally get an estimate to see these problems in a larger context. I have seen that some politicians use culture and industry almost as a mantra that is suitable for solving most of the issues, whether they are new jobs or more money for culture. I hope and believe that the message and the debate themselves are part of giving this debate a greater perspective and more content. Some of the most important awareness emerging is the understanding of the importance — and hence the great potential — of culture in the context of nutrition. Figures from 2002 show that the cultural industries employed about 75 000 people in this country. They represented a value added of approx. DKK 34 billion. This makes cultural industries twice the size of agriculture and forestry, and three times the size of fishing. The cultural industries are almost as large as the workshop industry. Growth in the last few years has been stable in all cultural industries. However, it is worth noting that performers increased the value creation from DKK 1.8 billion to DKK 3.2 billion between 2001 and 2003, and there is reason to believe that this growth continues. I would like to admit that I myself, who has been doing my own business aimed at cultural life for 25 years, was surprised when these figures became known. It is just to say that cultural life itself is a business giant and should be treated as such. It suggests that cultural enterprises must also have access to the same money as other enterprises. One of the problems in this context is that cultural industries are often small projects — one–two people. They are also small in economic terms, they often have low profitability, and they are not rarely associated with relatively high risks. Also in that context I speak from my own experience. Another problem is that the projects of which there is a little size are often located in the big cities, and it makes it difficult to get the kind of funding that cultural industries often need. Often it is difficult to see future performance. In the context of cultural projects, the ringing effects of the cultural project itself are often the ones that generate the most in terms of turnover in crowns and ears. This means that when assessing projects by Innovation Norway, when cultural-related projects do not compete with other projects because of a lack of business and socio-economic profitability, or what they call a lack of innovation. I believe that this shows that we need to change the instruments, so that they become more adapted to the cultural industries. In this context, I think it is right to recall that, while fishing and agriculture benefit from special schemes – and that is good – the Government, with the support of the Progress Party, has cut out the support scheme that had just been aimed at stimulating industrial development in the cultural field. At the same time, it is often the case that people who work with things related to culture do not know enough about the economic aspects of their businesses. They are often unable to communicate what they are doing, in a language that economists understand. Innovation Norway gave only 87 million last year. kr for cultural purposes. The cultural industries are also not as far defined as their own field of activity in Innovation Norway. The obvious positive thing about many cultural projects is that they are labour-intensive, they are environmentally friendly in a double sense, they pollute little, and they are positive for the social environment. In addition, they can be run over absolutely the whole country, from the smallest hook to the largest city. Today’s business incentives schemes are, as we see them, not very suitable, and their skills are not present either. As the representative of Thommes said, in other countries we have been told about, for example: Arts & Business, and I believe that we need to look at and learn more from the experiences that other countries have had and that they have done. We can choose to stimulate our own support schemes directly targeted at this sector, or we can provide for adaptation to and competence within the schemes already in place, possibly both – and. There are not many other industries that get so much out of and generate so much for ‘small’ dollars. An example we have in Namsos. Those who are now known as DDE – when a relatively unknown dance band project – got $100,000 because they had made a plan. Typically, these weren't airy ideas about how fun and nice it is to play music and entertain people. It was a rather strict business plan, a business project. They got the money – good work both from those who distributed the money, and from those who applied for the money – and we know the success. The music we can mean what we want about, but the commercial success we can mean little more than congratulating! Education is important. During this period we have established the cultural school system for all children in Norway. It's related to the discussion we have today, because in this context it means an enormous potential, and that productions must be created. There is a basis given so that artists can actually establish themselves and live by producing art in the districts. That means that what will be needed further is more people who know something about dissemination and who know something about production. A little in another field, film: Norwegian film goes down, and I'm glad we've chosen to join an incentive scheme to get foreign productions to Norway. We want to give 15 pst. reimbursement of expenditure on foreign production. This goes a little bit further in relation to SV's basic philosophy in the field, but we're willing to try to see what's actually left of this. We're going to compete here in an international market to get these productions, and we know examples from, for example. New Zealand and Switzerland that have given great success. Obviously, here we are not just talking about good economics, but also, not least, that we can stimulate the Norwegian manufacturing environment. So to the book business. In Norway the book industry has stood up for many years, with the weight well distributed on both legs, both by culture and by industry. I have a feeling that what's happened in the last year is that the weight has probably moved a little bit heavy on the foot that's called nourishment. I think it would be right to wait and see how this works, but would be willing to move something more of the weight over to the other foot if it would prove necessary. What I'm thinking about is, of course, the production of Norwegian books, of narrow literature, and not least the maintenance of district bookstores. So to music. Here, there is a variety of schemes that can get on the road. I see that I can't get into it. As for dance memos, I had the pleasure of being invited to dance by the representative Eirin Fallet. Of course, I could not resist the temptation, let me tear into the dance, and I have agreed to join in. That I thought was nice, not least to be able to please Eirin Fallet. But I expect that if I am pleased with the representative Eirin Fallet, the other person can be satisfied too. When we believe that the potential for growth in this sector is significant, it is based on an understanding that increased income and more leisure time in the future will give more demand for cultural experiences. Culture is becoming increasingly important for cities and regions in the fight to attract new residents and tourists. It will be that it does not help how many hospitals and fine roads there are in a region; today's people do not want to establish themselves where there is no good cultural offer. So finally, and this is important: at the same time, we have to be aware that cultural industries in many contexts are not like other industries. They cannot simply be put into frameworks like other parts of business for business purposes and market uptake. We must be conscious of the potential of cultural industries, but at the same time we must have the understanding that culture cannot and should not be adapted to ordinary market mechanisms. It is our responsibility that there is an awareness at the bottom of the understanding of artistic integrity, the need for culture to maintain its independence and in many respects its free position. The biggest challenge we have in the future is to be able to create growth and activity across the country based on culture, while at the same time making borderline moves towards commercialisation and market thinking. I will discuss the proposal SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e293	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Mr S. Woldseth has asked for the floor to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e298	In my eagerness to hear what the others had to say, I forgot to take up the suggestions that we have made, but that is what has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e303	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e306	We are debating the first big message that has been made on the theme of culture and industry. Philologically, these two words, culture and nutrition, have the same origin. The word culture has the same root as cultivators/growth/get it to grow, while nutrition is about the same thing: creating, increasing values, etc. A great deal of contact and interaction between different parts of cultural life, enterprises and businesses has been developed in Norway. Much of the cooperation between culture and industry in different facets needs to be seen as very positive, although pitfalls are also present. Previous speeches were also about that. I think it is also important from my side to stress that respect for the artists' integrity is to be shown. Art and the self-esteem of culture must be elevated and must not become a victim in the time of commercialism. While there have been close links between culture and nutrition for a long time, there seems to be few, whether cultural or business, who fully know how to move on to extract synergies of a greater degree of interaction. Therefore, it was a bit significant that the open hearings on culture and nutrition were somewhat similar to the annual budget hearings on the Ministry of Culture’s budget. Those who were there were busy telling about themselves and how we could contribute in different ways to improving their framework conditions. Nothing wrong said about it, but it tells us that we have a way to go to find out more about the opportunities that lie not least within culture-based business. St. Report. No But 22 gives an incredible amount of knowledge about the field. It is partly exciting reading, providing good analysis, interesting overviews, making important assessments, etc. It is primarily a good basic document, a platform for progress. It certainly leaves a feeling that there is a significant untapped potential for further value creation in the field of arts/culture-industry intersections. There is every reason to give tribute to the people of the Ministry of Culture, to everyone behind the message, for the valuable work that has been done. That being said, it should be said at the same time that this should be considered a first step. This must be seen not least in the light of the fact that the notification is primarily a sectoral notification, largely designed by a sector ministry, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church. Furthermore, the aim must be to facilitate cross-sectoral interaction between the two fields, culture and industry. We're not allowed to put a dot with this message, we're allowed to put a colon. That is why I am very pleased with the proposal for follow-up to the Committee and which is contained in the motion for a resolution, point I, in the vote. In the proposal, we ask the Government to present a comprehensive cross-sectoral action plan, in which the innovation policy instrument is actively linked in order to ensure a better exploitation of the potential of the field of culture and industry. This proposal is not an expression of a broken code that will trigger major synergies. But while the message is a good start, one points to the need to get a step number. two, the assumption of which must be to draw more closely with the industrial policy instrument. This does not mean that the Storting should instruct the Minister of Industry and others to redefine their adopted strategies for the development of industry, rather than revise the guidelines for Innovation Norway or other parts of the apparatus. The main aim has been to point to the need now to move forward with a more concrete work to trigger something that we believe lies in the field of culture and nutrition. In order to achieve this, we first need a cross-sectoral approach, where more ministries, not least the Ministry of Industry, but also the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education and Research, are involved and contribute their tools. This is not necessarily just about the supply of financial resources. It includes everything from research and development, the review of tax arrangements for actions of this type, looking at possible incentives, facilitating at all levels of culture-based business, the provision of skills. Above all, it is about attitudes. Of course, this is not enough for the Stortinget to do, so further work is needed in the departments and in the apparatus where value creation is usually organised. Now my time is up. I had prepared for a little longer speaking time today, so I'm drawing for a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e330	Yeah, I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e333	The centre party is pleased that we now, about a year after dealing with the cultural message, have received a message about the relationship between culture and business, as the majority of people asked for. Cultural industries are between the most widely grown industries and still have a high potential for further growth. The centre party is occupied by the lack of culture and culture industries. When it comes to cultural policy, we need to take full account of the wide range of voluntary cultural life as a choir and corps to cultural institutions and workers operating in an approximate commercial market. Between these extremes, there's a lot of shades. If you want to keep this gap going, it's an important point that not everyone can be dealt with in the same way when it relates to the level of public support on the one hand and the level of commercialisation on the other. At the bottom of public cultural policy there must always be a responsibility to ensure a cultural shortage throughout the country. The public has a special responsibility to take care of valuable expressions that cannot be expected to be financed through private funds or that cannot be based on e.g. high salsa or large public gap. The centre party is in favour of more cooperation between culture and industry and a more offensive innovation programme for cultural industries. The need for public support will vary, but for the Central Party it is important to stress that public cultural freedoms will often be the pillar and the stable basis on which cultural industries can develop further. It is therefore necessary to add to the focus on cultural industries and not on public responsibility to facilitate art and cultural activities. The centre party believes the public actively must facilitate the development of cultural industries. If you want to close with such a bet, you need a public incentive, among other things. in the form of support for innovation. The message describes the situation of many cultural industries in a good way. The Central Party would like the Government to have had greater ambitions and concrete measures for the role of the cultural sector in rural development, value creation and employment throughout the country. But it is positive that the committee has gathered about I in the setting. This will help us to take a long step forward at a later stage. The centre party thinks it must be a priority government task to create lasting equal conditions to create jobs in this industry across the country, not just in the metropolitan regions. Today there are about 70 pst. of the employment and enterprises of the cultural industries of the four metropolitan regions, with Oslo as a clear centre of gravity. We want to point to the change that is about to happen when it applies to each and how jobs are established. An ongoing concentration of the basic competence for culture and culture-based nutrient development in and around the major cities could lead to further strengthening of the growth there, and also contribute to increased migratory flows away from the districts and towards these locations. The centre party would point out that today there is also a high level of competence attached to cultural-based nutrient development in small and large communities throughout the country, often linked to cultural institutions. We are therefore pleased that the majority in the Committee are united when we focus on the need to further develop these institutions to become viable clusters of competences. So these can be a real factor for the development of culture-based industries even in smaller towns and cities. Future cultural policy can be a key factor in industrial development and patterns of development across the country. Cultural travel is another important field of activity. Many tourists come to Norway to experience nature. In the further development of Norway as an attractive travel destination, the Centre Party believes that one must strengthen the commitment to the role of culture. Here's a big potential. The centre party has always taken a positive view of the plans ahead when it comes to Birka's development. We therefore support proposal No. 9 from the Labour Party, and will vote for it during the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e352	A living cultural life has a strong self-esteem. It helps us to develop as individuals and as citizens of society. But culture also has a positive and enriching effect on industry. A strong cultural life linked to nutrition has many synergies. It has an increasing impact on Norwegian exports, and it is essential for tourism and for ensuring and shaping future regional policies. There is every reason to be satisfied with St.meld. No 22 on culture and industry. The notification shows everything on the first page how important cultural industries are in Norway, also economically. Mapping Eastern research has done of the culture industry, shows a dimension we had never been able to predict a few years ago. Research also shows that growth rates are higher than in most other industries. We see that in many places in the country there is constructive cooperation between culture and business. We've seen a dawning start, with small business checks, often without return agreements, but with great confidence that cultural life can manage the money very wisely. Now we see more and more overall cooperation, where companies get something concrete left for sponsorship, often linked to individual events or festivals. Then we have an increasingly clear development towards long-term cooperation, where creative forces from cultural life are being hired to strengthen the creativity of the company. Now I just have to make a little comment to Lund Bergo, who says that it is the public that ensures that you get a control of the art. There's no rule for that. I have experienced that the Municipality of Oslo has gone in and tried to stop a graffiti artist, while private companies, which stood for the properties in the area, wanted to sponsor him in order for him to continue. The freedom of the artist lies in the diversity of sources of funding — a diversity that is certainly not easy to see for a socialist. Art and culture have maritimeed a self-esteem. Today, we talk more about the added value of interaction with societal developments, in a vision that Norway will become one of the most innovative countries in Europe. It's not like culture just has values outside. I'm very provoked that many people often talk about child and youth culture, for example. as just prevention — a way we had never been able to talk about adult culture. It's e.g. no one here who might argue to build an opera in Bjørvika just so that adults wouldn't beat each other or drink that night! All culture has a self-esteem. For us, prioritizing the creative sector – creative industries and the creative industry is a key issue. For the Left, important issues here are the framework conditions for strengthening innovation in business and the interaction between business and culture. Very many economic operators in Norwegian cultural life are typical small businesses. They work, like all other small and medium-sized enterprises, with heavy reporting requirements, form fields and complex legislation. Working for a simpler everyday life for small and medium-sized enterprises is in practice fighting for a typical cultural enterprise. It's been a long time since Left. Innovation Norway is one of several important instruments to promote culture and nutrition, for example: I can mention the creative environment that resulted in Bokbyen at Skagerrak in Tvedestrand, which I have followed. Innovation Norway has provided funds for an impressive competence programme for both professional and voluntary forces in Bokbyen. Let me also mention that the big message gives good inspiration to bet on and strengthen and develop the cultural school across the country. With the cultural school as one of the very few Nordic contributions to world education, we can strengthen the creative forces from childhood. There are such creative forces the municipalities should be committed to, with the aim of treating any youth so that the youth seas want to get out, get a solid education and get home and either seas start a creative enterprise or strengthen the creativity of the businesses that are there – just look at all the young girls who have started viable ballet institutions across the whole country. The cultural school bag is far on the way to a left-wing project from More and Romesdal. That investment is another good example of how successful a targeted bet can be. It has provided – and will continue to provide – good cultural experiences for children and young people, and it provides significant soil and growth conditions for cultural life throughout the country. In view of the organisation, it is important that the public in the future should provide sound support schemes for local and regional cultural buildings, in line with the successful and good gambling schemes we have in the field of sports facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e378	The Labour Party believes that art and culture are a significant industry and provide many jobs. Experience and participation in the field of art and culture cannot be facilitated by market forces alone but requires strong political and public engagement. Cultural policy focuses in particular on those parts of the cultural sector that do not have sufficient performance on the marketing of goods and services in a market. The main objectives of cultural policy are to promote cultural and aesthetic diversity. I would like to thank all the volunteer cultural workers around the country who spend many hours working to create well-being in the community. The working party will facilitate the participation and development of all those who wish to participate in cultural activities. Art and culture are about the quality of life and the identity of the individual. Then I want to get into this with travel life, because travel life is an industry that can be linked to local culture. The Working Party believes that more attention needs to be paid to the cultural tourism industry. I want to show that many municipalities have succeeded in doing so. Trysil, for example, has invested in tourism – and has succeeded. The municipality has a good concept, which can be a model for other municipalities that want to do the same for developing skills and offering experiences to others. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that a centre of expertise should be established for travel life in Trysil. A living cultural life consists of both professional activity and amateur activity. The music industry in Norway employs around 10 000 people. Industry is a significant contributor to cultural life, while making a significant contribution to gross domestic product. The VAT law exempts concerts today, while dance events pay VAT. The only difference is that the audience is standing or sitting on concerts while they are at dance events. The Labour Party considers this to be a gross discrimination. The organizers of dance parties are often sports teams, well-being, corps, choirs and charities to raise revenue to continue. In many ways, we hear that the Norwegian people have to move more because we're too fat. What's wrong with dancing? I am pleased that the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are united in changing this VAT rule today. I heard a representative from the Right Party calling the dance band music “roar music” here during the day. Think about it! I think all the dance sails should notice that. I can only mention that 25 000 participated in the dance gallery in Seljord, and 17 000 in Sel. This is a great day for many organizers and dancers. I do not understand that not all parties can support this proposal. I've given up the right party with the background in the term 'roar music', but the Christian People's Party should be able to participate in this. The reason why I am addressing myself directly to the Christian People's Party now is what Prøysen writes in his «Warning», which is the following: «And this doctrine thou shalt see:D's fail for him that is a doom, but thou standest still and feelest with; then it is a failure, then it shall happen!» I will end by saying to SV and Magnar Lund Bergo that there was a nice dance, which I brought with me in my heart. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e408	This was a fun recording. Before I start my article myself, I would like to thank the representatives Lund Bergo and Woldseth for the good news. I think it is good that at least some opposition party can be so rusty with a government party when the work is good. I'm completely in what they said! St.meld. No 22, Culture and Industry, based on a recognition that culture plays a fundamental role in social development, and on a vision that Norway should benefit from the potential for development in the crop-to-food sector, better in the future. If we're going to succeed in this, we don't just have to have offensive cultural policies, like that. are included in the Culture Communication, we also need to ensure that the cultural sector is given greater space and accepted within a cross-sectoral innovation policy. I am pleased that the Storting supports me in this assessment. The message is broad and highlights three aspects of the relationship between culture and industry. Firstly, parts of the cultural sector include economic growth industries with a relatively high impact on the Norwegian economy. Secondly, interactions between culture and nutrition can be fruitful for both parties. Thirdly, culture and culture-based industries can play an important role in local and regional development. The main aim of the communication was to present a comprehensive review of the subject of culture and industry, based on available basic documents. The message shows that cultural industries are dependent on tools and framework conditions across a wide range of policy areas, and that a lot is happening in many fields. The potential for promoting the development and growth of the culture-based industries is present. The cultural sector is composed of enterprises with very different financing structures and industrial development potential. The actors in the cultural sector are spreading from the purely ideal activities, which will always depend on public support, to the purely commercial activities, which are driven on a commercial basis. It is important to stress that only parts of the field have a potential to develop profitable and market-based enterprises. In particular, this should be an important reminder for the publicly supported cultural institutions, which are set up for purposes other than economic value creation, but which nevertheless make increasing efforts to legitimise their own business with nutrition arguments. As Minister of Culture, I find reason to warn against such a combination of cards. Nor is it what the Progress Party claims in its position, namely that cultural policy and industrial policy are almost two sides of the same coin. I would warn against the idea that the distinction between business and cultural life's values and interests is an artificial distinction. Such rhetoric is dangerous and completely depletes under the devices and objectives of cultural policy. Cultural policy should not be set up in such a way that cultural activities need to be more widely perceived as cultural activities. I am pleased that the plurality so clearly marks the distance from such ideas and at the same time highlights the distinction between cultural policy and industrial policy in the message. Cultural policy is rooted in the idea of culture's self-esteem, where the main objective is to promote cultural and aesthetic diversity, to stimulate artistic quality and innovation, to preserve and secure cultural heritage and to facilitate access for the whole population to a proper and diverse cultural offer. The various cultural policy systems established over many decades constitute fundamental foundations for the development of cultural industries. The overarching objective of industrial policy is to strengthen the value creation of the Norwegian economy. Developing the nutritional potential of the cultural industries should therefore be a primary challenge for business policy. However, the means of promoting such development cannot in any way replace cultural policy-based instruments intended to contribute to deprivation, quality and access. Culture-based industries represent a particular challenge when it relates to the relationship between cultural and industrial policies and the design of cultural and industrial instruments. It's very complicated that a range of cultural products, such as film, books and music, in many cases have both good and common good aspects. The fact that cultural products are considered common good means that cultural policy instruments aim in different ways to secure and/or promote the production and distribution of such products in addition to the market that is willing to pay. Such instruments are usually justified by the fact that the manufacture of the product has a cultural and/or social value in addition to the economic value, if any. The design of industrial policy instruments, on the other hand, is based on the economic value of the products. The market price can give an indication of the economic value of a cultural product, while value added and employment can provide a measure of their contribution to the growth and value creation of cultural industries in a limited geographical area. I would like to draw attention to the fact that professional art both within and outside institutions is very important for the growth of cultural industries. It's e.g. identified a marked growth in the artistic core business. A basic investment in these is also a commitment to the further development of culture-based industries. In this context, the follow-up to actions in the Culture Communication is important. It seems to me that a cross-sectoral policy, which also covers cultural industries, must be based primarily on a long-term perspective and on the cultural sector rather than on a medium-term basis, rather than on economic growth. Short-term instrumental solutions, one-sided based on economic rationality, will erode precisely the vitality and creativity of the value of art and culture, both for innovative industrial development and for social development, or else. Perhaps especially in regionalisation debates and in the context of urban development and development projects, it is important to ensure that the cultural sector is not only assessed as a means of achieving other benefits. Finding a balance between cultural and industrial policy instruments that meet both food and cultural policy objectives is a very demanding exercise. I mean, the message provides a good basis for the further work of discussing what means of supplementing and strengthening the existing tool aimed at the development of culture-based industries. The Storting asks the Government to ensure that live music dance performances are defined as concerts and that they are exempt from VAT from 1 January 2006. I have, among other things: labeled me the engagement to the Eirin Fallet, and that in that context she has offered up to dance. What I really don't understand is, why in all the world has the Labour Party presented a case that facilitates this difference? That's what the background is for us to be like, because the Labour Party has decided that before! I see that someone has taken a different position. I just want to say that in the message we have done well because the Ministry of Finance has started a work to review this field of culture and added value. It is too early to tell you today what the result of this review will be. But to put it this way: the foundation work is already there, and it's the second party that's added. Many actors have expressed the desire to introduce tax incentives for different forms of cooperation between cultural and business life. I understand that many cultural policy actors working on plans and ideas far beyond what is possible to realize within the framework of grants want this. Sponsor funds can be a source of greater flexibility and room for action for many institutions in the cultural sector. Nevertheless, we should bear in mind that there is a wide variation in the extent to which cultural institutions have resources and opportunities to acquire partners. For example, it can be difficult for the small and the narrow. We can't have a situation in Norway where the cultural sector depends on making itself attractive to business. It is therefore an important cultural policy principle that private funds should complement public framework conditions. For me, it is important to preserve the freedom of art for the cultural sector to have a function in society based on values and interests other than business and the market. Public cultural policy is based on an arm's length principle to ensure that competent quality assessments underpin the allocation of resources. It is also important to ensure that cooperation between cultural and business life takes place in such a way as to preserve the integrity of art and culture and self-esteem. This becomes an increasingly relevant issue as one sees trends in more integrated cooperation agreements in which cultural life provides more and more in its business services. From a cultural policy perspective, tax incentives aimed at promoting sponsorship and cooperation are a direct tool that must be assessed against other targeted instruments that channel funds directly into cultural life. Any tax incentive must also be seen in conjunction with the general tax policy which refuses to introduce specific tax measures aimed at individual sectors. There are also other tools to promote fruitful cooperation between cultural and business life. In Norway, the traditions of business support and cooperation with cultural life are weaker than in many other countries, and the distance between economic and cultural capital is probably relatively large. This means that it is particularly important to build up knowledge and skills in order to disseminate information that can help business to become more involved. Here, the Forum for Culture & Business is doing an important job, which can have an impact on a more long-term perspective. There are also many other environments and actors in this area. In general, you should look at how the information channels can be adapted to each other, so that information and knowledge can be best disseminated. I noticed that the majority also said something about film. [[President clubs]] I'm assuming that there's something that's drawn up in the line rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e468	First, a little bit of detail. The dance room is a pointless arrangement. If Turboneger plays and people stay calm, it's a VAT exemption. If Turboneger plays and people move, it's a dance event, and VAT is to be paid! It must be absolutely unnecessary to wait for any full VAT reform in relation to the entire cultural field to resolve such a matter, namely the interpretation of a regulation. We could do that when we were in government, but we sat for three months after the VAT reform was introduced, so we didn't see this kind of change. This could have been fixed by the Council of State. So to the message. It is an excellent message. The problem is that it could have been written by the Statistical Central Bureau! It is an estimation, a survey of the field of culture in relation to industry, but completely devoid of concrete strategies, goals and ambitions for how to realise it. Why should we not have the same ambitions to develop business, set concrete goals in the field of culture, as we do in defence, research, care for the elderly and all other areas – concrete goals we can pursue, concrete strategies that we want to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e475	I also think there may be some pointless things in the reform of VAT. I think we had long and many conversations with Schjøtt-Pedersen, who was the finance minister at the time, to get him to stretch both on one side and on the other to do things a little bit better compared to the service tax that was introduced. It's also an economic question. Had one done that there and then, it wouldn't have been an economic question, with a need for containment. Then the introduced service mom had got regulations, and one hadn't got this slightly loose discussion we now have, about concert and dance. Now it's there, and then it also needs the economy to introduce it. And then it's going to be given priority in connection with all of the other things that one also wants to introduce. I want to wait for the Ministry of Finance to review VAT and culture, and then we get to come back when we see the result. So I would also say that when it concerns the message, we didn't have too much time on it. We've done the best we can. We have also seen the comment that we are going to come back with an action plan. Then we have a good foundation work to move on, so that there may be more rights to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e486	The Council of State said in its statement that the private sector should be a complement to the public sector. Now, once again, the cultural industries are converting for NOK 33 billion, and the Ministry of Culture is granting about 4.5 billion. Then you can think a little bit about who it is as a supplement, and who isn't. Governments are attacking us, the Progress Party, in relation to this with tax incentives. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: is it not better to actually get tax incentives in relation to investment in new Norwegian music, visual arts and other culture, than to go in and contribute additional funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e493	The article from the representative, Woldseth, actually shows that there is a lot going on in this field without the Stortinge dealing with a big message, without us doing anything, without creating an action plan. It happens very well. There are things that benefit both business and cultural life, and of course we hope this will blossom and grow. At the same time, we know that there are also narrower cultural expressions that depend entirely on public support, where business actually becomes completely absurd. I want a cultural life that will also have room for these cultural expressions, not only those who go by themselves through support from business, but those who are narrower and who are involved in enriching our lives. Then I think we're still going to give support to culture. Business is active on its fronts. They're actually also without tax incentives. Some of them also have tax incentives that they use, and that's good. It shows that we have an interaction between culture and industry that is hopefully growing. But to say that we're going to have less from the public to the culture, what I think will make culture much narrower.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e503	The president reminds me that the time for a line is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e506	Last year, Innovation Norway spent 18 million. kr in earmarked funds for musicians and others who worked in the cultural industries. A total of 621 applications totaled 315 million. kr. It says something about the wishes and needs of this kind of means. As I said in my main post, these funds disappeared after the government's budgetary settlement with the Advance Party. Has the Council of State taken any new steps to get in or to strengthen these funds, in the budgets that are coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e513	No, I haven't taken any grip to get back these ear-marked funds. But what I'm very happy about is that we see that Innovation Norway still uses between 80 and 90 million. kr on the cultural sector, without any trace of it. It shows that they themselves consider many of these projects for which they are applied for, which are so positive that they use funds from Innovation Norway to the cultural sector without our ear-marked resources. I don't see it as a goal in itself that the funds should be earmarked, but I see it as a good goal that Innovation Norway will also be part of the cultural initiative. They are, despite the fact that the funds are not earmarked for that sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e520	The Culture Communication concluded that the role of the State should be primarily to facilitate and stimulate the development of the cultural sector. I believe that the Council of State and I have agreed that culture is the basic theme of industrial development, culture and nutrition – the message we are discussing now. I think we can smooth out the basics of business development by establishing viable – it can be – artistic or cultural clusters, for example. around existing institutions also in the smaller centres, with a view to increasing the potential for positive development. As it is today, it is easier to get 50 million. kr, e.g., to 200 new jobs in this sector – I am thinking about the opera in Oslo, to which we are otherwise positive – than it is getting 200 new jobs in division to the rest of the country. I would like the Council of State to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e531	I don't know if I fully understood the question. But I can agree that it may be easier to allow the funds that are needed to build an opera, in relation to many small applications for permits that come from all over the country. But one of the things I experience when I travel around, and I travel around a lot, is that there's a lot going on in this sector: old industrial halls become cultural halls, and small and large groups in the community go together and create cultural oasiss. It's not just in the big cities that it happens, it's also in smaller cities and smaller municipalities. So I have a sense that much more is happening in this field than we might be fully aware of. We have now completed a review of the message. I've pointed out a lot of what's going on. I hope it will grow further, and that we will also be better able to support it financially. I see clearly that this is absolutely necessary. We see that when the municipality, state and state merge, there is a lot of exciting happening within this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e540	What I find hard to understand is this incredible lack of ambition on behalf of cultural life. So we're talking about a government council that a year ago said no thanks to that 1 pst. of the State budget should go for cultural purposes. It must have been great for a Minister of Culture to go to the budgetary conferences with such a goal! Just the same defensive attitude prevails in the Communication on Culture and Industry, especially in the two main areas where we have the potential: music and film. As far as music is concerned, we have 20,000 children in line at the cultural schools. How many are there that could be great talents? Also in the message The Cultural School, where it is nearly £ 1/2 billion for different cultural purposes, fought the Council of State against with beaks and claws: No expansion of the Norway network for venues for bands and artists, no offensive bet on Music Export Norway. The same is true for movies: you cut in the Film Fund, say no to tax incentives and fight against cleaning up in relation to the cinema. Why don't we have the same ambitions in the cultural field that we have in all the other areas? That's my question to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e547	At least someone here in the room isn't renewing. It's quite clear. Just to say a little about the one percent on which the Cultural Promise is based, it has been used up a long time ago, if one is to compensate for the decisions that are likely to be made in the Creation today in the case of intellectual property. Had they really meant the cultural effort they're talking about, they would have had a completely different attitude to a matter that has great influence on writers, on musicians, on composers, etc. That's the truth when it comes to that bet, and then it's easy to promise in a cabin and there a couple of dollars both here and there when you're in opposition. Many of it as Trond Giske mentions, are things that he went against when he put into government. He went against when he was in government, and is suddenly for when he is in opposition. It's not very credible, at least I thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e554	The President would like to remind you that all speeches should be addressed to the President, even if it goes a bit hot sometimes. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e559	Culture has a self-esteem. Experiences, impressions and feelings of identity — everything will also be a trademark of Norwegian culture in the future. But we know that culture has evolved into also industrial development. Culturally-based nutrient development is growing in the country and in the western world. The Stoltenberg government took this into account and presented some examples of cultural and industrial projects in the investigation called Tango for two, where they also wanted a survey of the economic importance of the cultural sector. Last year, Eastern research presented a study, and it turns out that this type of industry employs about 87 000 people and creates values for about 33 billion dollars per year. year – confirmation of a growing industry. It is good that we have now received the message Culture and Industry, but the message did not outline any course on how we should progress in this cooperation. I miss that from what was said and written during the process of the cultural message until 2014. We produce and sell traditional goods today, but it is important that we get even more products marketed as something special through design, quality, environment and history. This also means selling Norwegian culture and quality abroad. For us in Norway, quality has always played a major role, and it still has to. We should pay attention to the promotion of culture in cultural and entrepreneurship education, and see this in the context of economic and technical education. Then we started from scratch, and the chance of success is even greater. Norway is a country with an amazing nature. Natural experiences, travel and tourism are especially developed in District Norway. Our country has a long coast, where there are many opportunities for cultural and industrial development. This is an important part of the Workers' Party's programme on a comprehensive coastal policy. The newspaper Nordlys 4th May read: ‘UT: Raw material and business clustersIN: Culture and knowledge’ Furthermore, it was said to read in Avisa Nordland the same day: ‘The strong growth of the cultural market in North Norway challenges banks, among other things, to rethink. Because while industry and culture have been two counterparts, culture has now become industry. Billion industry.’ Creativity creates growth. It is Sparebanken Nord-Norway that is producing surveying figures that show that North Norway traded cultural products for DKK 7.5 billion in 2004. As you can see, we are doing well in my part of the country, and with such an attitude from the banks, there are great opportunities for success in the future. We know that Innovation Norway and the banks have an influence on each other, and if we are to succeed in creating culture and economic development, Innovation Norway needs to be significantly increased, and the regional seed funds and municipal nutrition funds need to be expanded and strengthened. This will also affect banks’ lending willingness. The possibilities in North Norway are still many. In Northland, we have, among other things, Sculpture landscapes Nordland, a spectacular series of artworks exhibited in different landscapes from south to north in the county, and counting 33 cultural expressions created by some of the Nordic and world's leading artists. This is a work of art that can be visited 24 hours a day, free of charge. Here there are great opportunities for tourism, while at the same time experiencing the specificity of each municipality. I'm glad that the majority of the committee shares my views on the value of these. Finally, I would like to send a little warning. It is not a matter of becoming overly eager and believing that all kinds of culture can be nourished. It's not all cultural measures that make a lot of money. We live in a competitive and commercialised society, which has strengthened in recent years, but I hope that Norway will never get there to commercialise all cultural activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e600	We are dealing with an important matter today. There have been many interesting and well-meaning articles about the exciting interaction between culture and industry. Many people believe, and I think it is right that it is in the synergy between a rich and diverse cultural life and a well-functioning and sustainable business life that we will see in the years to come a great growth in new, creative and time-consuming jobs. I would particularly like to address the area of cultural travel. Cultural tourism is an area of strong growth, and it is a great potential for this industry in a country like ours. We have a rich and diverse cultural heritage to exploit. Culture is also becoming more and more important to attract tourists' interest. The modern tourist seems to be increasingly inquiring about cultural experiences – the real, natural and good experiences. The tourism industry is itself a major and important industry in Norway, with about one third of the total. 150 000 persons employed, who create values that make up almost 4 pst. of gross domestic product. Travel businesses are increasingly making use of public cultural life in their products. The important aspects of these offers are that they are generally half-commercial and lifestyle-oriented. They have largely been achieved through private initiative by business interests or by non-governmental organisations. Action in cultural tourism has several important elements in it. Firstly, they are very important instruments for local and regional development. In competition between regions, the regions that stimulate this type of industrial development are likely to be among the most attractive, not only in terms of attracting new residents, but also in relation to tourists and visitors. Secondly, cultural tourism activities create important local jobs, perhaps especially in regions where many industrial jobs have disappeared in the last decades. Developing new, forward-looking and sustainable jobs is an exciting effect of an ever-increasing interaction between culture and industry. Thirdly, the commitment to cultural travel allows important elements of our natural and cultural heritage to be preserved. New activity in old historical buildings ensures protection and upgrading. Dissemination of both industry and general local history contributes to keeping our rich cultural heritage alive and active. St.meld. No 16, Living with cultural memories, is to be dealt with later today. Here the Government proposes to establish a cultural memory and environment value creation program. The Programme shall stimulate the conservation of important cultural memory resources, for use in the development of local communities and as a basis for industrial activities. I think this is an exciting bet by the Government. It will be interesting to follow up and see the results of this interaction between the owners of cultural memories, business, other private and public actors, museums and non-governmental organisations. I am very pleased that the government is following up the regional message and is setting of 17 million. kr to the Society for Industrial Growth, SIVA, in the revised national budget. This includes, inter alia: other that a travel incubator at Lillehammer could be established already in the current year. This incubator will have a profile specifically aimed at travel life, focusing on cultural and experience products. I am also very pleased that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is now in the final phase of its work on an action plan for travel. It will be completed in the summer and both industry itself and Innovation Norway have been strongly involved in this work. In the revised budget for the current year, 15 million have been allocated. to follow up the action plan for the rest of the year. I think the government is clearly showing that it sees culture-based travel as an important industry of great growth. I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e623	Since the representative of Lund Bergo in the introduction has taken on board what is the general position of SV, I will focus on a point that the Committee has dealt with specifically, e.g. culture and industry in relation to North Norway. The Committee is based on a business cycle barometer presented by the Sparebank Nord-Norway in cooperation with the Nordic research community twice a year. The spring barometer notes that we are in a boom without employment growth. The barometer notes that 2004 was a quite serious year in relation to relocation from the region. So also writes the Sparebank Nord-Norway about the positive development potential in industries where North Norway has a special advantage, for example. fisheries, renewable energy or travel. There is a debate about the nature of Northern Norway travel, whether it is experience-based or culture-based. It's actually a little uninteresting debate, but it's a debate that's still emerging. The Nordic travel life is inextricably linked to nature, culture and experiences. The question is how we address it politically. The savings bank Nord-Norge also writes in this business survey that successful enterprises in the future will not only demand expertise, but creative skills from employees. At the same time, they say that existing cultural enterprises will also have a lot to pick up in collaboration with it as a must be referred to as traditional business. There are major synergies, and there is an aspect of the relationship between culture and nutrition that may come up little in the debate. Why is North Norway special? Northern Norway is special because the region has a truly globalised business that marks international fluctuations quickly, while the region has a larger public sector than the rest of the country. But North Norway is also special because the metaphor of North Norway is so strong. We are still getting this debate over in North Norway, the metaphor of North Norway. Professor Kjell Arne Røvik, of the University of Tromsø, gave a lecture a few years ago where he spoke, among other things. said that an exciting and attractive story of what North Norway is and what it will be is probably much more informative than any of the gloomy, rational predictions based on dry statistics. So he chooses to explain developments in North Norway through a cultural approach and not a materialistic approach. His course for the development of North Norway is to tell more — and better — about North Norway. Let's not hang ourselves up in the traditional narrative of the sarcasm, of the curse and of the overwhelming nature. I think this has been an exciting play in relation to developments in the north. I have chosen to understand Professor Røvik so that the traditional story is not necessarily wrong, but that his point is that we need more and more different stories about North Norway. The political point is that metaphors are powerful when it comes to development. Stronger than metaphors is action. I have been afraid that the debate on the new story of North Norway would be the elite in North Norway's project, that there would be an intellectual discussion about what is the real story of North Norway and what is the traditional story of North Norway. The only way to get out of this is to focus on people being not just cultural consumers, but cultural producers, and it requires political choices. The initiative in the cultural school system is an excellent measure to make young people cultural producers, in meeting professional artists, in meeting cultural heritage, but not least through self-employment. It is not obvious in 2005 that culture should be a common good anymore. We see in other countries, for example. Denmark, a trend towards greater self-payment, commercialisation and non-profit-making focus also in the cultural sector. I believe that the cultural promise, as it has been realised, is a counterbalance to this – a concrete measure to ensure that culture remains a common asset, and not least that culture should be a driving force in the development of nutrition and in regional development: taking as a basis regional advantage, taking as a basis traditions, creating synergies between existing business and cultural industries, between people's professional skills and people's creativity. And it is an important aspect of this debate. It is expressed in fine words, but it is the real political priorities that show the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e647	Those who know me might have thought that I would start by talking about films, but on the basis of the debate, I would like to start with Innovation Norway. Several in this debate have mentioned the role of Innovation Norway in this work, and I want to get a little closer to how they view their own situation. In the hearings in connection with this message, which I followed from the sidebar, Innovation Norway was present, and I would like to quote what they say in their summary of their consultation note: ‘Cultural enterprises have a high potential for development, and the Storting Communication provides a very good overview and statistics on industries.Innovation Norway has a customer-oriented apparatus, both domestic and foreign, national and international networks, relevant service provision, competence, etc., which is also available for culture-based enterprises. In 2004 cultural enterprises received SEK 87 million in loans and grants from Innovation Norway.’ And then they finally say, ‘We point to the need for skills development both in the long and short term and the need for Norway to have the same framework conditions as other countries in order to attract foreign film production’. And they say, ‘Innovation Norway underlines the need for an increased financial framework, especially in key areas that will also benefit cultural-based enterprises, as these are particularly affected by capital shortfalls.’ I want to get to the last one first. Music Export Norway is an organisation that received support on the basis of the earmarked funds proposed by the Workers' Party for culture-based industries. Then the sitting government removed this designation, and Music Export Norway has now submitted an application for support since January. They have become a throwing ball between the head office Innovation Norway and Oslo and the Akershus office. This is hopeless, because the Oslo and Akershus offices do not have the means to finance nationwide organisations such as Music Export Norway, they will serve the whole country and contribute to the export of music. This has to be sorted out, it shows that this system doesn't work well enough. It has to be cleaned up in this. So maybe what I burn the most for, and that's the film industry. In January 2004, I had the pleasure of getting acquainted with some representatives of the film industry in Norway, and they were especially concerned about attracting foreign film productions to Norway. They asked for a meeting to present their ideas to some of us, and those were exciting ideas they put forward. After this meeting, we have joined forces and explored the challenges and opportunities for this in Norway. Is it possible to make Norway a New Zealand or Ireland in this context? I also had an interpellation on this issue in February 2004, where the other Minister of Industry was involved. He misses me today – he should be here. There were many positive contributions to these ideas, from all the games on the Stortinget, and it was exciting. Filmmakers proposed different incentives for attracting foreign film production. They have also worked hard to get to this later. They have had a lot of contact with Stortinget. That is why I am very pleased that we finally have a majority for such a proposal here today, and that it will be adopted. Norway has a good and knowledgeable film environment, in this country we have a nature and an opportunity to produce films that few other countries have, and we have a population that can also contribute in many ways. Our only challenge is that it's a little bit expensive here. This could be improved by the incentives now proposed as a testing scheme. I have great faith that the people who were here from Bollywood find this interesting. I have great faith that the Norwegian Film Commission, with its powerful environment and apparatus, can help us, together with Innovation Norway, if not for too long, have foreign producers here in Norway who find it exciting to produce. PricewaterhouseCoopers has presented an investigation called Film as a growth industry, and there are many good arguments for this. This should be a general reading for those who are concerned about creating new growth industries in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e680	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e683	‘To talk about culture-based industries without looking at creative capital is like talking about powerful industries without having power.’ It writes Geir Kragset in the Official Journal of Bergen on 18 May this year. And that's what it's all about. If culture-based industries are to develop and flourish throughout the country, they must be able to make it easier for artists to find their place of work and to be born in the district of Norway. Public support schemes are important, but they must be designed to expand the market for, among other things. contemporary art, so that artists can live more fully from their own income. At the same time, Norwegian companies need to increase their innovation rate. A measure that would contribute in such a direction has been proposed to allow private companies to write off investments in the art of novice artists bought in the first paragraph, i.e. directly or by the gallery artist. Those who want an example of how the use of contemporary art in an act can get out and work can take a trip to Signex here in Oslo. The production facilities are contemporary-art specks and are involved in keeping the business at the forefront of innovation and innovation in their field. Art as an input can also be used for marketing, branding and profiling otherwise, not least by internationalisation. Where craft traditions are strong, it is very well suited for the inclusion of creative capital in the production process itself, which in turn helps to stimulate the development of both new products and production processes. We have good examples of enterprises that are fortunately able to use cultural skills to create new products that can give commercial ignition. In the West, we have between Oleana, Figjo, Stokke and Bergen, all of whom benefit from creative design and artistic competence to create added value in their product. In the future, it will be about political will to take culturally based nutrition seriously. When about 70 pst. by the creative artists in the capital city area, regions have no competitive advantage in terms of culture-based industries. It is then necessary to focus more on facilitating the holding or withdrawal of such capital by the different regions. One example I would like to mention is the Sparebank West, which has set up scholarships for creative artists, just to stimulate the creation of value in the West. It does a business operator, but it takes two for tango, and then cultural life has to be part of it and have a desire to be a desirable, creative capital. Finally, I would like to join those who are interested in making it possible for several filmmakers to select Norway as their recording location. It will have great ringing effects. I would also like to join those who have named Innovation Norway as an important actor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e704	I am very pleased that today's treatment of the big business news actually makes quite clear how culture creates growth, economic growth, and development. Although not everyone who participates in today's debate is able to enjoy the fact that there has never been more money spent on culture in Norway than today, that there have never been more cultural workers in turn, professional ones, than today, it gets so. But I also believe today's debate shows that if a society, a community, is to succeed and become attractive, bring about development in the future, then the concept of culture and nutrition must go hand in hand. Culture contributes to making a society attractive, and we have many examples around Norway that can appear as evidence of this: look at Senja, look at the Finnmarks wide, look at the Lofoten, for example, how culture can make one krone to become four kronor just by getting the professionalized term and getting system developed. And those who talk about neutrality, business neutrality, etc. may hardly have taken the trouble to read the message. We stimulate business to create growth and development. Similarly, of course, we need to stimulate culture in order to create development through it. This has been pointed out in the debate to the Nord-Norway Cultural Barometer of the Reserve Bank. The fact is that it is the sector in the northern part of the country that currently has the largest growth, a growth that comes from economic development, increased purchasing power, increased leisure time and that most people use more and more of their disposable income to culture. It is shown through the cultural barometer that there is a turnover around the cultural concept in the northern part of the country of about DKK7.5 billion and a much larger potential. It refers to the propensity to invest in the cultural sector, which in turn gives the abovementioned and positive ring-effects. That is why it is important that we have this debate today, which is why the communication is important, and it is therefore important that we also get even better insights into how important it is to bet on culture as a sustainability to develop businesses and to make society even more attractive than they are today. So this is about a win-win situation, where we're getting more and more examples that investing in culture provides a profit that almost cannot be compared to anything else in this country in terms of value creation, growth and employment, and is a contribution to making local communities even more attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e717	The representative of Grethe Fossli addressed Innovation Norway in his speech. I want to point to SIVA, where I know you've thought a lot about strengthening the relationship between culture and nutrition. The SIVA incubator concept should be one of several measures to increase the survival and growth capacity of cultural enterprises. An incubator is comparable to a kind of ‘dinning room’ for new enterprises. I would like to point out that the co-location within such a ‘breeding room’ leads to a high level of contact and exchange of experience between entrepreneurs in terms of business activities, networks and professional impulses. Co-location also provides a good social environment. Incubators also provide premises and some office services. Furthermore, the companies/founders are followed up by one or more competent persons. Experience has shown that these incubators improve the survival and growth capacity of businesses. In this environment, there seems to be a belief in the importance of the development of a culture-based business for housing, innovation and value creation in addition to research-based business and industry. This and other measures must be put into effect and must be included in the plan to be implemented subsequently. It is also gratifying to note that many, not least locally, are now very concerned with a closer approach between culture and industry. An example of an exciting project in this context from my own area of the country, namely the municipality of Frøya, is the development and innovation project ‘Freight into the future’. An important part of the project is to stimulate cultural activities in the local environment and connect them to the different activities. There is no doubt that culture is an instrument to keep young people in Utkant-Norway, and not least to get them back. So this also has to be used more actively. Another example from the same county is a project that has also been put in a proposal today, called Birka in Rennebu, which I know well. It has sprung out of a different and very successful urbanemartna, Rennebumartnan, which collects quality and craftsmanship from all over Norway every year to a large trade fair. This action has generated interest and has had ring-fenced effects far beyond the community, while contributing strongly to the creation of new services in the countryside. In 2004, Rennebu had a small increase in the population for the first time in a long time. I don't think we need to use so many more words on this. Now action is needed, so action plan is needed. Finally, outside the amphibian of Fröya culture house, there is a beautiful ‘image’ that illustrates two hands in a handle. It shall symbolise ‘culture and nutrition — hand in hand’. It hears that it was the founder of a well-known company in the municipality that took the initiative in the picture in the cultural house, and that also finances it, an image that I think can be a headline also on what we want to be real for this work to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e732	Increased focus on the relationship between culture, industry and economic development is equal to community construction and is very important for District Norway. It turns out that food and food culture are becoming more and more important to individuals when we choose which country we want to stay in. Food and food culture are increasingly seen in the context of travel and the development of experiences based on local culture, nature and cultural heritage. It is therefore positive that food and food culture have become an important element in the marketing of Norway abroad. Today, more and more offers are emerging throughout the country, where food and meal experiences and local cultural and natural experiences are important factors. The importance of food is important from a cultural historical perspective as a field of activity and profile bearing both national and international. For 20 years, the Norwegian Food Festival in Ålesund has confirmed its role as a meeting place for fisheries, agriculture, the food industry, the food industry, large households and, in particular, travel. The food festival promotes the production, processing and consumption of Norwegian food based on Norwegian raw materials from agriculture and fisheries and is therefore a unique arena to raise knowledge, commitment and interest in Norwegian food culture far beyond its borders. In Norway today, we have more high-profile chefs, more with good results in international competitions. Food festivals contribute to putting the future of Norwegian food production on the agenda and will play an increasingly important role in the relationship between culture and industry. I am therefore pleased that the Norwegian Food Festival in Ålesund has earned a place in the message. The Norwegian Food Festival contributes to increased competence, interest and commitment to Norwegian-produced food, and at the heart of the festival is the Norwegian Cook Art Championship. The food festival also contributes to the development and creation of new, important jobs, in a region with high potential for development within, among others. fisheries and fisheries processing. Norway is the leader in the production of seafood. In Norway, we have long traditions and good competences, which are important as part of the Norwegian coastal culture and food culture. In the further development of this and other important industries in food and food culture, the Norwegian Food Festival in Ålesund will play a very important role in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e749	What made me take the floor was that the Council of State gave us the impression that we wanted to give less money to culture, and that there was some culture that had to be protected in terms of nutrition. Firstly, I just have to be allowed to clarify, if there is any doubt about it, that the Progress Party in its party programme says that the state should be responsible for the Norwegian cultural heritage and traditions, and that we should take care of them, our cultural taxes as well. The state has a responsibility for that, and we have never discussed that. So that we want less money for culture. If the Council of State had thought a little bit about it, she also knows that we've added 180 million cultural crowns to culture through the changed key, in collaboration with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, which means that the cultural school bag actually works well all around the country. This is the party of progress proud of. And then there's someone who makes it sound like culture and nutrition are opposites, that you can't talk about it in the same breath. But you can actually do it. I would like to see even the very narrowest cultural actor who does not have an inherent desire to be recognized and earn money from it. I think everyone wants to be recognized, and that making money on the art you're doing, and doing artistic activity in different forms stands in contrast to each other, I can't see. I think it is quite remarkable that when the Progress Party even extends a hand and says that we want to simplify the tax rules for workers, individual enterprises and activities in the cultural activities, everyone is in a way a little against it. It is precisely to be able to offer performers in different forms and variants an opportunity to live on what they serve.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e758	The center party thinks there are several things that can be grasped when it comes to culture-based industry. Among other things, higher education in different arts and cultural disciplines is an important field of activity, and there is still a need for increased investment in communication skills and in education within cultural entrepreneurship, administration, marketing and production. The development of educational provision should be largely added to the regions, so that cultural and artistic competence environments can be established and developed that can further stimulate cultural innovation and entrepreneurship, even outside the major cities. The fact that the government went in to remove the ear-marked addition to decentralised higher education has had great negative consequences for the positive developments we have had in the cultural area of Kristiansund and the region there. Then I would like to remind the Council of State that the copyright was debated and signed in Odelstinget on Saturday. However, I would like to ask if the Council of State is still so busy that today the Creation process is to deal with copyright, that it is difficult to concentrate when it comes to replication. The central party believes that culture is a basic concept, like a basic pillar, for further development within culture and nutrition. If it is to be successful, the basic statement must be set, i.e. culture, be strengthened throughout the country. An example, on which I would like a comment from the Council of State, is that one can further develop and strengthen existing cultural institutions, like by establishing cultural knowledge clusters around them. It would, in the opinion of the Centre Party, help to increase the potential that exists there in order to achieve a positive development in culture-based economic development. Then I will support what the representative Røbekk Nørve says in his article about the food festival in Ålesund and other things related to food. I note that the representative argues for the Norwegian Food Festival in the same words as the Central Party uses in its remarks in the budget setting. Otherwise, I would like to remind the representative that the Central Party wants the food festival to have a far-reaching financial framework, which was voted against by both the representative Røbekk Nørve and the government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e769	The representative Kristiansen from the Right said that there had never been more money spent on culture in Norway. I want to say that it was just missing – we have never had more money either. On the other hand, the situation is that the municipalities, which are an essential cultural actor — much of the cultural activity takes place there — have an economy that makes, for example, in my home town, Drammen, two large urban libraries, as a server over 20,000 people, have been closed down. We see the same thing happening in Oslo and elsewhere. At the same time, I want to use the opportunity to remind Kristiansen that the biggest investment in that period and the largest growth was due, as Karin S. Woldseth said, the change in the key, which actually makes us get 450 million. kr more a year both for cultural school bags and for other measures, against the Governing Board's votes. The representative Grethe Fossli spoke warmly about his great commitment to Norwegian film, and I think it is nice to see that the Workers' Party is back on track and will Norwegian film the best. But I have to remind the representative Fossli and the Workers' Party that it is not that long since it was those who gave the Government the opportunity to sell and get rid of the film studio at Jar. I don't think there's anything special to be proud of, either for the Workers' Party or for the Government. At the same time, it was nice to talk about how well things are going with Norwegian film, and the good film environment, we are willing to take the chance that someone might think about taking over the only professional film environment in Norway. I don't know if the representative Fossli regrets what the Workers' Party did at the time. I could also imagine asking the government if it thinks that it is a forward-looking cultural policy to put off – one might say – the only Norwegian professional film studio.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e776	It has been interesting to follow the debate here today. I think it has shown a broad consensus on the broad lines and the basic values that we use for cultural policy, especially in the interaction between cultural-based economic activity and culture. The only party that stands out clearly is the Progress Party. The representative, Mr Woldseth, raised the question of whether there were anyone here in the Chamber who could take seriously the Party's cultural policy. I can answer that for myself, and the answer is no. There is nothing in what was presented in the discussion of the cultural message, or what the Progress Party is now dealing with alone in this matter, or some of the representative Woldseth presented in his post, who has convinced me – unfortunately. There is a clear distinction between the Progress Party and the other parties in cultural policy. When discussing the relationship between culture and industry, it is important that we separate cultural policy from business policy, where we also have to address the requirements of profitability and the issue of competitive conditions, etc. Of course, the culturally motivated public contributions that have been made over the years, such as: through the Norwegian Cultural Council, means significant value creation, but we must not get there that these funds should be managed on the basis of, for example, employment effects or profitability. Increased investment in culture and industry will, in our view, not mean much to the extent of public investment in culture. Here, all parties distinguish layers with the Progress Party, which clearly assumes that greater commercial production reduces the need for public action in the field of culture. The right has never claimed that the market is sufficient for the art and culture that we and our society need to be created by the market alone – on the contrary. The need for and the need for diversity and quality imply a strong public commitment regardless of the signals coming from the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e793	First, I record that the Minister of Culture continues to ‘clip, cut’ about the copyright law. Despite the fact that the various organisations are now confident that the fees are in place, the Minister of Culture bases a different interpretation and says that there will be millions here, not to mention billions, of losses. This is a strategy that may bring happiness to the government parties for a few days, but as the fee organizations now say that this will take care of the fees, I think it's quite stillborn. We should have answered the claims earlier, so that the government parties hadn't spread them that far, but we're terribly unfamiliar with election struggles based on untruths. It's imported from the United States. We know that from there. I guess we'll be dealing with that in the next few months. This is probably, or at least maybe, the last major cultural debate in Svarstad Haugland is taking part as Minister of Culture, if it goes the way polls show. We have had a Minister of Culture who has been very active and very visible in areas related to games and machines, where she has even been willing to challenge ESA and the EEA. It is now the main argument, I understand, against the copyright law, that it challenges ESA and the EEA. It is clear that there is different levels of willingness to challenge ESA from a political point of view. She has also been clear in the media policy, including: in matters relating to P4 and NRK. Unfortunately, she has been a spectator and has chosen a part of the role of the brake block in the general field of culture and art. The film budget has been cut. The music has experienced a lack of bet. Literature policy is largely left to the Minister of Competition, and the pop/rock field is also an area where there has been no investment. It is a pity, because the Minister of Culture has a willingness to act whenever she wants, but has not used it in these major fields. That's what we miss -- not the descriptions, not the analyses, not the potential that lies there, but we lack a visionary commitment from the Government to trigger the potential that's there, and say as the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre say, that we want 25 pst. by the audience in Norwegian films, saying that we want to increase Norwegian music exports, get a greater share, as other countries have done, to say that we will make sure that all the talents among young people get a chance to develop. Pop/rock, which is perhaps the most important musical expression for the youth, should, for example, be. have been given a completely different place in our cultural policy. We have a proposal together with the Center Party to build pop/rock centers across the country, which will both take care of the cultural heritage and provide venues and incentives for today's musicians and artists. There would have been one measure on which the government could have been involved. Instead, you choose a passive role and don't put the ambitions that you so clearly have into life. The number of billions to be spent in tax havens is determined. The number of billions to give to research is determined and the defence effort is determined. In the cultural field, you don't do that, and then we know the result: there's going to be little money again – when the big ones go for other purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e804	It is sad that the Right does not take seriously the Christian People's Party's cultural policy. I find it strange, because you can look around cultural life in Norway today and see what the Progress Party, together with various alliances, is doing. You don't have to read the entire film message and the decisions that were made in that regard, to see it. You don't have to travel around the municipalities and see what the cultural school bag means to a lot of children and young people who engage in cultural activities, and who also get professional culture served at school. You don't have to look at the book business agreement, as it exists now, and as Meyer perfectly managed to do in a very egalitarian way. But you can look at the difference that it's obvious between the Right and the Advance Party, and where we separate layers altogether. It's about the definition of what's good culture. For us, it's important that culture whenever possible, that it's for the most people, that it's the width of the culture that we give the people. Even the representative Kristiansen said that volunteers in the municipalities get more out of every cultural crown than the capital culture does. Yeah, that's right. That's why the Progress Party in its cultural programme also says that we want to support the voluntary teams and organisations to pursue a broad-based culture. I think it's sad – I think it's very sad. I also think it is sad that not even the right party, like the tax relief it appears to be, can be with us in the various measures we have proposed in the cultural sector, in order to improve the framework conditions for the cultural sector, for example. different tax incentives and possible deductibility for private investors. Nothing of this will be on the right. Then I wonder who it is that is going to have credibility, and to whom the Right would like credibility, whether it is such that they believe more in the fine culture of the few than in the broad culture of the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e811	The representative Lund Bergo has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e814	In the context of the debate on the Culture Communication, we had a round on the establishment of the experience centre for rock/pop music in Norway and the location of archives. In this connection, an overall increase was decided that the matter should be investigated and returned to Stortinget. Now we have had enough investigation, says the representative Trond Giske, and suggests that we can break now in the middle of the sleep and land on the ball. It looks like it's OK to sneak, just you're a trouser. I find it incredible that the Workers' Party one week before the hearing period with all the stakeholder organisations and those who are actually involved is going out, wanting to make a decision, and that means that what the organisations actually think about this is not interesting to listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e821	The representative Loan has held the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e824	I noticed that the representative Giske used his last post to settle the status of Minister of Culture Mr. Haugland. I have to confess that I reacted a little to the kind of status settlement that was performed here. Among other things, he says that the Council of State has been passive in several areas, not least in the main field of culture, which I will strongly reject and show that, over the four years she has been a Council of State, the Council of State has submitted cultural budgets that, summarized up, far exceed that of some former Minister of Culture in at least ten years. In addition, she has presented a cultural message with perspectives for the entire cultural field over ten years, which, if it is realised, will trigger an increase in government funds approximately at the level of the great Cultural Promise, to which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party refer. Now she has submitted the first big message on culture and nutrition and has made a serious attempt to speed this up. I think the jam is a good idea to claim that she has been passive. I want to do that again and just remind you that in the opposition, surrender is the easiest of all. It comes one day when reality overtakes you.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e831	Now I was very shocked that the last speaker from the Christian People's Party was pleased with the Council of State's cultural policy. That's nice to hear. But what I really took the floor for was to ask the Progress Party a question. Last year, the Progress Party supported the Workers' Party in setting up a pop/rock centre in Trondheim/Namsos, i.e. the Trøndelag alternative, but this year the Progress Party is not supporting and supporting this proposal. I'm actually wondering, what does the Progress Party think about this matter now?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e838	The representative, Sjøli, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e841	It was actually the representative Woldseth himself who asked the question whether there was at all someone in this room who could take seriously the Party's cultural policy. That's what I tried to answer. Based on the debate we had on last year's communication on culture, and on the attitude and comments on this issue, one can see that there is a clear distinction between the Progress Party and the others in the basic perception of what culture is, and what the public contribution should be to both creating a good broad culture and to preserving the narrow culture that is also important to preserve, language, tradition and at all, much of the cultural-historical heritage that we have. There's a divorce, and that's what was my point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e848	First, to the Trøndelag option. That's right. It was not just that we supported the Trondelag option, but we promoted it in the budget as our own proposal two years ago. When is it that ABM-Development has done an investigation, and it deviates from the Trøndelag option? We therefore consider it important that this matter be followed by the normal process and that it be consulted with the parties concerned, and that the Government submits a separate case. That's why we're waiting now, because AMB Development has come up with an alternative. Then to the representative, Sjøli. It is true that I asked if there were parties here in the Chamber who did not take the cultural policy of the Advance Party seriously. But I probably didn't expect that it was the Right who replied that they didn't. It's possible to admit that we're different, that we have different perceptions of things, and that we're different priorities. But from then on not to be taken seriously is quite frustrating. I think that the work on the message we are dealing with today, culture and nutrition, for which I have been the case rapporteur, has been very funny. We've had different perceptions of things, but we've had very good cooperation, too. Therefore, I think it was a bit sad that I was not taken seriously in some way. I wish we could accept that there are differences, that we're different. That's what makes us not two parties in this country, but many. But from then on not being taken seriously is actually a pretty long step.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e857	I would like to link some comments to Birka, who is being set up as a competence centre in Rennebu, with the support of, among others. Innovation Norway. The initiative comes from the very successful Rennebumartnan, which many here are familiar with, and which has now existed for a few decades, with increasing interest and excitement from artists in crafts and crafts. Public interest has also increased significantly. In the last five years, over 20,000 people have visited the Rennebumartnan in three days. The racebumartnan and the artists participating there are known for their good quality, and therefore the martnan attracts so many people. It is this environment and this network, built over the years, that want a centre of expertise to be developed. As has been said before today, these people make important contributions to keeping up with our cultural heritage and further developing it. There's no difference, as I see it, between taking care of this cultural heritage and developing profitable businesses. But in the vast majority of cases, it is about small enterprises, like individual enterprises, or small companies, companies that can have a large potential to reach a market and develop many jobs. There, I believe we need tools to support the further development of these subjects and arts. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee has so clearly stated that the State must take overall responsibility. If you think about different industries, there's often quite a lot of money agreeing to support them. Here we are not talking about so much money, but more about an infrastructure that makes it possible to provide the necessary support and empowerment for these practitioners. Governments know about the project. There may have been quite a lot of concentration on a new barley. I would like to say that the most important thing is to build up the content of the Centre of Competence, and I hope that the Ministry of Culture will show a constructive attitude to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e869	The representative Geske has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e872	I think it is a pity that proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, will not be adopted here today. It would give tens of millions to a bet on pop and rock all over the country. We would have got a national experience center. We would have got a rock centre at Schous in Oslo, with state support, which is necessarily not common in such projects, and we would have got a national competence center for rock support functions in Namsos. A year ago, to some extent, one could say that we have not done enough here, and not everyone has spoken here. Now AMB Development has carried out such a consultation and submitted its recommendation. Then we see it as completely unnecessary to send this out on new rounds. There is only one way to avoid decisions. What I don't understand about the Progress Party is that Per Sandberg could say in the media yesterday that the reason why you can't vote for it is that there are now so many other things that these centers around the country, etc. You still stand on Trondheim and Namsos. That is why I ask that when we come to proposal No. 5, we vote separately over points 1 and 4 before we vote on the rest of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e881	Then the debate on pop and rock centres started again. I just have to begin by saying that even I am very excited about the combination Pop Dunker Bora and Rock City Namsos, but I think it would be a big mistake to adopt it today. We have an investigation that has recently been completed by AMB-Development, which is out for consultation. There are 42 organisations which have not yet been consulted and which have a period of consultation until 20 June. I would say that it had been directly irresponsible to adopt this over the table instead of waiting for them to be heard. One important point here is that the Trondheim alternative and the Namsos option that we have today have been developed over time. It's not that it's the same thing that we had for a year back. That's exactly why it's incredibly important that we wait for the hearing, so that we get a proper process, and do not adopt anything today. There have been quite a number of different arguments in this case, and some of them are quite strange. I note that some people believe that it has to be adopted now, because it is very uncertain what will happen if we wait for the election. Then I would like to remind those who are talking about it, that today it is that the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV – if the SV now end up supporting the Trøndelag option, which I hope – together has an upturn in the Gallup of about 70 pst. It's about adopting this in Stortinget. We're not going to constitutionalize it. So we have two thirds notice, and that's more than enough to be able to base it. So I would encourage the Chamber to vote against the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre on this, so that we can get a proper trial, complete the hearings and get the best possible pop and rock centre after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e890	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2721]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e906	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions of main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e917	On behalf of the members of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, I can say that we are pleased to be able to discuss St.meld. No 16, Live with cultural memories, as it's called so great, before this magnification period is over. It's been 18 years since the last cultural memory was the subject of its own big message, and it's high time that there was a review and strengthening of this subject area. Memories and knowledge of the past will be important when shaping the future. The Storing Communication contains a state assessment that states that if one does not act quickly, significant parts of the country’s main cultural heritage will be destroyed. It's a serious trigger for more political action. But then there is also the Committee's setting up a package of good proposals that will lead to a historical strengthening of cultural memory protection. The Committee fully endorses the proposal to step up financial subsidies for the maintenance, maintenance and restoration of cultural memories by an average of 175 million. kr per. years in addition to the current budget. It'll lead too far to ram up everything, but I think it's coverage to say that all the areas are included. When a single committee is set up, there is a good basis for follow-up by the annual budgets. The majority of the Committee states that Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund should be strengthened by DKK 1 billion over the next four years, with a fund capital of DKK 1.4 billion. In the short term, the Culture Memory Fund has proved to be an important complement to the traditional grant schemes. The Fund develops new and more flexible forms of work between public and private capital. In addition, emphasis is placed on the contribution of projects to development and value creation. There is a great need to improve cooperation between public authorities and private owners and to improve the situation of owners. Owning a cultural memory can be a big gift, but it's also a big task. Restrictions and economic outlays are often burdensome. The Committee stresses the need to improve the balance between the obligations and rights of the owners. The Committee also states that the competence of owners must be valued more strongly. The financial resources are being increased, and the bulk of the population is also asking the Government to investigate the need for compensation rules under the Cultural Memory Act. This together will give the owners a much better situation. Nevertheless, Norwegian cultural memory protection will continue to depend in the future on the many fires that put down an invaluable effort with their own work and resources. The notification also indicates a more positive attitude towards the use of cultural memories. Some old houses and facilities will be able to serve new functions. It also increases the ability to take care of a wider range of cultural memories. A culture memory value generator shall be initialized. The self-design of this is not yet defined, but it's exciting to see what it's like. Very many churches have a precarious need for maintenance and repair, and the municipal owners lack money. A Joint Committee therefore asks the Government to develop a strategy for ensuring a proper level of maintenance for the peaceful and protective churches. The centre party wanted the many culturally historic churches that we have around in all communities to have come under the cultural memory subsidy schemes, so it wasn't. We would also like to have a general exemption from the payment of VAT on goods and services used in works on peaceful and private-owned buildings. Unfortunately, it did not receive enough support in the committee either. Finally, as the rapporteur for the cultural memory message, I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough and solid work. And I can promise – we can see outside the house here today – that there are many who are happy about all the good Roman number decisions in the setting, which will actually make it easier to live with cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e940	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e943	Sectoral responsibility is a comprehensive principle of Norwegian central government which requires the sectors to take responsibility for their territory. It is therefore interesting to note that the central party in the suspension does not wish to participate in asking the Government to develop a strategy for ensuring a sound level of maintenance for peaceful and protective churches if it is built on the sector principle. Does this mean that the Centre Party disregards the sectoral principle of all Norwegian administration, or is it such that this applies only to peaceful and protective churches? For it is the case that in the previous case dealt with in this Chamber, the Centre Party included the following proposal for a decision: ‘The Government requests the submission of a comprehensive sectoral action plan, in which the food and innovation policy instrument is actively used to ensure a better exploitation of the potential of the cross-cutting field between culture and industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e951	The centre party is on the proposal, but we have made a small comment below, where it says: ‘However, the central party considers that the strategy should not only be developed in accordance with the sectoral principle.’ The background is that if only the sector principle was to be taken into account, I would like to see how much money had to be put into a single budget to add it. That is why I think it is important that we think about the sector, but we also need to involve more areas. It has also been added to the message that e.g. The cultural memory fund — and it is expanding a lot now — can take care of some churches. In addition, we know that the Riksantikvaren has its own program for the stave churches. That's very good. I think it is essential that there are many channels; it is necessary for the churches to be cared for. After all, we've got a lag up there for $9 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e961	The representative, Mr. Enger, has done a good job as a case rapporteur, but has, to my disappointment in the setting, merged with SV in criticism of the Government to shift the deadline in terms of the goals of loss of cultural memories. With the experience of the Central Party from the budgetary processes of various Governments and the party's ambition to return to government, the question is whether the representative Enger sees that it is now important to have realistic assumptions and plans to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e966	I think I'm quite realistic, and so it's nice that I'm kind of mentioned in such a context. When we want to shift the goal of maintenance from 2020 to 2014, one might say that it was a little ‘think of a number’, but I think that 2020 was also. The last report on the state of the state of the state of the state stated that an annual loss in 2008 should not exceed 0,5 pst. It's now almost 1 pst. Now you want to move the target to 2020, and we want to meet a little bit halfway and say 2014. I don't think it's that very unrealistic. The Riksantikvar says it's going to cost between 40 and 50 million. kr more to do it like this. It could be in the first place. But at the same time, the maturities are going very fast, and it's clear that it's cheaper to prevent the maturities. It's going to be less to restore.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e973	In the case of Roman numerals II, which also have to be split up during voting, as indicated in the vote, there is an overall committee, all except the Workers' Party, which is in the first part. The other part we don't want to support, simply because it can help to weaken private ownership. And the Progress Party and the Center Party are the parties that have fought most for private ownership here in the Chamber. The central party wants to look at compensation in connection with a NOU that is coming. The recordings we've got so far in the case of the NOU are that they help to weaken private ownership, as shown in our comments in the setting. Why does the Center Party take the chance of weakening private property rights? We have good experience in the fact that this government is doing exactly what it can to weaken private property rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e978	It's true, as Korsberg says, that the Progress Party and the Center Party, in many cases during this period, have come together to fence over private property rights. I also feel that sails if you are in full compliance with this decision, do not go against private property rights, as Korsberg basically puts it in his post. We're going to vote as we have assumed that it's going to be done. So this we might come back to, and I think we'll have plenty of opportunity for that. It's a very long time for the bio-diversity law, to which he is probably aiming, to go up in Stortingen, and we'll come back to it when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e983	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e987	This is an important day for all of us who realize that the past forms the future, and who believe that we and our descendants have much to learn from those who lived before us. For the first time in 18 years, Stortinget has a broad review of cultural memory policy. And to say it carefully: I sincerely hope that it will not be the same for the next time. The time has to pass when cultural memory protection was brought to a standstill or referred to non-committal celebrations. The result of such a non-policy, or indifference, we know: irreplaceable cultural memories disappear, or they decay, among other things. with the result that they are more expensive to restore every year that goes. Now we've got the bill for this on the table, and it's pretty big – both in dollars and cents, but also in terms of lost knowledge, lost experiences and lost opportunities. This applies not only to each of us, but also to the communities we call local and large communities. Our failing sins in cultural memory policy must be the responsibility of all the parties in the Stortinget. For the truth is that none of us, whether we've been in position or in opposition, have been close to proposing appropriations and measures that could really bode well in securing cultural memories for the future. But the better I think it is that a broad majority is now taking joint responsibility for giving cultural memory protection the promise that is necessary. The Working Party will strengthen the place of cultural memory protection in the overall environmental protection policy. We see the message as a real and binding blessing, not least in terms of stepping up the appropriations needed to achieve the national targets in this area – and allow me to say that the Workers' Party has helped to make the escalation plan even more concrete. The Central Party and the Left Party believe that these objectives should be achieved more quickly than proposed by the Government. I have no problem understanding the impatience that this is an expression of. But in the Workers' Party, we are most concerned that the goals can actually be achieved, or, to put it that way, that they are realistic. We want to preserve cultural memories and strengthen cultural memory protection policy, but we do not want to create goals that are such that nothing other than political contempt and broken promises is achieved. There has to be consistency between objectives and instruments, and therefore we find it reassuring that the needs analyses of the Riksantik product are the basis of the Government’s approach. This means not only that the annual grant appropriations must be more than doubled, but also that the competence and capacity of executives must be built up throughout the public cultural memory management, and not least in the municipalities and other important sectors to be implemented. For me it is obvious that it becomes quite demanding, also in time. But as I said, the better it is to know that you have a tradesmanship in your back that believes that it is actually possible. In the public debate, it may sometimes seem that it is almost an accident to be the owner of a peaceful cultural memory. It's true to say pretty bad with my experiences. My impression is rather the opposite: most of the owners I've met are both proud and happy that they are in possession of something very special and valuable. But it does not prevent many of them from wanting more support, both financially and in the form of better access to professionals and information. The Communication presents several measures that will meet these needs. This applies, inter alia, to: training arrangements, the development of knowledge networks and an audience version of the cultural memory database. And last but not least: the financial subsidies must therefore be doubled. All in all, this becomes a boost for the owners, but ultimately also for all of us who have enjoyed the knowledge and experiences that cultural memories can give us. Antiquarian rehabilitation and maintenance often lead to additional costs, at least in the short term. These costs are reasonable for private owners of protected and protected cultural memories to be compensated for. In this context, the view of the Workers' Party is that grants are usually more effective and more verifiable than tax reliefs and claims. Let's say that it's actually like no owner of houses and land in Norway can build and develop properties as we like. Everyone has to deal both with the municipality's spatial plan and with detailed provisions on how we can build and rebuild what we own. Of course. Everything else would be ‘entire texas’ – without any compensation for that reason. That is why we believe in the Workers' Party that the owners of peaceful and protective cultural memories are initially on the same boat as everyone else. We fear that any damages resulting from the next round of rescue can easily undermine much of the basis of the Law on Planning and Building. The Labour Party also sees a clear need to renew the policy of peace, and we think it is good that such emphasis has been placed on this in the communication. To put it the way it is: in this context, we believe that the housekeeper's place is as important as the main farm, and fish farms, industrial buildings and the People's House have the same symbolic value and historical value as pastor's and merchant's houses. At all: the peace policy must reflect our entire history, including the fact that most people – including Samer, national minorities and recent immigrant groups – have contributed to the development of our society. And it's urgent, because these cultural memories disappear at a fast pace, I'd almost said right in front of us. That is why we simply need to take a firm stand for democratising the peace policy. It's e.g. Now, and not in 20 years' time, we have to ensure the cultural memories that testify to how we have evolved from the poor society to the welfare state. Cultural memory protection must be an important part of environmental policy, a policy for which all sectors must take responsibility. I am pleased that this cross-sectoral responsibility is clearly established also in today's position. A logical consequence of this must be that the responsibility for the repair and maintenance of churches lies primarily with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Churches. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that the system of interest compensation and support from the Information Society's fund and increased appropriations from the departments are the natural keys of a comprehensive approach. But a plan is needed. Therefore, we support the proposal to develop an overall strategy for the restoration and maintenance of these churches. With regard to the Cultural Memory Fund, we believe that the main focus should be on all the cultural memories that are important to the community, without the national authorities necessarily defining them as particularly protective from a national perspective. This may apply to most of the cultural memories that most people experience as important in everyday life, including: Because they give places soul and character, if I can say it that way. So here it's more than enough to grab hold of, both for the Cultural Memory Fund and, not least, for municipal planners and politicians. The cultural memory fund has proved to be a great success, which we – as with other successes – are willing to further develop. There is a need for a greater return on funds and for regulatory review, now that it is so large. I am therefore pleased that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, together with the Progress Party, have formed a majority to strengthen the Cultural Memory Fund by NOK 1 billion in the next few years. Many important cultural memory measures across the country will benefit from it. I'm glad that in cultural memory policy, too, it turns out that a new majority in the form of a new, red-green government might do a better job than today's government. Finally, when we rarely or never debate cultural memory policy – as has been the case – we end up being quite introverted and occupied with correcting old sins. I hope it's no longer like this, but that we'll look forward to it. I would like to address the proposals on which the Workers' Party is associated with the SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1023	The representative, Grethe G. Fossum, has drawn up the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1028	First of all, I would like to thank the Labour Party and the representative Fossum for their good cooperation in the context of the cultural memory message. We are united on the main lines of how cultural memory policy should be in the future. For the Right, it's important that we thus also provide predictability, not least to all private owners of cultural memories in this country. Norway is a major coastal nation. Both the Communication and the Committee's position underline the importance of increased focus on different parts of our coastal culture. The working party is part of the majority which, in a comment, states that it is necessary to draw up a national ship protection plan setting out how a representative sample of vessels can be taken care of. However, the government parties on their side refer – in a note where the Workers' Party is involved – to the fact that this is already available through the National Ship Protection Plan. This is a technical basis document drawn up in cooperation with, inter alia: The Ship Protection Association, in order to carry out the necessary assessments and priorities of action in the field. Why does the Workers' Party consider it necessary to draw up a new national ship protection plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1035	I will also be allowed to thank both the rapporteur and the other parties in the Committee for good and constructive cooperation. It's always fun working on things that are interesting, and getting into good cooperation. When it comes to the question from the representative from the right, that's exactly what she's saying. But it is such that a plan drawn up on a professional basis also needs a national status. A national ship protection plan could then have been drawn up, based on the professional plan drawn up by the Riksantikvaren.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1042	It was said that cultural memory policy should be strengthened. Of course, I fully agree with that – that is the whole committee. If we started with the hearings that we had, most of them would do so, and all of them would strengthen it through tax exemptions in the case of privately owned, which include approximately 60 pst. Then the question is, why won't the Workers' Party listen to the advice they get, so that you get a wide protection? I must say that I am disappointed with the Workers' Party, which joins with the government parties in terms of ship protection. We have poor experience with the government parties and ship protection. In the draft budget, they are doing exactly what they can to balance the item – fortunately, we have strengthened it. I wonder why the Workers' Party joins with the government parties to erase the protection of vessels in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1049	The representative of Korsberg is very concerned that you should listen to the advice you get, and then implement it. I have been listening to advice on wolves for quite many years now. This has not wanted to listen to those advices. This is why politicians are free-standing – in relation to the party programme. In the case of the Workers' Party's programme in relation to tax and tax relief – and VAT relief for that matter – we believe that direct subsidies and the law are the best way to bring about development. There may be a difference in relation to the Progress Party, which in every way wants to provide tax relief and tax relief. But it is not certain that you get to the development that you want, however.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1056	Past forms the future, said the representative from the Labour Party, and there are some of them. That's why it's very important that we keep a high pace when it comes to preserving our cultural memory. SV is pleased that the Labour Party is approaching SV in cultural memory policy, and that one is involved in much of what SV has previously been isolated. It's good for the red-green option to the autumn. But it is a challenge that remains. The representative Fossum says that cultural memory disappears at a fast pace. Nevertheless, the Labour Party wants to support this government's lack of ambitious goals when it comes to loss of cultural memory. One therefore accepted the 2020 target. That's why I want to challenge the Workers' Party as coming parties to a red-green government: Would it be a struggle to fight SV and the Center's goal in 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1065	I have to say that I feel that it is a bit strange that future government partners – perhaps – should conduct a conciliation debate or battle-bargain debate from Stortinget’s pulpit. I don't want to. But I can say a little bit about why we have opted for 2020 before 2014. We have done just that, following the recommendation of the Riksantikvaren, that it is okay to grant money, but this does not mean that we get the skills in the craft system that we need to carry out the restoration and the conservation work we are going to do until 2014. We have here, as we do in very many cases, listened to the professional expertise and chose to look at the advice as important and good in terms of getting a good solution by 2020. We think it's better than breaking our promise if we ever get into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1072	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1075	Our cultural heritage gives us the opportunity to put ourselves into a larger perspective. Knowledge of the past gives an understanding of the present and direction of the future. As a society, we have an obligation to preserve cultural heritage for generations to come. It's been 18 years since the last big message on cultural memory policy was presented, and I want to pay tribute to the Government and the Council of State to contribute in this way to revitalising cultural memory policy. The Government proposes a package of measures to apply until 2020 to ensure that the diversity of important cultural memories and environments is limited to a maximum of 0,5 pst. per 1 % years. Many cultural memories are privately owned or belong to different foundations. To take care of this legacy for the future, we depend entirely on the owners being motivated and positive about this. Then it is also important that they feel valued and properly cared for by society. The right is concerned with this aspect, and we are satisfied with several aspects that the message indicates. The grants to cultural memories in private ownership or ownership of foundations shall more than double according to the level of the day. The notification indicates an increase of 175 million. kr per. years and that the increase in that amount shall take place over a four-year period. The initiative will include means to secure, restore and maintain peaceful and sustainable cultural memories and environments. In the case of cultural environments, account must be taken of the fact that buildings are also subject here to requirements that this subsidy item must be able to cover. The cost side of restoration, maintenance and operation or restriction of business opportunities resulting from the peace of an object is provided. I was recently in Ålesund and visited the owner of a peaceful property, namely the King's Gate 10B and 12. After a fire, the owner of the house was required to repair the property according to antique principles. The associated additional costs are estimated at 6-7 million. kr, and not all work has been done. It goes without saying that extra costs of this magnitude represent a great burden for the owner of the house. It is therefore positive that a unanimous committee says that grants should bear in mind the additional costs arising from fires on peaceful and protective buildings. It is important that the owners feel that their rights are being respected and that they have a good dialogue with the protection authorities to be motivated to take care of cultural memories. It is positive that the majority of the Committee agrees that, in future protection processes, it should be mandatory to carry out an investigation to identify the economic consequences of a rescue decision, any changes to the possibilities of economic activity and future resource needs, and that this investigation be carried out in cooperation and dialogue with owners. This can provide the basis for a better and less contentious protection of our cultural memories for the future. The same applies to questions of compensation. I am pleased that a majority of the Committee is asking the Government to examine this further, including the relationship between, among others, the Cultural Memory Act and the Planning and Building Act. In the case of temporary preservation under the Culture Memory Act, there is currently no time limit compared to the time limit for the adoption of a final decision. This means that temporary conservation can exist for many years before final decision is taken, with the consequences this has for the owners – whether it concerns the conservation of brick and mortar, such as at Grünerløkka here in Oslo, or it concerns houses and areas, as in Sogndalstrand in Rogaland. This small coastal community has had temporary peace for 11 years. It goes without saying that 11 years is too long, with the uncertainty and uncertainty this creates for those who have properties in the area. Therefore, it is good that the notification indicates that the Ministry will set deadlines for the implementation of peace processes, including: an absolute time limit within which a permanent settlement case shall begin after an interim decision has been taken. For the Right, it's important to follow this closely. I understand that it may seem difficult to set a standard deadline for the adoption of a final decision. This will probably vary according to the size and complexity of each case. Nevertheless, if not different for each project, it should be considered to have a time frame within which a final decision will be taken. This will make the process more committed to all parties. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of a review of the division of our archaeological sites. The fact that the country is divided into different districts of very different sizes, and that each responsible institution has a monopoly in its own area, makes it necessary to review it from a user perspective. We need a review to see if resources are used in a good and optimal way. Personally, I think that greater transparency and competition between the different actors could contribute to a better use of resources and a better service to those bodies that need to carry out archaeological research in an area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1098	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1102	The Cultural Memory Fund is an important complement to state funding for the preservation of cultural memories, and the Statutes of the Fund state that they should contribute to an interaction between public and private resources to ensure a diversity of cultural memories and environments. It also states that the Fund should stimulate cooperation between owners and businesses, thereby also triggering private capital. This is in the middle of the blink of the Right based on their policy. A former Right-Rapporteur has even been appointed as Chairman of the Cultural Memory Fund. And then right goes against expanding the Cultural Memory Fund by NOK 1.2 billion. Does it not seem to the Right that it is problematic in this case not to support this, which is their policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1109	It is true, as has been said by several speakers today, that the Cultural Memory Fund can show very good results, and that it is an important stimulus to the owners of cultural memories. Now it is that the Cultural Memory Fund was established during this period of government, where the Right has also been in government. I'm very proud that where many people spoke, where the Right and Government acted and set up a cultural memory fund. Then it's enough that when lots are in opposition, it turns out in many cases – including here – that one might have easier to spend money. What the Right and Government warn us is that we want to step up the fund, precisely because we want to strengthen cultural memory protection and the Cultural Memory Fund. But we get the amounts back in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1120	I just want to keep going with the Cultural Memory Fund, which had a return of $13 million. kr. It's not exactly something to shout for. The surplus on the revised state budget was probably NOK 60 billion, so you have a little bit to go on, especially if that's what the representative Meling says, that it has produced very good results. The message also states that this can yield a return of 1 000 pst. I have to say that I am quite surprised that the Right cannot agree to strengthen the Cultural Memory Fund, if it is such that they actually believe that this gives a return of 1 000 pst. I don't think there's anything else you can invest money and get such a return. This will be achieved here in Norway, and in many cases it will be obtained in the districts. So I have to say that I do not understand what the Right thinks about in this case either.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1127	Now, I guess that's how we want to see what we want to see. And the example used in the message, of a return of 1,000 pst. in relation to the effort on a cultural memory, is hardly representative of all cultural memories. At the same time, it is important to have the focus that the message has on the potential for value creation based on our cultural memories. That's why I'm also very pleased with what has been announced in relation to a beauticating program, precisely in order to better exploit the potential of cultural memories, and that this programme should also focus on coastal culture. In the case of a return of 13 million. kr: Yes, even the right would like to see that we had more money at our disposal, but everything is about priorities. What is good is that the message shows that we – not just the Right and Government parties, but the Cross-Political – have ambitions in relation to cultural memory policy in the future. I think that's positive, even though someone is more impatient than others in terms of the fund's construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1136	I noticed that the representative Meling in the reply to the representative Fossum said that when you are in opposition, it is easier to spend money. Now I have noticed that the government parties have been quite good at promising money also in position, more specifically for tax bills. A lot of billions of crazy people are going to be thrown into the tax havens. It states that ‘for every krone that public invests in the maintenance and rehabilitation of culturally valuable environments, ten dollars will return to society’. Furthermore, it states that ‘historical building rehabilitation creates 26 per cent more jobs than motorway construction’. Given the fact that there are 100,000 unemployed in Norway, it might be interesting to ask the representative Meling whether employment is important for the government parties, or whether it would be preferable to give tax incentives to the wealthiest in the country. Here you have a golden opportunity to increase employment by focusing on cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1141	Now, the results of the Government's policy show that it helps to have a sensible economic policy also in relation to employment, at a time when the arrows point out both the performance of enterprises, employment and the growth of production. This is due not least to the economic policy of this government. It is true, as has been said, that a bet within the cultural memory field has ring-fences in value creation and employment. It's an important aspect. Cultural memories are important in relation to the past, understanding of the present and signals for the future that in a way are not directly related to economics. But at the same time, the economic value creation potential is important. So once again, we want to strengthen the Cultural Memory Fund. The Government and the Right do not signal anything else. I still want to claim that the examples show that it is easier for an opposition to spend money than for government parties in responsible positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1150	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1153	It is interesting to hear that there are two types of money – those that you have when you are in opposition, and those that are obviously missing when you are in position. There can be a lot of weird politics out there. But investing in cultural memories is important, because if you do, you get a strengthening of cultural memories across the country. That is good district policy in a positive way, because it is reaching the whole country. And in a lot of places, it's important that you do just that in order to get a boost that also helps to make a living in those areas where you can do it. Especially important is since 60 pst. of the protected buildings are privately owned. At least the progress party is committed to enabling the private owner to care for its buildings. That is why I am pleased that there is a majority for a number of the proposals that lie here today. But of course, I'm also disappointed that you can't get a majority in order for the state to cover the cost of excavating automatically peaceful cultural memories, because there are a lot of people who own these, who have to take great financial burdens – that you couldn't get a majority just to bring this matter up. I have to say it disappoints me. The same applies to VAT exemptions. It is also a contribution that would strengthen the preservation of private cultural memories, so it is disappointing. Then to the Cultural Memory Fund: When it was established in its time, the Progress Party was against it. We thought that the best way to preserve private cultural memories and memories in general was to do so through the tax system. But we're recording that it's a majority of this fund. And if you're going to have any effect on such a fund, you also have to spend so much money that it has any purpose. The 13 million puzzles that have so far been granted are far too small. That's why we didn't have any problems going in secondary and supporting the increase in this fund, so you get a good return. And then it'll be interesting to look after the election if this government continues. If it does, at least we have to make sure that it is implemented. If the government changes, it is possible that the socialist majority has less advice. That would be sad. We have experience with this government in the field of cultural memory protection. I have to go back to one of my captors. It's the ship's protection, where I've fought a lot to get increased appropriations. I have to say that I was quite provoked when the government presented the state budget and had reduced a post that the Progress Party had been set up in the last year's budget. But at least I'm glad that I got the government parties to step up that post from $14 million. NOK 29 million. kr. What's important in the future, no matter what government you have, is to maintain the minimum level, preferably to increase it, in order to maintain some of the ships you have here in the country. So the representative, Enger, said in his reply to me about the Biomangfolding Commission and getting a replacement scheme for cultural memory protection, that fortunately it was a long time before the Biomangfolding Act came up in Stortinget. That means that the centre party does not give priority to getting a clarification on this matter. I think that's pretty sad. But you have an opportunity here in Stortinget to do something about it later through private billing. What I think you should take over from the big crowd is that you have to listen more to the private actors. That's what we found in the hearings we had. I have to say I'm a little disappointed with the Workers' Party, who can't listen to what's being said and bring along the recordings that are coming, but think it's just the state that can fix it. So the tax system ensures the entire width of the cultural heritage, not just through funds where you can be involved and pick out a single project, but you can get the whole piece with you. That is why we believe that the tax and tax system is the right way to go, in addition to VAT, which I mentioned earlier. There is a great deal of agreement in this matter. At least the Party of Progress shall ensure that it strives to follow up on this in the best possible way in the future, even if other parties have other means they will use if they come into position. Finally, I would like to address the proposals we have with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1172	The representative of Korsberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1177	In the Workers' Party, we are pleased with the support we have received from the Progress Party to increase the Cultural Memory Fund by NOK 1 billion in the next period. For the Workers' Party, it's very important to show that willingness in relation to the fact that you're going to bet on preserving our cultural memories, and so we've already announced that we're going to add 200 million. kr now in the revised budget to start the escalation which the Progress Party is thus at the beginning of this message. So my question is really whether the Progress Party will also ensure that this is followed up in the review of the revised budget, or whether it is actually so that the Progress Party has two different forms of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1184	For us in the Progress Party, it is important that we do not have a budgetary procedure twice a year. So, revised is a revision of the state budget, and we're dealing with the exact part that you have a revision of the budget. It's not like we're doing what maybe some other parties are doing, putting in some new measures to have a so-called good election budget to assume. We are dealing with a revision of the budget, and we are taking great steps in the ordinary budgetary procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1190	I am very pleased with the support of the Progress Party for many offensive and good proposals in dealing with this communication. At the same time, I record that the progressing party in some things may be a little ambiguous, not to say winged. On the one hand, the Advance Party is offensive in relation to ship protection – and very good there. On the other hand, page 7 of the Committee setting says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, feels that it is dramatic when the message says that significant parts of the country’s main cultural heritage will be destroyed if one does not act quickly.’ So the Progress Party does not think it is dramatic that the message says that ‘essential parts of the country’s most important cultural heritage will be destroyed if one does not act quickly’. What makes the protection of vessels and the protection of other cultural heritage so different? What's so negative if a ship goes down, but not if a building goes down?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1200	“Dramatic” is a pretty strong word. The situation is not new. Cultural memory protection has not appeared entirely at random in this matter; it has been dealt with through the annual budgetary procedures. We've said what we think about that situation in that way, in the same way that all the other parties have done it. Without me remembering exactly what SV has said in connection with this matter, it has probably not been used in such strong words. As far as ship protection is concerned, there is a special situation. The process of losing this cultural memory is much faster than it is in the case of a building. A building has longer time to restore and maintain. This is not the time for protecting vessels, and Norway is a maritime nation — for so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1212	I would like to continue building up the fund. I am very pleased that the fund that this government presented gets so much attention in this debate. The fact that we're going to build this up gradually is something the government is behind. What we're skeptical about is numbing in the processing of a message, which we believe is basically a matter of budgetary consideration. But I want to ask Korsberg a question in relation to a strange constellation that this majority represents. To what extent does Korsberg realistically believe that this is a majority that will be reflected in the budgetary context when real budgets are to be provided? He has already questioned whether the Workers' Party has so much money when they come into government, so he has raised doubts about those who are behind this majority proposal. How realistic, then, does Øyvind Korsberg think that this really is, even though it has a good intention?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1221	When it comes to following up the Cultural Memory Fund, I'm not going to answer for the other parties that make up the majority, but I'm going to answer for the Progress Party, and that's that we're going to follow it up. But when that is said, I am much more in doubt as to whether the Government is going to follow up the policy adopted today by the Stortinge. We have a number of examples of the fact that not only the Minister for the Environment, but also a number of other ministers have not followed up the policy adopted by the Stortinget. But at least I'm just going to guarantee myself. Of course, the Progress Party must follow up the policies we stand for, and I count them to the extent that other parties do too. But what makes me a little bit unsure is the representative Siri A. Meling, who tells me that there are two types of money here. You have some money when you're in opposition, and then you don't have that money when you're in position. It's interesting to know if there was going to be a government shift and the Right would come in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1228	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1231	We are all happy that a cultural memory message was finally presented. At the same time, we in SV believe that the message is not ambitious enough and that it was a great room for improvement. We are therefore very pleased that we are making decisions in this Chamber today that increase the level of ambition compared to what was presented in the communication. When this message was presented, the current government had three and a half years to deal with cultural memory management in Norway. The message reads on page 16: «The instruments, in particular economic instruments, have so far been far from adequate. The necessary maintenance, refurbishment and documentation has therefore had to be postponed. The result is that the state of important cultural memories is worse than it was when the national targets were set in 2000.’» The government's policy has thus led to a great downfall among cultural memories. The cultural memory message provided is therefore important and necessary, but it is also evidence of a lack of effort in the three years of the Government’s power and ability to do something. For SV, it is of particular importance to take care of our cultural memories. I remember that when I went to Trondheim Cathedral School, we could take a break from the historical and religious hours and take a trip over to Nidarosdom to see what things were actually like before, instead of reading about it in a book. A glass painting or a statue is far more impressive to see in reality than to read about in a book. Experiences from museum visits and excursions to cultural memories are much better planted on the Internet than teaching in the classroom. In fact, SV's school policy is dependent on good cultural memory management, so that students can get out and see what things were like before, instead of hearing about it in a classroom or reading about it in a book. I think there's a lot of people who find that this gives more education than a disciplining doggy school. Hallgeir H. Langeland from SV was the case rapporteur when the Stortinget in 2000 dealt with St.meld. No 8 for 1999-2000, on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the State. That was when the proposal for the Government to promote a proposition on the establishment of the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund was adopted. The Fund was established in the context of the review of the 2002 revised national budget. I am very pleased that today we are adopting an obliging escalating plan so that the fund's capital can rise to NOK 1.4 billion over the next majority period. Then hopefully we'll start approaching the 100 million. kr in return as NOU 2002:1, “Forture Shapes for the Future”, recommended. Today's decision is therefore a big victory for SV, given the important work we did to get this fund in place. But what surprises me a little bit is that the government won't help commit itself more in this area. The message says that feedback indicates that the fund has been a success. In addition, there is a high level of commitment from the cultural memory stakeholders to a strengthening of the Cultural Memory Fund. Fortunately, today we are supported by the Progress Party. It is a little surprising, as the Progress Party was opposed to the creation of the fund when this was contested, both in 2000 and 2002. That's why I think the safest thing for these appropriations to actually come is that we get a new red-green government for the harvest, as we have committed ourselves to this in the decision. It was not only the proposal for the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund adopted in 2000 in the context of the examination of the Communication on the State of the State of the State of the Environment, but at the same time it set national objectives for the cultural memory area. By 2004, the geographical, social, ethnic and temporal breadth of permanently protected cultural memories and environments should be improved; by 2008 the loss of cultural memories and environments should not exceed 0,5 pst. annually, and by 2010 the normal maintenance level was to be achieved on peaceful buildings and installations. These objectives were, in fact, proposed by the Bondevik I Government and were adopted in the context of the review of the State of the State of the State Communication for 1999-2000. The new bigotry message, Life with cultural memories, significantly weakens this level of ambition. The government is now proposing to postpone the achievement of all these targets by 2020 – 15 years ahead. In 2014, the Constitution will be 200 years old. Ensuring these goals by 2014 will be an excellent birthday punch to give the Norwegian people, and fortunately it wants both the SV and the Centre party. This, of course, will require a big effort. According to the Ministry of the Environment, it will cost 50 million. kr extra annually. But this is small money compared to many of the other investments this committee is dealing with, especially in the oil sector. At the same time, we know that restoring cultural memories is more expensive if you wait too long, because they are then due. Not least, we know that these are investments that pay off, both in terms of returns and in terms of employment effects. The government itself writes in the following message: ‘For each krone that public invests in the maintenance and rehabilitation of culturally valuable environments, $10 is returned to society.’ In addition, it says: «The rehabilitation of historical buildings creates 26 per cent more jobs than motorway construction». We know that there are lots in this hall that want to lay down the Bergensbanen to build the four-field highway. Perhaps investing in cultural memory habilitation will be a better strategy? At least it will create more jobs. With regard to competence problems compared to achieving the target by 2020, it may well be that there will be a problem. But I don't know about a lot of educational courses that last for more than nine years, where you choose education for the first year. I believe that if you choose to have a goal to achieve this by 2014, it will probably lead to the creation of good education, so that more people will have the necessary skills, and that we will be able to get a boost for the cultural memory area. It is important not to reduce our ambitions in relation to ship protection. Norway has been an important maritime nation, and we have many important vessels to take care of. It is well known that the protection of vessels has major repercussions in terms of workplaces, and the Government presented a case on the employment impact of taking care of old steel boats in the context of the revised national budget for 2005. The voluntary sector is incredibly important to preserve our cultural memories. Very many cultural memories are owned and managed by non-governmental organisations. These organisations have a large mass of members, and the work done on a voluntary basis involves a cheap way to preserve protective cultural memories. There is also great competence in these environments. It is important that this competence is further developed. In this context, the training work done by the study associations is crucial. The current government has not been accustomed to increasing the appropriations for these measures. SV will have increased bets because this training is effective, cheap and necessary. Given the treatment of this cultural memory message, there is little doubt that the best thing for cultural memories in Norway is that we will have a new, red-green majority for the autumn. SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are united on many ambitious proposals and comments. We agree on the increase in the Cultural Memory Fund, we agree on the commitment to the activities of study associations in relation to cultural memory training, we agree to review the consequences of the lapse of the right of deduction for expenditure on the maintenance of residential buildings on farm, and we agree to use the proceeds from the Information Society's fund for church maintenance. We've already got a red-green cultural lift in place. The treatment of this message shows that we've got a red-green cultural monument lift. Cultural memories are not only old buildings that tell exciting stories, they're also workplaces, they're business development, and they're competence building. The SV working party, the SV business party and the SV training party are taking responsibility today and are trying to help make even more people live with cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1274	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1277	I hear that the SV representative has an increased level of ambition in the field of cultural memory protection, and that is why SV – and the Central Party – have also been committed to speeding up the objective of minimising loss of annual cultural memories, from 2020 to 2014. I understand the impatience, I understand the attempt to save cultural memories. The working party would like to do so, but politics is not just about wanting to do it, it also depends on the feasibility of implementing it. The representative spoke of a lack of competence of nine years. But it's actually that in this area it's not just school education that helps, it's also experience. It could be so important. Therefore, I would like to ask the SV representative whether he is absolutely sure that this objective of cultural memory protection can be achieved. Or are we faced with another broken promise policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1282	Politics is not just wanting, as the representative Grethe Fossum said, politics is also prioritizing, and precisely priority will be crucial to whether we are able to achieve these objectives. I would remind you that when the original targets were established in 2000, there was a time horizon of four, eight and ten years to achieve them. Now you want a 15-year time horizon to achieve all three goals. It is a heavy downgrading of ambitions. We believe that it will be entirely possible to achieve this by 2014, just that it is heavily invested in it. In view of the choice of the harvest and, hopefully, the victory of the new red-green alternative, it is likely that the Workers' Party will decide whether these objectives can be achieved by 2014. But I hope we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1287	I think we'll continue a little bit on the same thing. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are, as you know, joining the Government's objective of a cultural memory action package, with a target achievement in 2020. We do that because we think this is a realistic goal. Now we've heard SV, which goes in order for the same goal to be achieved by 2014. The professional recommendations of the Riksantikvaren are completely ignored by SV. He has, as he knows, shown a need analysis, and is also based on realistic goals of building up this competence. So it's not just the economy and the monopoly money that SV always has that goes into here. It could be exciting to hear what kind of solutions SV has, as the Riksantikvaren has overlooked.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1295	I would like to point out first that SV does not have monopoly money, for example. to tax relief for the richest, which some other parties in this room have. The SV still believe that it will be possible to achieve this by 2014, as long as priority is given, only strong enough. I want to repeat what I said before, that when the targets were adopted in 2000, there was a much shorter time horizon. This must mean that an incredibly poor pre-work had been done at the time when a total increase had taken on the targets in 2000 which had a shorter time horizon. We are convinced that this will be possible. Just as we give a strong enough priority, we will have a big effort and a great 200-year lead for the Norwegian people in connection with the anniversary of the Constitution in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1302	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1305	In the Culture Memory Communication, the Government presents an ambitious and realistic package of measures to ensure the absence of important cultural and cultural memories for the future. We have a great responsibility to manage cultural memories in the eyes of those who have lived before us, and to care for those who come after us. At the Christian People's Party's national meeting, the value of caring for cultural heritage and cultural values was well highlighted. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to produce this cultural memory message, and I am pleased that a representative selection of cultural memory is now to be given permanent protection through peace. It's going to follow money with this big effort on cultural memory. Contributions to peaceful cultural memory, which is eight of private or of foundations, shall be increased by an average of 175 million by stepping up over four years. kr per. years. in addition to today's budget. In addition, the contribution to cover expenditure on archaeological work resulting from the implementation of less private actions shall be increased by up to 21 million. kr. per 1 % years. This chapter of the message has an important role to play, and individuals are now able to work together to preserve valuable cultural memories that are in their private ownership. At the start of a peace process, it should be mandatory to create a settlement that sheds light on the costs resulting from the peace decision. The Labour Party has a different formulation than the Plural, but I understand that the intentions are the same. Too often there has been disharmony, not to say conflicts, between private owners of cultural memory and the public. No one's ever started these conflicts, and usually it's cultural memory and we want to pay attention to these cultural taxes, which are the losers. In accordance with professional advice, the government has put forward a realistic plan to be in force until 2020 to minimise the loss of cultural memory. This includes: the provision of additional training and point skills for skilled craftsmen. SV and the Center Party will not follow this recommendation, but believe that the plan must be implemented by 2014. The cultural memory fund will increase from 200 million in the revised 2005 budget. NOK 400 million. kr, and the initial capital of the fund shall be increased incrementally, in addition to ordinary grant items. There is a great lag in the maintenance of the churches, and the extra privileges that come will provide an historic boost for the maintenance and rehabilitation of the churches. The Riksantikvaren's project to restore all the spelling churches in Norway over a decade is an overly important highlight for these cultural memories. In addition, through its sectoral responsibility, the State shall develop a strategy on how all peace and protected churches, under this medieval stone church, can be guaranteed a defensive level of maintenance. I am pleased with the enthusiasm this has given for the whole country. In my home country, Hordaland, there are many who have worked with eight and ag for the rehabilitation of etc. The Church of Mary in Bergen and the Old Church of Moster. The five sites/objects on the UNESCO World Heritage List are highlighted and have received a review that would provide a good basis for securing these cultural memories. The national anti-personnel protection plan will provide a good professional basis for securing and restoring a representative selection of this kind of cultural memory. Let me get the benefit of stressing the superfluous work of hard work carried out for the benefit of ship protection and coastal culture. Based on the Technical and Industrial Cultural Memory Plan and the outline of this plan, the Committee concludes with the strategies presented in the message within this area. I would particularly like to mention the fact that the restoration of the Norwegian Watercourse and Industrial City Museum in Tyssedal is fully financed by the 2005 revision of the budget. In addition to what is stated in the message, the Committee has been co-consulted to give its own review of the Reperbans, among others. the 340-metre-long track in Bergen, which is the longest in the Nordic region. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Stortinge today provides the basis for setting goals to secure and rehabilitate valuable cultural memories and environments that we cannot afford to miss.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1337	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1340	To a previous reply today from Grethe Fossum, the representative Siri Meling said that the government parties would increase the Cultural Memory Fund, but she would not figure it out. To another line, from me to the representative of Korsberg, Korsberg said that they do not deal with the budget twice a year, and therefore they could not support the Workers' Party's proposal to increase the Cultural Memory Fund by 200 million. kr now in the revised budget. The Government has introduced an increase in the Culture Memory Fund into the revised budget. So it's OK for the Progress Party when the Government does, but not when the Workers' Party makes a suggestion about it. I think that's a little disappointing. My question to Mr Liones' representative will be: will the Christian People's Party follow up the proposal we have promoted to the revised budget in relation to increasing the Cultural Memory Fund, in order to show the positive will needed to increase this fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1349	What is important is to emphasise the will that has been expressed to increase the Cultural Memory Fund, and the Government and the Minister for Environmental Protection have clearly shown that we are serious about that commitment. It might also be interesting to speed up the processing of the revised budget, but that is not what we have on the agenda. Therefore, it would be wrong to go into the details of how to get multiples, if it happens like a package, or if it happens when you run out of time. But we must not lose sight of the clear objective. I'm very happy that there's such a shared willingness to increase the Cultural Memory Fund, so that we can get a real boost to tackle the rehabilitation and restoration of important cultural memories. It's pretty easy that when we get enough funds, it also stimulates the private to go in. We'll have a good cooperation and dialogue, and I'll make sure we follow up. Now there's a suggestion for $1 billion. We don't know the basis. Maybe there's a need for more than that. Then it's very possible that we can join in and raise the sum of the extras.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1358	Let's stay a little bit longer in the revised budget. I understand that the representative Lioness cannot foreshadow what the Government will deal with by various proposals. But what I expect, on the other hand, is that he can defend the government's budget proposals, which have come. That's going to add up to 200 million. extra to the Cultural Memory Fund, which of course is very fortunate, but it has no budgetary impact until 2006, it is only when the payments will come. What has also happened in the context of the revised budget is that the Government has submitted a proposal to cut NOK 120000 in the operation of the Riksantikvaren. How does this relate to the proposal for an increase of 175 million. Over four years? Is that how the Government will follow up this ambitious escalation plan, by cutting the operation of the Riksantikvaren?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1367	The replica was two - part. I did well for how we evaluate the escalation of the Cultural Memory Fund. Let me draw your attention to the fact that when we get the strategy plan to be put forward to preserve cultural memory, for which the Committee is in agreement, it will show whether there is a need for an increase in cultural memory, perhaps in addition to both DKK 1 billion and DKK 1.4 billion, if that is the most likely. It will depend on the level of interest rates, and it will depend on the general economic situation. But what's certain is that this is where we're going to bet. I'm glad that so many people see the value of just this bet. When this applies to the budgetary procedure, it cannot be accelerated. That might be interesting, and it's clear we're in the discussions there, but our starting point is, of course, that we support the government's policy. It was interesting reading to go through the submitted to the revised budget, and that is what we are prepared to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1378	No one else has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1381	The law of antiquities was one of the first laws of a collective free magnification passed in 1905. She was the author of the law of cultural memory, which came in 1920. The Storting saw the cultural heritage as an important bearer of traditions and important to the country's identity. A country's identity is made up of many pieces, where art, music and literature are important berebels. This art, literature and music is about cultural memory that we know today. From Asbjørnsen and Moe's adventure of Soria Moria Castle to Knut Hamsun's Isak Sellanraa in "Markens Grøde", the very symbol of the Norwegian will to survive. We must not forget the music, which is also an excellent foundation, from Edvard Grieg's world-renowned tones from Peer Gynt Suite to familiar tones from hardening errors and playthings. All of these tones, expressions and images of old houses, grass on the roof and tar-wide walls are what we call our cultural heritage. This amazing legacy we cultivated last night during the hundred year's marking. We Nordics like to take the cultural heritage for granted. By doing that, we can lose the girlfriend we have, that's our identity. St.meld. No 16 is a good tool to take care of our identity. The government announces a range of legal and economic measures to strengthen cultural memory protection. The Left is pleased that the Government emphasises the importance of making a significantly greater financial effort and fair distribution of the costs of peace and protection. We are also pleased that the Government also attaches importance to coherence in relation to the environment, including the relationship between culture and nature. The fact that the government also pays greater attention to cultural memory and environment as resources for knowledge and nutrition is a matter of great concern to the Left. 100 years ago, this was a great deal and showed the way into a new era. Let's also get a real and good cooperation with the owners who fit our cultural taxes. The cultural heritage, like the inheritance glass, is a sheep of their parents, not their own, one that has them borrowed for the next generation, and one that looks after them. The owners are the ones who fit our glasses, our cultural heritage. Through this period of government, the left has done a great deal for culture and nutrition, and for the owners of cultural treasures to have a chance to develop their places. The left has always thought new before primary nutrition, then about 80 pst. the cultural heritage is in the primary industry. Primary nutrition is under conversion and owners cannot be expected to be able to do this job on their own. The state is a large owner of cultural memory, and has a special responsibility to take care of them. Left Minister of Agriculture, Lars Sponheim, has among others. set up a series of measures in the field of niche production and branding of agricultural products, and facilitated the halling and marketing of experiences and cultural memories. Cultural memory is traced by our ancestors their lives and acts that can still be seen and experienced in our surroundings. We have an obligation to pass on the knowledge of our past. The left is well pleased with the government's work to secure our cultural heritage, but I want to elaborate a few points on what Left wants to happen further. Left wants to strengthen the total rights of cultural memory protection and increase the added value, and hence the return, of the Cultural Memory Fund. The left will also allow the return of Norwegian cultural memory funds to be used as a contribution/loan for cultural memory projects. Cultural objects should, as far as possible, be found in the local environment in order to understand and experience them in the context in which they were created. Road and communication history should be strengthened by providing public means for the protection of railway installations/operating equipment, ships and port facilities, and coaches and road transport facilities that are protected, or of high value both for the local environment and on a national basis. Left will decentralize most decisions. At the same time, there are major national cultural tasks in which responsibility should be taken nationally. Medieval churches and other cultural institutions of protection must be able to maintain their defences in order to ensure lasting protection for the future. The left will look at schemes and laws that today deal with responsibility for securing archaeological findings. It should not be the case in Norway today that a landowner has to pay large sums to the state because he has reported an archaeological finding on his own property. Today's laws can therefore be seen as inadequate and create accidental expenses for landowners. Before selling heritage of cultural heritage or other great common good, the State must be in dialogue with the local authority or state in order to identify needs and possibilities for future exploitation. Where private buildings are being protected, the public should, in the opinion of the Left, as a general rule, take on the economic burden of peace. The left is well pleased with the efforts made by the Government. We want to move on. Finally, of course, the Left supports all comments and suggestions from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1419	That's the president's guess!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1423	We need to step up efforts to ensure the future-oriented and efficient management of cultural memories and environments. I'm glad that the red-green parties are now joining forces and providing a majority for a strengthening of the Cultural Memory Fund by NOK 1 billion in the next majority period. It is of course assumed that the people will give us the opportunity to do so through the elections on 12 September. With such a strengthening of the Cultural Memory Fund, many projects in the coming years will be allocated funds – projects that are otherwise in danger of disappearing and disappearing for all time. As an old maritime nation, Norway has a rich history to take care of. It is therefore important to keep a representative sample of the vessels and boat types that were common along our Norwegian coast. We must continue to aim to maintain a range of vessels that are representative of Norway as a maritime nation – both foreign, coastal and inland. Some 180 older vessels currently have protective status through voluntary agreements with the Riksantikvaren. Antiquarian protection of vessels requires knowledge of older craft techniques. Specific restoration projects have built up a number of craft skills at the three national ship protection centres we have in Norway. So the protection of ships is an important part of the work of caring for our unique maritime cultural history and coastal culture. We in the Workers' Party notice that the notice does not indicate a reduction in the level of ambition within the protection of vessels, and assumes that this is correct. Bredalsholmen Dock and Vessel Protection Centre in Kristiansand is a national ship protection centre for protective vessels built in steel. At the centre live several old craft techniques are kept connected to steelship construction. Active use of the old dry dock from 1876 with adjacent workshop buildings, berths, cranes and other technical devices contributes to the protection of the plant as a technical and industrial cultural memory. More than 30 people have their daily work in the center. Bredalsholmen is an important resource in the field of vulnerable craftsmanship and depends on a minimum staffing to ensure the diversity of disciplines necessary to restore complex steel ships and maintain adequate antiquarian restoration work. The main mission of Bredalsholmen concerns the protective steel vessels supported by the Riksantikvaren, and the volume of the mission in 2005 underpins a reduction of about 10 %. Two million. kr. Bredalsholmen is therefore facing permitations. The working party has, through regulatory changes, ensured that workers in the yard are at least given leave. But this is not enough. The workers at Bredalsholmen are enthusiastic. Of course, they want the projects they are working on to be completed according to the plans available. We have received a letter from the yard showing that they were promised more money than they received in the revised national budget. That the government does not follow up promises from its own professional bodies, is regrettable and should not occur. This is also very unfortunate in national contexts, as the continuity of the antique work is broken and the maintenance of the old craft can be weakened. It is therefore important also to provide the ship protection centres with a framework which implies a certain degree of long-termity and not to lower the level of ambition in terms of ship protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1446	In two weeks it is today 100 years since the first cultural monument was debated in this Chamber. At that time it was a matter of establishing a law that could protect archaeological cultural memories and ruins from prehistoric times and from the Middle Ages. Today, we are to adopt the course and a cultural memory policy action plan until 2020. All groups of the population shall use cultural memories as sources of knowledge, experience and well-being. This is the basis for the new cultural memory policy that the Government is now presenting. The government is busy with culture having a self-esteem and is decisive for the development of the personality and quality of life of the individual human being. Cultural memory and the cultural environment are concrete evidences of people's lives through the ages and their actions. They are irreplaceable sources of knowledge about the historical evolution of the environment and society, about human relations and the relationship between man and nature. In this way, the cultural memory acts as a cuckoo into history, with great value for man. Cultural memory and the cultural environment are also important environmental values. They are not renewable resources. If they are destroyed or removed, they are permanently lost. Every year important cultural memory disappears, while others fall or are destroyed over time. The government has stressed the importance of producing an honest message about how cultural memories and the cultural environment of the country stand, and what we should do about it. The analysis underlying this message shows that the situation is alarming. The government presents an action plan and a package of measures to improve the situation. We will meet the different environmental objectives of the message by 2020. 2020 is the most optimal time frame for implementing the actions in a professionally defended manner and for building up adequate skills and capabilities. This means that the annual allowances must be increased by 175 million. kr. I am very pleased with the broad connection that Stortinget has given to this. When we're abroad as tourists, we like to visit familiar and often dazzling monuments. In this country, it is mainly the lack of cultural memory and environment from different times that characterize the landscape, towns and cities. This lack of cultural memory and environment has only exceptionally some formal protection. They are taken care of because the owners and users care about them and ensure them through day-to-day operations, care and maintenance. The government proposes that this kind of cultural memory and environment should form the basis for different activities in living communities throughout the country. The government will stimulate the drawing of larger parts of this cultural heritage than has been the case up until now, and it will be better adapted to our own time. The government wants it to appear as a resource that will be used in new ways and form the basis for a live community and value creation programme. Norway’s long coastline of over 21,000 kilometers is quite unique in a global context. As a visible proof of the values of the coastal landscape, last year Vega was listed as the world's most diverse cultural and natural heritage, and Norway has nominated Geirangerfjorden and Nærøjorden as the World Heritage List. The coast has, through history, been particularly important for the construction, commercialisation and living conditions of this country. In spite of this, coastal culture has been seriously neglected in cultural memory throughout the 20th century. So I'm going to do something about it right now. The cultural memory policy of the Government is based on the fact that cultural memory has its own value and is an important resource. With this message, the Government is the first to be able to raise cultural memory policy on the agenda, giving it economic priority and a long-term perspective. Those who live today are obliged to administer cultural memories with respect for those who have lived before us, and with consideration for those who come after. A hundred years ago, national responsibility for securing cultural memories as a scientific source was emphasised. Today, the government is suggesting that one should also use cultural memories in new ways, so that they can give new knowledge and experiences to people in all population groups. Norway has always received monthly cultural impulses from outside. The government wants cultural memory policy to reflect the diversity of multicultural society. The stories that are told through cultural memory and the cultural environment shall help to document the diversity of the population and the long lines of the country's history and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1470	The setting on page 12 reads: «At the same time, the Committee considers that, through its sectoral responsibility, the State must also contribute more financially to the maintenance of other culturally valuable churches, including medieval stone churches.» Since the church is a major cultural storyteller in our society, it is important to make it tell. My experience is that when a department is to be responsible, it is possible to get things done. When two departments get together, it’s difficult – and when three departments do, it’s impossible. Here are three departments that are in and that are going to increase the government's funding for churches. How does the Minister for the Environment intend to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1481	I'm very busy with the churches we have, and I've also noticed that in the setting, monthly emphasis was placed on the churches. I'm glad. They have a very important cultural memory meaning for our country. There is also a group committee that points out that we want a strategy to take care of them. But at the same time, I am busy securing the sector responsibility that lies here. I think it's important to take care of our churches. We see today that we have challenges associated with this. But I think that the sector responsibility that lies here must be taken into account. I also noticed that the representative pointed out earlier in the debate just what sectoral responsibility must be on the basis of. I believe that this strategy will enable us to take better care of the churches, and will, of course, follow up what the Committee has asked of me.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1490	The council said he had stressed the need to get an honest message. Then, of course, you can ask the question: What about the other messages that have been submitted? I'm not going to do that. But at least I'm glad that he's given me an honest message, and then I might also get some honest answers to what I'm going to ask about. The Council of State was also concerned with this with economic priority. Then you can ask why you should believe more in the Government now than at the time of the submission of the State budget. Because it was not exactly a strengthening of the cultural memory protection the Council of State did there, when he razed the post of ship protection. It is also stated in the message: «The annual follow-up will depend on the budgetary situation.» Then you've been sacrilegious. Then I just want to ask: if you want to experience a breakdown in cultural memory protection, you want to experience a continuation or you want to experience a strengthening – not in words, but in concrete means? That's actually the money this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1506	It's actually a great pleasure to be able to say that we're standing here in front of a historical extension of the foundation on which we're going to build our cultural memory. Today the bets are doubled – there is therefore an annual extra bet of 175 million. in the action plan set out here. We know that today's supplements are below that level, so it's going to be a doubling. I would also like to refer to the 2005 budget, where it increased the contribution to cultural memory. But it's clear that in the years to come, we'll see a much stronger increase, and that's because we've submitted a message that we're going to follow up. So it's a historical investment of 175 million. kr – a doubling – and it is the government proud to be able to present.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1513	I noticed that the Council of State said that cultural memories are irreplaceable sources, and that it was found that the situation for cultural memories was alarming when a need analysis was carried out. The objectives of the cultural memory area were adopted in 2000, so the current government has had almost four years to follow them up. Why hasn't anything happened before? Why have culture memories been out of date? Have you deliberately chosen to ignore the environmental objectives? Why has it not come to the Stortinget that one is unable to meet the targets, and why has one simply not taken greater responsibility for this? Because now you see that there's a powerful aftermath that we have to cover in the next few years, while there might have been something to do with it in the past, because the government has, after all, been sitting for four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1520	The representative from the Central Party confirmed that when SV and the Center Party had seen their goal, they had thought of a number. The government has not done so. When we have seen a target in 2020, it is based on professional recommendations from the Riksantikvaren. So it's the most optimal goal both to reach the goals we've seen, and to get the skills we need to achieve this. There's actually a difference, because when one sits in government, one has to follow up the recommendations from the professional level, and I'm glad that there's a broad agreement to make it reasonable here, to set a target in 2020 and not let it be the anniversary celebration that set professional goals in such important environmental areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1525	I guess that's what I said a little while ago, saying that I was thinking about a number, as the council said. In fact, today’s national cultural memory policy targets stated that cultural memory loss should not exceed 0.5 pst by 2008. annual. So who thinks of numbers here, might well be hip as luck. What I'm really going to ask is about the churches. The cultural memory report says that the Church's employers' organisation has estimated the cost of repairing the churches at NOK 7-8 billion, and there is a lot of money. The cultural memory message opens up the possibility for churches to receive funding from the Cultural Memory Fund, and the Riksantikvaren has taken responsibility for the stave churches. Several types of funding have been provided, but in letters in the course of treatment we have been informed by the Council of State that sectoral responsibility should be clearly emphasised. If the Ministry of Local Affairs is to be added, there will be a lot of money. Then my question is, how will the Council of State deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1536	As far as I am concerned, I am very pleased with the priority of the Church which the Committee is in favour of. I myself have prioritised the Church in other contexts without receiving the same applause from the same representatives. I'm busy securing our churches. They're important cultural memory, and we've now been given the task of setting a strategy for this, and we're going to do that. At the same time, I think it is very important that we focus on sector responsibility when we are going to get out of that job. I also see the note attached to the stone churches, and it will of course be part of the government's assessment whether we should look at a more governmental responsibility when it comes to the stone churches. But it is important that the municipalities, which are responsible for our churches today, both those who are at peace and those who are protected, should also have that responsibility in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1546	I am glad that the Council of State makes it clear that he is listening to professional advice. As I was in my post, we received a letter from Bredalsholmen Fårjörverchertsen in Kristiansand, where the Riksantikvaren and the professionals said they would receive 2 million. kr more – according to the needs of the vessel protection at that yard. And then I am disappointed that the Council of State does not follow through on the revised budget the professional advice that he obviously must have received from the Riksantikvar, in terms of ship protection. Does the Council of State believe that it is sustainable on the one hand in a line change to say that he is listening to professional advice and on the other hand does not do so in the context of the revised budget? What will the Council of State do to prevent such situations, where you now have to permit people because those promises, if you can call it what they got from the Riksantik product, are not being followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1555	There is no reason to hide the lack of the total allowability of cultural memory in 2005. The Riksantikvaren has provided a need analysis for the Storting through the message. In fact, we need annual licenses of 175 million. until 2020 to achieve the target. But even before the protection of vessels, it is a significant economic priority. We need more than 21 million. Increases in commitments by 2020 in order to achieve the target. There is no reason to hide that the total cultural memory space is too low. It says the Riksantik product needs analysis. That's what I said earlier in my article. But we promise to increase the priority of this field, and I'm glad to note that there's a large majority in Stortinget that is behind that particular priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1567	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1570	The Ministry has a practice of putting striking titles on its key messages. This time I think you've met very well. ‘Life with cultural memories’ is both about living with cultural memories, survival and survival. Cultural memories are the part of the cultural heritage that we can literally take on and feel. Often these are privately owned. We see that owners and volunteers take a great deal of responsibility and make an invaluable effort to preserve cultural memories in this country. This is precisely what the government has taken on board, and the communication also promises concrete financial commitment, and that private efforts will have better framework conditions. It is a pleasure that this government, after a long drought of 18 years, puts this important matter on the agenda. It may not be so surprising since it was this government that created the Cultural Memory Fund, and that is now doubling this. A general understanding of use and protection lies at the heart of cultural memory protection, which is fully supported by the Right. Such an understanding is crucial if we are to succeed. We are totally dependent on having owners and users with us in this work. If new jobs and businesses can be created on the basis of our cultural memories, it is a huge increase that we should welcome and facilitate. I want to point to one area within this field where we still have a lot of work done and a great responsibility. We have 194 medieval churches. Of these, 28 stave churches, which have received special attention through the ongoing Stavkirche programme. But the remaining 166 stone churches from the Middle Ages also have great cultural wealth. Yes, in fact, it's almost exclusively the church buildings from this important period of the nation's history, with a few exceptions, such as: The Håkonshall, which represents the cultural memories. The stone churches are in themselves beautiful with their northern European nocturnal architecture, characterized by ties across the sea to former social and commercial partners. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Government celebrates this field of special attention. From the committee's treatment, we have allowed ourselves to point out that the church art that exists inside the churches deserves special attention. Unfortunately, these art taxes, often painted directly on the walls of the old churches, are in poor condition and are in danger of disappearing completely. In particular, this applies to lime paintings, which due to incorrect structural intervention for more modern times are exposed to moisture damage and weathering. Allow me here to bring out the old Moster church, which the committee visited, and which is supposed to be the country's oldest church. Here came Olav Tryggvason in 995, started the Christian work and let build a church, it is written in Snorre's royal saga. Here is the beautiful church art and interior from the early 1600s. The Committee was informed by the owners, the Early Memory Association, that the paintings could disappear in a short time due to moisture damage. That is why we have asked the Government to draw up an emergency action plan to save the unique church art in this and other churches. Church art is in many ways what we in Norway have of art history from this time. Then, of course, we can't let this go lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1587	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1590	I want to start by giving honor to the Council of State for an all right message, which gives a good overview. I want to focus a little bit on the technical and industrial cultural memories, which are close to my heart. In 1991, Mr Thorbjørn Berntsen, Minister for the Environment, took the initiative of setting up a cooperation group on the conservation of technical and industrial cultural memories. I was so lucky at the time that I was allowed to join that group, as LO's representative. Both LO and NHO were involved with several representatives of culture. I got a good insight into how the Riksantikvaren worked, which I later appreciated very much. I want to give the people of the Riksantikvar credit for the job they do to preserve our cultural memories. One of the mandates of this group was to advise on the cultural memories to be protected. I am pleased to see that at least 10 of the 31 that we saw at the time are mentioned in the message. I have visited all 10 of them and have them fresh in memory yet, although there is a time back. We also had a different mandate. We were to find funding in addition to what is granted over the state budget. It wasn't easy. Finding private funds for that kind of cultural memory is not easy. I am very pleased to note that in the strategies and measures mentioned in the Storing Communication, the Ministry says that they ‘will emphasise that this kind of cultural memory will provide the basis for value creation through new use’. We can look at these cultural memories today. If we go to Fetsund Lenser in Akershus, which I know well and have visited many times, it's also become a center that runs by nature as well as showing an old cultural memory that is worth preserving. If we go to Själingstad, we see that they still produce things. If we go to Klefoss, they've been driving theaters to make what life around the factory was like in the old days. They are living cultural memories, which are not what is called ‘mole bag preservation’. This is good, and it's important for these cultural memories. If we're going to be able to show how Norwegian industry has evolved over many years, this is a way to do it. I hope that the Council of State, together with the Minister of Culture, will continue to develop this, and that more technical cultural memories can be added to the list. 10 is many, and it's expensive to keep these, but it's also important to get more industries on that list.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1609	Today's attitude and debate have shown an important and positive commitment to preserving cultural memories and making them a central part of our cultural heritage. I am pleased that the strategies proposed by the Minister for the Environment have such broad support in the Storting. As a whole, they form a good starting point for further follow-up. When I take the floor in the debate, it is to express satisfaction that the State will take a greater financial responsibility to cover the cost of excavating peaceful cultural memories in the context of less private actions. I think this is both necessary and right to map and preserve cultural memories. If we are to succeed, the landowners must report the findings, and then they must know that they do not receive disproportionate expenses. We therefore need increased grants and new guidelines that can change administrative practices, and that is what we are now receiving. As a church politician, I am also pleased with the commitment the setting shows to take care of our church taxes. It is important to recognise the churches as a central part of our cultural memories. They tell about life rituals, influence, everyday life and power relationships up through the ages of our society. Although we continue the financial sharing of responsibilities between the municipality and the state, the Christian People's Party believes that increased government involvement is necessary in order to take care of worthy churches. The integration of the Church into cultural memory policy and the convergence of church buildings as cultural memories provide several instruments for a good and active church policy that takes care of buildings and facilities. At the same time, it is a challenge for cultural memory management to see how these buildings can and should be used and adapted to new forms of work and needs. Here we need cross-sectoral cooperation. Otherwise, it would also have been tempting to comment on some of the church political understanding that stands in the position, but I should not do that now. Finally, I would like to say that I am also satisfied with what the committee writes about rock art. The challenge is to make these memories available to most people and communicate the story of the images to the audience. There are good projects here, including: in Trøndelag, which should be fully realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1624	I think it's nice to be here today, and be part of this debate. It shows that we disagree on details, but largely there is a lot of agreement. That's what I think is important and pleasant about a message that's going to lift us up a little, and when it might be 18 years until the next time we're going to deal with such a message. I'm going to be careful to say a little bit about things that it didn't become a majority for the Center Party. This was not the case with tax relief. The centre lot has previously been included in a Document No. 8 proposals proposed to provide for general exemption from the payment of VAT for work on rescued buildings and private-owned constructions. It was voted down that time, and we took it up again now in the context of the cultural memory message. The background is that there are a lot of owners who think this is a good arrangement. It is unbureaucratic, and it is a very accurate instrument. I can also mention that abroad this is quite common with tax relief and tax relief in these areas. This applies to Denmark, Finland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and France — countries that we like to compare with in different contexts for the time being. So it's a shame we didn't get there, but we might get back to this later again. Then there's one more thing, and that's this with proposals for decisions in I. I'm glad that there was a majority to investigate the need to introduce new replacement rules into the Cultural Memory Act. The background to the fact that it has been seen together with this NOU in the Nature Diversity Act, or the bio-diversity law that many called it before, is that both laws contain a discussion of compensation rules. There is therefore reason to see these in context, because of course there are some common features between different types of protection. In that context, I can reassure the representative of Korsberg that I would like to take that debate when that time comes – but there will be another time. I would like you to be divided into proposals for decisions, so that there will be an opportunity to vote on just the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1641	The President will be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1644	Let me first say that I agree with Mr. Enger's statement that it is nice that we are creating a majority of many good proposals, many ambitious proposals, so that cultural memory management is given a better practice in the future than what the message shows has been status up to now. So I noticed that the Council of State said in its reply to me that when we had set 2014 as a target, we had thought of a number. So 2014 is 200 years after the Constitution was adopted in 1814, so we definitely hadn't thought about a number that we'd figured out to be a number. And then we asked the ministry what it took to make sure that we could achieve it by then, both in terms of economic and competence measures, and considered it reasonable to go in for it as a goal, so that we can upgrade the bet on cultural memories. St.meld. No 8 for 1999-2000 on the state of the State of the State of the State was submitted by the Bondevik I Government and that Communication states that the three objectives should be met by 2004, 2008 and 2010. It is therefore the background to the adoption of environmental objectives in the field of cultural memory – they were adopted in 2000. So it was at the suggestion of the Bondevik I government, and the government also supported what was in the position. So my question to the state council must then be: did the Bondevik I government only think of a number when they set those goals, or was it based on needs analyses from the Riksantikvaren? It has been said that this is a dramatic situation for cultural memories, and that something has to be done. It's a perception I share, but the sitting government has had quite good time on it. It has been sitting for four years, it has submitted four government budgets and four revised budgets. So the last revised budget is topped with a cut of NOK 120,000 in the operation of the Riksantik product. So my question, as I repeat, to the Council of State is, why hasn't the Government done anything before? Why has the Government not done anything to avert the present situation, and how has the Government followed up the environmental objectives set in 2000 – have they been governing government policy in the field of cultural memory? I hope that the Council of State does not hang up in 2014, as he did in reply to me instead, but that he answers the specific questions and challenges I have given him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1656	I share the joy that the previous speakers have shown in relation to this message. This is a historic day. We've been given a boost to cultural memory that we haven't seen before, and there's a broad majority in Stortinget that stands behind this to preserve a part of our national cultural heritage as a cultural memory. It is exciting to know that this effort will also be able to bring value creation, not least in the districts, which will be of great importance. Then I will address the challenge that the representative of Leknes is initiating. So this is the first time that we've got such a broad message about cultural memory, and the professional work that's behind this message is based on a broader distribution than ever before. In this work, a NOU is included, and there is a significant work here from the Riksantikvaren, and it is important for me to say that when the Government has said 2020, it is therefore based on a professional advice from the Riksantikvaren. It seemed to me that there is reason to listen, when the leading expert in this field strongly recommends going in for 2020 and not a prior date. What I'm saying is we didn't think about a number. We have seen 2020 on the basis of the professional advice given, and on the basis of the fact that it will build up competence, which is very important. All of a sudden, 2020 is what I think is the most sensible goal for this important area, and I'm glad that a broad majority in the Stortinget ends up doing so. It'll be the best thing for cultural memories in Norway, and that's why it's with great joy I look at this day, which I think is great for our cultural memories – that we can take care of them, that it's a collective effort. Then I want to point to the value creation program that's here. There is a 50 million value creation program. kr here that will be able to mean a lot. There are many people who talk about the Cultural Memory Fund today, but in fact, the annual rewards of the value creation project are larger than the extra billion with today's interest rate. So that program is going to be more important than the extra billion that's now involved in extra privileges.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1665	The representative Jørund Leknes has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1668	I must note that the Council of State does not answer my question. So my question was how the government had followed up the targets that were adopted in 2000, how this had been followed up in budgets, and how the government's policy had been conditional on it. I'm actually a little surprised at that, but I just want to say that what we're doing today is a big boost for cultural memories, with a further 1.4 billion kroner for the Cultural Memory Fund. We are hoped that the sitting government too will be able to follow it up if, against assumption, they will win the election. But I note that the Council of State did not answer my specific question: What has the Government done to follow up the targets adopted in 2000, and why has it been so bad?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1673	I'm not going to drag the debate out. However, I would like to say that when it comes to the cultural memory message we have submitted, there is a NOU on the ground, and we have had a professional review that has been broader and better than ever before, so it is clear that we have a safer basis for providing advice on 2020 now than we have had before. And there's no reason to hide that this review and the NOW mean that we have a much more clear and thorough professional basis for the message we are now presenting, and we can say that the Council is a right target for 2020, is more steady and better than the previous advice given to the Stortinget. That's why I'm also glad that the Labour Party and the Progress Party have joined up to what was the Government's recommendation when this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1678	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2723]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1694	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: the Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coastal Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three sequences with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's taken for granted. Before the President of the Court of First Instance receives the floor, the President will propose that the sitting of the morning be extended so that the replies to the statements of the President of the case are also taken at the sitting of the morning. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1705	Over the course of the regular monitoring of government environmental policy and the state of the state of the state of the state, Stortingen provides the opportunity to discuss environmental policy in a broad sense. But if the setting is long, this time too, we have restricted ourselves both in the setting and in the debate in relation to what we can address. However, as the rapporteur on the subject, I am pleased that there are some important areas in which the Committee either unanimously or through a broad majority goes beyond what the Government originally did in the message, or in some cases more clearly. This is particularly true in relation to putting in place a knowledge-based management of biodiversity. The government has set a very ambitious target of halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010, as a follow-up to the target set at the 2003 Environment Ministerial Conference in Kiev. The Committee points to this in particular: on the need for increased protection of forests and it is of particular importance. In order to achieve the objective of halting biodiversity loss, we need to secure the most valuable areas through protection, but as the majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, points out: ‘In order to preserve biodiversity, it is essential that we also take into account those natural areas that are not protected. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the monitoring and monitoring of biodiversity.’» I am very pleased that the setting is very clear and concrete in putting in place the knowledge-based management system. Here's the Art Database. It's very central. The Art Database was formally opened while we in the Committee were dealing with this message, and it may seem that the State Council's visit to Trondheim has opened up the eyes of the government parties to the need for the Art Database to be secured so that it will be able to carry out the task as a national knowledge centre and also all the tasks we have assigned to the Art Database. It seems that the Government has understood the importance of ensuring resources so that the Art Database can purchase the necessary professional services from relevant professional environments, as was the basis of the 2003 KUF investigation. There is a unanimous committee that underlines this in the setting. It is also a unanimous committee that points out that it is now necessary to carry out the next phase of the municipal survey, and I am pleased that the government parties are in favour of ensuring a majority that it is necessary to use their own resources that municipalities can be granted on application to ensure the necessary progress and professional quality of this survey. A third area where the setting is much clearer than the message is where we go in concretely to establish a Norwegian species project, so that we can better participate in the big bet that is being made in Sweden now. I expect all of these matters to be followed up in the budget for the autumn. The theme of biodiversity has been widely discussed in the setting, including the threat from introduced species, such as eardrums and king crabs, the need for conflict mitigation measures in the protection work and the debate on the import of rainforest forests. For the sake of time for my post, I do not go into these matters in any case, at least not in this round. Reducing NOx emissions in line with the Göteborg Protocol commitments will be one of the main challenges in the years to come. Statistics from the Central Bureau show that emissions of nitrogen oxides need to be reduced by 30 pst. Over the next five years, and it is said that there will be a formidable challenge. Forty pst. emissions come from domestic shipping and fishing and 17 pst. from the power plants on the base. It goes without saying that we have to put measures in place in these two areas we're going to be able to fulfil our obligations. As regards measures taken on ships engaged on Norwegian domestic voyages and on fishing vessels, the SFT has pointed out that motor technology measures are the most cost-effective. It is positive that government parties now understand more fully that this is an important and correct measure. However, there may be grounds for recalling that we had such a system from 1996 to 2000, which was reintroduced after the Workers' Party was able to put it into effect in the context of the 2004 budget, but that after that time no more funds have been made available; in fact, the funds allocated are not used up. So here, former Environment Minister and current Minister of Industry Børge Brende has a tool in the toolbox, but he has not managed to use it. In the case of the power plants on the socket, the message states that the Government will establish new emission requirements for the power plants on the socket. When Stortinget dealt with the climate notification in the autumn of 2001, a broad majority pointed out that electrification of the socket will be an important climate action. The electrification of the cap will also lead to reduced emissions of NOx. Mr Brende, Minister for the Environment, promised at the press conference when he presented the additional communication, that there would be a real way out of this. But since then it has been rather quiet from the government. Today we could actually read in the Evening Post that the license holders of the Valhall field, with British Petroleum at their head, will electrify the field and thus reduce the emissions of both CO2 and NOx. It is good that actors in the oil industry take responsibility in this way, but if we are to comply with the Gothenburg Protocol, the Government must move from word to action as soon as possible. It is positive that with great realism we can increase the target of recycling from 75 pst. to 80 pst., but that doesn't mean we're going to lean back and believe that we've solved the waste problem. Waste poses an environmental problem related to sewage, hazardous waste, emissions from landfills and incomplete incineration. The growth of waste increases the environmental challenge of waste but is also an indicator of the consumption of non-sustainable natural resources. The Stoltenberg government set up a public sample to propose measures to achieve waste reduction, and the sample presented its closure in 2002. Since then, the report has remained in a drawer in the Ministry of the Environment. There is clearly room here for a more offensive environmental policy. Among other things, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Party point out that producer responsibility for paints, varnishes, glues and oily products and for paper and wood should be introduced. One of the areas where it is high time to put in place a return system is for recreational boats and smaller fishing vessels. I am therefore pleased that at the end of the day there was a unanimous committee in which the authorities, together with the industry, had to put in place a return system for boats. In the Single European Act, the Government points to five cross-sectoral areas of activity, and all five areas are important if we are to turn production and consumption in a more sustainable direction. Environmental policy is ultimately about everyone being involved and taking responsibility, and one of the biggest challenges is to create understanding among people most of all because we have to let nature limit human activity. Here the municipalities have a very central role. I am pleased that a broad majority emphasises that the further development of local environmental work must be linked to the role of local authorities as a social developer. Already today, ‘sustainable development’ is in fact enshrined in the purpose clause of the municipal law – that is to say, it must be an overall objective for the municipalities. The government proposes a five-year development programme for the local government sector. That's positive, but there might be reason to wonder if the government has actually proposed a five-year release program. There is no lack of experience in the municipalities. On the contrary, much good environmental work has been done both during the MIK reform and in the Local Agenda 21. The main challenge for the environmental work of municipalities is that poor municipal economy means cutting down to the bone in order to prioritise the statutory tasks. In order to increase the commitment to locally sustainable work, there are, among other things: the rapporteurs of the 18 Pre-Communities voted in favour of the establishment of a National Agenda 21 Fund. The Labour Party supports the proposal for such a fund, but the most important thing is that we put in place instruments to stimulate cross-sectoral action locally, and as the local economy is now, there is a need for it to be set up by its own resources. There's, as I said, a lot that could have been said more about. But with this, I am presenting the Committee's recommendation and the proposals the Labour Party is making to promote in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1767	The representative Synnøve Konglevoll has drawn up the suggestions she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1772	In several articles today we have heard about the red-green government. The ‘Environmental State of the Kingdom’ should be an excellent opportunity to develop common environmental policies and then as an alternative to the existing government. What we see today is rather the opposite. In this context, there are two insignificant, small minority proposals on which the three parties stand together. It is about some legal assistance to municipalities and natural children's gardens. On the other hand, we are very pleased that the government's policy has a great deal of support. But one relationship I'll have to record. It is about organising inter-municipal solutions to improve water quality under the EU Framework Directive. Here's an I-proposal that the government's not going to support. That's because this is fully mentioned on page 58. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1779	The representative may complete the sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1782	I would like to receive the rapporteur's answer as to why such a proposal should be considered, when it is so well mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1787	The representative Halleraker was very happy, and I also put in my post the emphasis on being positive with regard to the points where the Government and the broad majority of the Storing have found themselves together. I think it is absolutely central to environmental policy to create a broad majority for the measures that you need to implement. With regard to the red-green government, I am absolutely convinced that we are also going to come together in the environmental field, and it has been so that the government parties in the spring session in the Stortinget have used almost every debate to point out the times we are not completely in the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party. There may be reason to recall that the party that has the Prime Minister, and also in so far as the Minister for the Environment, in this government, was elected the last time on a completely different government option. We're prepared to find solutions, and we're definitely going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1794	I just need to clarify what is today's and perhaps tomorrow's CO2 management policy, because the setting says: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party and the Progress Party wish to facilitate, not impose, builders to use CO2 management technologies. Therefore, in the opinion of those members, it shall not be required either for the granted concessions or for the future concessions.’.» We make it very little with what the Workers' Party has done in the past, because in the setting of the Climate Communication, it says that ‘additional concession and emission permits for gas power plants are only granted to gas power plants based on CO2 management’. So here, there's a huge gap in what you really mean, and I want the Workers' Party to clear up and clarify why you might have a whole new policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1814	As far as CO2 management is concerned, it is the case that in this setting a majority is in favour of focusing on technology development. We in the Workers' Party have had a national meeting where we have gathered to have a large-scale commitment to CO2 management and technology development in the field of gas power plants. Otherwise, it can be safely assumed that the Labour Party's policies are reflected in this setting. I don't want to say so much more about it, because, as the representative of Korsberg knows, I don't entirely agree with the large majority of my party in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1827	Let me start by thanking the case spokesman for his efforts, both as a case spokesman and as a magnificant representative. As we all know, it does not come back to Stortinget – probably because of a certain environmental exposure. Neither the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom nor the state of the working party is at its peak. With the exception of some things, which are illustrated here today, the Labour Party has in fact contributed to weakening the environmental status of Norway, among others. on the energy field. But the case spokesperson should be grateful that she has tried to improve the state of the environment both for the Reich and for the Workers' Party. Before environmental and energy issues, it is often the case that the AUF and single representatives on the Stortinget are most numerous with SV. What recommendations does the representative believe she will make in relation to the job she is going to enter into in the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature? Is the Workers' Party the right environmental party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1837	As the representative of Langeland points out in his statement, I am then proposed to be elected to the Central Council of the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature. I'm looking forward to that, if I'm elected, but as I said, you should always be chosen first. With my background from work in the Energy and Environment Committee, I will be able to continue my commitment to the environment, and I look forward to that. So, of course, I'm a worker party person. I will be in the future, too, because I am absolutely convinced that if we are to have a good policy in this country, much more should vote on the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08.ana.ud315e1844	So the chord change is over. Then we'll take a break in the negotiations. The meeting will be revisited at 9.30 a.m. 18 and we start with the posts of Øyvind Halleraker.
