ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e42	Honourable co-representatives! Former deposit representatives Gunnar Hellessen and Liv Aasen have passed away. Former Depositary and Councillor Gunnar Fredrik Helleses died in July, 92 years old. Gunnar Hellessen was born in Haugesund on 23 February 1913. After high school and commercial school he began in 1929 as an officeist in the insurance industry. From 1936 until 1940 he was the travel inspector of the Haugesund Marine Insurance Company. When the war came, Gunnar Helles engaged himself immediately in the resistance work. Already in August 1940 the group was rolled up, and everyone was taken prisoner. Together with nine of their comrades, Hellesen was sentenced to death – but for eleventh hours they were pardoned and the sentence was converted to ten years of dormancy. Gunnar Helleses spent the rest of the war in prison in Hamburg. In 1986, Hellessen published the book «Benådet» on his experiences during the war. Gunnar Hellessen became chairman of Haugesund Unge Höire in 1940 and resumed his job when he returned to his hometown in 1945. Afterwards, he got a number of jobs in the Young Right League, in the Rogaland Right and in the Right Central. He was a member of Haugesund City Council from 1946 to 1963 and was rapporteur from 1955 to 58 and from 1959. Gunnar Hellenes was elected alternate from Rogaland in 1958 and moved in as a permanent representative at the 1961 elections. He left the Storting in 1969 to take over the position of county governor in Rogaland, but in 1970 he was called back to national politics as Minister of Defence in the government of the Borten. In March 1971 he got his county office back, but as early as 1973 he left to take over the position of bank manager of the Norwegian Credit Bank in Haugesund, a post he held until 1980. Gunnar Helleses had a number of other positions, both public and business. It should be mentioned here that he was head of the 1968 Theatre Committee, that he was a member of the 1972 to 1983 Monitoring and Security Service Committee, and that he was chairman of the Industrial Fund from 1973 to 1976. Gunnar Hellenes was appointed Commander of the Order of St. Olav in 1979. At Stortinget, Gunnar Helles was first a member of the Protocol Committee, where he was also Vice President. He was also a member of the secret control committee. From 1962 to 1963 he was a member of the Financial Committee, where he was chairman from the autumn of 1965. Gunnar Helleses was a socialist. He belonged to the generation that perceived peace and regained freedom in 1945 as an obligation to engage actively in society. He was also a man of cooperation, and once in an interview said that «the years of war taught us to disagree properly». This was a reality, which came to shape Gunnar Helleses also in his work on the Stortinget. He had good friends across all party boundaries and will be missed by everyone in the Storting who got the pleasure of knowing him. With Liv Aasen went a marked and active politician, and a significant representative of the labour movement, gone off, August 21, after a long-standing disease. Liv Aasen was born in Bergen in 1928. She was a trained teacher, among others. from the University of Cambridge. She practiced as a teacher in Fana, Kongsberg and Trondheim. In the 1960s she regularly served as a teacher at the Nordic National College in Geneva, where she was also a principal. Liv Aasen was active in local politics. She started her political career as a city board member in Kongsberg and later as a member of the city board in Trondheim. She belonged to the working class and was part of it. Therefore, the Workers' Party became a natural choice for her. In her young years, she was active in the AUF and a member of the AUF National Government. In 1969, Liv Aasen took a step into national policy when she was elected to represent the South-Tronde Team. She was re-elected to the Storting four more periods, and went out of the Storing in 1989. She made a great effort in these 20 years, both in the Committee on Transport and in the Committee on Churches and Education. But it was as a member and vice-chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee that Liv Aasen made the strongest mark and got involved in the formulation of Norwegian foreign policy. One of the characteristics that characterized her was her always strong international commitment. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, she was given the opportunity to use her insight and commitment — perhaps especially in matters of aid, disarmament and human rights. As a politician, she was on several occasions a delegate to the UN General Assembly. However, it was at the European level that Liv Aasen made the most of himself and put the biggest tracks behind him. In most of her years at Stortinget, she was a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Here she was for a number of years head of the Norwegian delegation, and several times the president of the assembly. Although it was foreign policy that was her arena, she was conscious of who had chosen her. For many years she was the first representative of the South-Trundellag, and a good representative of the state's interests. There are many who mourn the loss of their friend and politician Liv Aasen – a politician who had deep respect for his fellow human beings and who got respect back. Around her it was serious in the work, but the smile and laughter were always there. Her strong and burning political commitment will be missed. We remember Gunnar Hellessen and Liv Aasen with deep respect and gratitude for their work on the Storting – and brighten peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e80	The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has taken the seat. From 20 October to 11 November to take part in the 60th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations, Part II, in New York, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Party Group for leave of the representative Torny Pedersen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Knut Petter Torgersen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e103	Knut Petter Torgersen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e109	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen is unanimously elected president of the Stortinges meeting today. The representative of Gjermund Hagesetter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e114	On behalf of the representative Ulf Leirstein and myself, I am delighted to propose that the amount limit for duty-free imports be raised from NOK 200 to NOK 1000.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e119	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e123	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Karin Woldseth and myself, I have the pleasure of putting forward proposals to implement a binding referendum in the municipality of Bergen on the construction of the urban railway in Bergen and on the toll financing of the Bergen programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e128	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e134	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the minutes be drawn up. Case No 8 and 9 4 on today's map is taken up for treatment before case no. 1 – and considers it adopted. 1st@item: inlistbox The Electoral Committee notifies that it has elected Thorbjørn Jagland as its leader, Siv Jensen as its first Vice-Chairman and Erna Solberg as its second Vice-Chairman.2. [[8]] [[9]] Reporting on the composition of the Standing Committees of the Storting (S. No. 2 [[2005-2006]] Onest. : No. 1 and 2 shall be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e146	Before case No. 1 is addressed, the President will state that this position has not been beyond the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget examine the matter now. – No objections have been raised against it, and it is then deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e160	No one has asked for the floor. The matter is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e326	The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e351	The debate will be opened with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 20 minutes. Then each of the opposition lots receives an article of up to 10 minutes. After these posts, up to five lines are given access to row blanks. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, followed by a row of up to three lines. In addition, 49 posts of up to 5 minutes are allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 18 posts, the Party of Twelve eleven posts, the Right Seven posts, the Socialist Left Party 4 posts, the Christian People's Party 3 posts, the Centre Party 3 posts and the Left Three posts. After up to two of the five-minute submissions from each group, access is given to a row of up to three rows. Finally, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the posts allocated, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. Before the President gives the floor to the first speaker, the President will give a briefing on the new arrangement that is now in the Grand Duchy. The old representatives will see that there are two new interlocutors here. They are assumed to be used during spontaneous Question Time. In the usual debates, it is free to use the pulpit next to the president or the two new ones who are closest to the podium. The first speaker is Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e364	First, I would like to refer to the excellent government statement I made yesterday. Today I'm just going to add some considerations and points of view. The first is that with the formation of the new majority government, there is a new political focus in Norwegian policy. This is because three parties that have always had a good deal in common with each other in terms of values and positions, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, have now managed to enter into a much more committed cooperation than they have ever done before. It's not new that the three parties work together. When the Workers' Party and the Centre entered into the crisis settlement in 1935, it was the beginning of a long period of Labour Party rule, and the governments of the Workers' Party in the 1980s and 1990s were also established through close cooperation not least with the Centre Party. All budgets during that period were drawn up in cooperation between the Labour Party and the Centre Party and several parties in the centre of Norwegian policy. The working party and SV have also had a lot to share historical, common values and common views on many large and small specific issues. But despite this community, which has been expressed over many years in different ways, the three parties have never previously managed to enter into a commitment of lasting cooperation. That's what's new now, that the three parties have managed to overcome the issues that stood in the way of cooperation, among other things. a number of issues related to foreign and security policy, European issues, as well as energy and environment issues. So it's been possible to build bridges over the obstacles that were there when there was commitment. It's actually happened over many years. Throughout the previous ageing period, there was built cooperation, trust and contact between the three parties, and then it was expressed and concluded and manifested through the declaration drawn up on Soria Moria, where this was outlined, and where the concrete solutions to the conflicts were found. That is why we have good faith in the fact that we are now able to establish cooperation between three parties that can be a focus of Norwegian policy for many years, which can provide the basis for a government that will rule for four years, and of course our goal is also to be a common government option at the 2009 big elections. But in order to do that, in order to establish the committed cooperation between three parties, which have three independent programmes, and which have disagreed on several important issues, it was necessary to make compromises. Therefore, there is no art for the opposition today to demonstrate that compromises have been reached on a number of points, and that the various parties have given, sought, in order to establish the consensus that was established on Soria Moria – and if they need help, I can well guide them in where compromises have been reached. I can speak for my own party: it is quite clear that the Soria Moria declaration and the joint document we are now presenting differ on some points from the Labour Party programme. Otherwise, there would not have been a common document between three lots. So the piece of art is not to show that we've been stretching, the piece of art must be to prove that one of the three pieces has stretched so much that it cannot stand in the way of the whole. This has not happened, because all the parties have had their mark on the document. All the parties can accept the compromises, all the parties feel that they have achieved much more than they have given. Then I would also like to stress that in Norwegian policy it is that when compromises are made, they are all out to find out who the loser is, as if compromise presupposes that one wins and the other loses. That is the case if one negotiates with political opponents – then it is that all one party gets, the other party must consider a loss. But on Soria Moria there are not political opponents who have negotiated, they are political partners who have negotiated. That is why the compromises, the fact that we have given something in negotiations, are not an expression of defeat. It's a statement that we have the ability to compromise. Without that ability, we wouldn't be able to establish a majority government, we wouldn't be able to give the country overall governance and give the country both new policies and help change the shape of the policy by establishing a majority government. So that's why all three of these are going to be winners. But more important than that, the values, the things, the people we fight for are the winners, because we've managed to create a common policy that can just help us realize the values we believe in. The alternative is not to cooperate. I believe that Norwegian policy needs more cooperation, that parties are more willing to take the pressure to put their hats on the stakes, to help find solutions, and I believe that one of the challenges on the right is precisely whether there is the ability to establish some kind of cooperation that can be binding, as we have managed to do in the centre-left. We also believe that the fact that we have now established a majority government has contributed to adding something new and something valuable to the Norwegian People's Government. It is not least that by establishing the majority option that we established before the elections, which we have worked with for a long time – and on which the three parties went to elections and said that if we get a majority, a majority government is established, then we get a government made up of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre – we have introduced the policy something new because the voters have now had the opportunity to vote for a government. The three parties that went to elections together won the election, and the voters got the government they voted for. I believe that is a better way to change governments. It adds clarity to the regime, a place of responsibility, which is not the case when government changes happen through crises in the Storting, through negotiations and games, and voters don't know what government they get when they vote on the different parties, as would easily be the case if we had had a majority of the right parties in the Storinget. Then it had been unclear what kind of government we had received. So we go to work with humility and respect by winning a election, having a popular mandate. The voters have given us confidence through elections, which is the basis of our government. That we feel is a great trust that we have to manage in the best possible way. Then we're going to meet the voters in 2009 and take responsibility for good and bad, for what's shaken, and what's wrong. We will also take responsibility for the results we have achieved, and then the voters will be allowed to assess us in 2009 on that basis. It creates a clarity. It creates a long-term perspective, and it creates a much clearer division of responsibilities between opposition and position, between government and magnification, than we have had in Norway for a long time. One thing I would like to say is that we have established a new political centre of gravity and helped to clarify responsibilities between government and magnification. The second thing I want to say is that the reason why we agreed, the reason why it was possible to find a common platform where everyone gave, where everyone contributed to the compromises – but where everyone can say that we can support the result, we have got our mark on the result – is that the three parties initially agree on a lot and initially have common values, common goals in the key areas. It is therefore also a strikingly good opening chapter in the Soria Moria Declaration of Values, in which we try to say something about the meaning of community and justice, both because justice is a value in itself, and also because we believe that sharing is the best contribution to giving individual people freedom of choice. We do not accept the message from the right that there is a contradiction between the individual's freedom of choice and community. We believe, on the contrary, that strong, good Community solutions are the best contribution to giving individual freedom of choice, that the lack of childcare facilities is an obstacle to freedom of choice, that lack of public care is an obstacle to freedom of choice, and that Nordic, Scandinavian, countries are among the countries most advanced in granting individual freedom of choice precisely because they have invested in the strong public community solutions rather than privatisation and the market in the most important welfare solutions. So we have in common that we believe in the Community solutions, and believe that it contributes to giving the individual more, not less freedom of choice. It's also expressed through the many big and small different political issues that we've presented in the government statement and the Soria Moria platform, and I'm going to mention some of them to illustrate just that. One is work, value creation. We do not believe that the creation of value in the country, that the struggle for work for all, is best ensured by leaving as much as possible to the market. We simply believe that the community, an active state, must contribute both to ensuring value creation and to ensuring work for all. It is either that the active State should take responsibility for pursuing a responsible economic policy, a responsible budgetary policy, or that the authorities should pursue an active industrial policy through the use of State instruments in Innovation Norway, public ownership, investment in transport, investment in research to develop Norwegian enterprises, secure jobs, develop its competitiveness. But this also applies specifically when we are talking about combating unemployment, because it is about both the overall economic policy, the industrial policy, and it is about the more targeted measures against those who go through the unemployed, among others. a more active labour market policy, youth guarantee, an action guarantee for those who are long-term unemployed. Then we clearly say in the statement that the fight against unemployment is both about combating the open, registered unemployment, and it is also about combating the hidden unemployment, for all those who are being pushed out of the labour market. We know that without building the bridges back to the labour market, for example. by labour market measures, we will not be able to bring people back to work, people who are currently outcast or who are at risk of being pushed out of the labour market. Here we distinguish ourselves from the right parties, which have built up labour market policies, which do not believe in those instruments. We believe in them and believe that, among other things, What we achieved in the 1990s, when we had the unemployment down sharply, is a good example of that. Similarly, we believe that if we are to succeed in reconciling work and the environment, growth and protection, it is only possible if we have an active community, that the authorities, the state takes responsibility. Examples of that are what we do with gas. We will facilitate the use of gas in Norway for power generation, for industry, for transport. At the same time, however, it is going to happen within our climate commitments, and therefore we have committed ourselves to the most extensive public effort to develop technology to deal with the greenhouse gas CO2. We're sure that we're going to do both to use the gas and at the same time to do it in an environmentally friendly way. We don't think the market will do that job. We believe that the State must go ahead and contribute to funding, take some of the risks that the market is not afraid to take when it comes to, for example. bet on CO2 technology, on CO2 deposition. If we succeed in that, we will do a lot to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and we will also do a lot to develop Norwegian business in terms of processing an important Norwegian raw material. Similarly in the case of school: We reject the privatisation of the school — the main contribution to preventing the privatisation of the school is to equip a strong public common school. We are presenting many large and small concrete proposals on how to follow up the Knowledge promise – a reform that was launched in 2000 and on which there has been broad political agreement in many areas over the last four-year period. There we have to follow up with quality, with content, with several teaching hours and with better continuing training of teachers. But we're different from the outgoing government on at least two important points: one is that quality in school will cost, so the municipal economy needs to be strengthened, and the other is that we reject the privatisation that the outgoing government provided. The third area in which Community solutions are superior is care. Here we will be tested, and the most important thing is the care of the elderly. The increase in the number of older people will perhaps be the biggest task the Norwegian welfare society has faced since it was established after the war. It will be a challenge in relation to our pension system, in relation to our healthcare system and in relation to municipal care for the elderly. It will require many more hands, both in healthcare and in care for the elderly, and more money in the pension system. The number of people we need, and the need to increase the funding of pensions, of care and health care, are precisely the strongest arguments against continuing the fiscal policy pursued by the outgoing government. We need that money in the common fund to finance all the schemes that need to be strengthened when the population gets older, and the number of elderly people in need of care is increasing. We also see it in the international field. The international challenges also require more sharing. That is why we wanted to be a government to step up the fight against poverty in the world, step up the work of a strengthened UN and contribute more strongly to peace – be a clear peace nation. In the government statement yesterday, I invited Stortinget to cooperate. It's serious. We are committed to ensuring cooperation and close contact with the big groups of the government parties, but as a government we are also concerned with working together with the opposition. And even though there are big and important issues we disagree on, we are sure that in this room there are people with a lot of expertise and knowledge that the Government will benefit from cooperating with. We are looking forward to cooperation with the entire Stortinget, and I look forward to a debate on the important issues of our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e418	Let me first congratulate Prime Minister Stoltenberg on the establishment of his new government. When the Prime Minister presented the statement to the Storting yesterday, he said it was important for this government to have a modern defense. But you can also see from the Soria Moria statement that the government has ambitions to move several of the Norwegian forces out into the world. At the same time, in these days we have a very good example of how difficult it will be to deal with conflicts in our northern regions. How does this government think it is possible to deal with Norwegian sovereignty in the northern regions without at the same time strengthening the defence in a sufficient way, given all the years we have now built the defense slowly, but safely down? I also noticed that the Prime Minister spoke about this government's commitment and lasting cooperation. Yes, there is no doubt that they want this to be binding, but it remains to be seen whether this cooperation will be as lasting as the Government wants it to be. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e427	As President, you are in a position where you can squeeze down the Progress Party, but that's not why the President does it, it's to ask everyone to observe the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e430	Let me first thank the representative, Siv Jensen, for his congratulations. I look forward to many good debates with the representative of Jensen. Then I just want to calm her down by saying that we should be able to participate both in international operations and in UN operations while at the same time enforcing Norwegian sovereignty in the northern regions. We're going to do that partly by using the resources we have today, in a consistent and good way, and I believe that the way the Coast Guard has behaved over the last few days is a confirmation of that. The second is that in the statement we say that we should strengthen the Coast Guard, and the third is that in the years to come, we will also strengthen the Marines in general through a large investment programme, among other things. in frigates already in progress. So I think our presence in the northern regions will be well taken care of. The sovereignty will be safeguarded, and more resources will be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e439	I have to say that what surprised me about the government statement was not everything that stood there, but the total lack of perspective on the challenges facing all the other countries in Europe every single day, namely how European countries, welfare countries as our own, will cope with international competition in the years to come. Those are words that are almost not mentioned. There are strategies that have somehow disappeared from this government's policy. And if we then begin to ask questions about some of the elements of the strategies, I must be allowed to ask the Prime Minister: is it such that compulsory removal of other foreign languages in Norwegian school, removal of study skills requirements for higher education, shifting the focus of industrial policy from innovation to state support and increasing tax and tax levels are part of a strategy that will help Norway to become smarter, more competitive and maintain and further develop well-being? At least it's a completely different course from that of all the other European social democratically governed countries in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e444	The new government is very concerned about how Norway is going to act in a globalised economy, how we are going to act in an increasingly cohesive world economy – but we probably have a little different answers than the right parties. For us, it is not the case that tax relief and lower rates on Community solutions are the answer. On the contrary, we believe that the answer lies in the strong, broad public welfare solutions, and we believe that the Nordic countries are proof of that. Recently, the World Economic Forum published a list of the countries they believe to be most competitive in the global economy, and of the first ten, the five Nordic countries – the countries with the strongest public sector, the highest international tax level, the evenest distribution of income and the strongest trade movements. So we simply believe that community is modern, that community is competitive, that privatisation, right-wing policy, is immature and does not master the global challenges. Other foreign languages must be taught by many young people, but we do not believe that it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e453	I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, and the Government with waltzers and a worthy way to carry out a shift in Norway. The Christian People's Party will conduct a factual but clear opposition policy, based on the Christian values of human vision, stewardship and love. It is, as Stoltenberg said, an exciting statement that was read yesterday. But something is missing, and I want to ask for it. In the Common Era, the Swedish Cooperative Government, Bondevik, says: «The government has its values anchored in the principles of the rule of law and democracy and in the Christian and humanist cultural heritage. Respect for the individual human being, for human dignity and human rights are fundamental.» In the statement yesterday, there was nothing about a common basis of value, and there was no reference to, as we have used to have in the Norwegian Greatness, our thousand-year tradition, the Christian and humanistic basis of value. I hope that Stoltenberg can confirm that they will still enter on that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e467	First, I would also like to thank the representative, Jon Lilletun, for the praiseworthy words and say that I look forward to working with the representative, Lilletun. We've cooperated a lot more than people know. – Yeah, I guess that's what we can say about it. [[muttering in the hall]] Then we have a long chapter on value base, and there we're trying to reflect on the dilemma we're living in, that we have people who believe in different religions in our country, and we're an increasingly multicultural society. But at the same time we say the following: «Our policies shall reflect and respect diversity, while taking with them the best values and traditions of the Christian cultural heritage.» So reference to the Christian cultural heritage is included, but it's inserted into a larger framework where it's reflected that we've become a more diverse society also religious.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e480	The President may know what the Prime Minister is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e483	I will also be allowed to join the congratulations of the new Prime Minister and wish his new government good luck. I would also like to thank him for his important contribution to bringing about a good and worthy change of government that was worthy of our democracy. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank you for the little lecture we received here a few minutes ago, on the art of working with parties in government. I have great respect for new knowledge, and I too am in favour of this promise of knowledge. So to a matter that I am concerned about, but that was not affected in the government statement yesterday. When the Prime Minister presents an ambitious project on behalf of the State budget to spend more money in important areas, which means that several more people are entering public posts, labour is needed in addition to what is available in Norway today. Nothing positive was said about the need to have labour immigration and the labour force we now receive in the enlarged EEA area. It may be due to the alien scepticism of the Center Party or the Red Pens of the LO, but I choose to believe it was a time slip, and would like to ask the Prime Minister to use this opportunity to say something about the importance of it in his policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e492	First, I would also like to thank the representative Sponheim, and I look forward to dialogue with Sponheim on how to cooperate in a multi-party government. There's always something to learn there. With regard to labour immigration, this government proposes that we have to have labour immigration from the EEA area – of course – and that is an area where we have to expect that there will be some increase in labour immigration. It is a result of the EU enlargement and a result of the EEA Agreement. So it was that the government I last put down reduced the requirements for the specialisation in the field of labour immigration outside the EEA area. The government has not agreed to tighten those provisions, and that means that we are going to have labour immigration, especially from the EEA territory, but also to some extent outside the EEA territory. The important thing is that we say yes to labour immigration, but no to social dumping. So we have comprehensive provisions on how to prevent social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e501	You have to listen carefully when socialist parties talk about freedom of choice for the individual. I noticed that the Prime Minister spent a lot of time trying to explain why strong Community solutions – publicly managed solutions, publicly regulated and publicly defined – automatically lead to a significant degree of freedom for individuals. This freedom of choice of pride is going to be interesting to follow, simply because many of us associate freedom of choice with the right to choose between different alternatives. In this government's world, freedom of choice will mean that those who can afford to buy freedom of choice can do so, while the vast majority of us must actually be given the «freedom of choice» that the Government gives us through public-run schemes, which de facto do not give us freedom of choice at all. There's something I don't think the Prime Minister gave a good explanation for, and I'd like to ask him to elaborate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e506	I think some of the discussion about freedom of choice is confused by the fact that many put equality between freedom of choice and privatisation. For us, freedom of choice is fully possible within a publicly funded system, within Community solutions. What we are opposed to is the privatisation of e.g. The school, which we believe will lead to less freedom of choice, which will lead, inter alia, to the closure of the school. outreach schools and less diversity in public schools. But we are for freedom of choice within the community. I would like to remind you that, for example, was a worker party government that introduced free hospital choice. It was my previous government that made sure that there was free choice of permanents here in the country. It was the City Council of the Workers' Party and the SV that introduced free home elections in Oslo, and in many states our parties voted for different forms of free school choice. So it's completely possible to have freedom of choice even if you don't privatize and put on commercial solutions. We are against that, because it leads to greater differences and less freedom of choice for those who depend on public solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e511	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e514	I must also be allowed to wish the rest of the government good luck with the tasks that it is now going to do. The Progress Party has ambitions to be a constructive opposition party. We're going to measure the government's actions – and to the extent that the government fails to do so. So at this point, we have a government statement, a Soria Moria statement, which is full of many words and many desires, but which gives us less clear indications of what the government actually intends to do. Therefore, it is exciting to wait for the concrete actions that the Government will take in the next few days. The first thing we might be able to measure the government is the changes that will come into the state budget for 2006. Some promises have been very clear, and it is no big surprise if they are fulfilled. But then the big question is what the government is going to do in many of the other important areas that this state budget will have to be about. One of the areas is, of course, taxation policy. We have recorded that the government parties spent the entire election campaign talking about the dismay of the so-called tax haven of the rich, but at the same time the government has spent a lot of energy highlighting one tax relief that one has the ambition to carry out, and that is the union quota. It's obviously a premiere of the support this government received from LO throughout the election campaign. What remains to be seen is what plans the government has for the rest of the taxpayers, how hard taxpayers now have to hold the wallet in the time that comes, in order to be able to pay for all the promises made by the government parties in the last few weeks. However, there have been some very clear negative signals through the government statement. In the first area, namely asylum and immigration policy, it is quite clear that this government has the ambition to liberalise refugee and asylum policy. It is alarming at a time when refugee flows are greater than ever, when the number of false asylum seekers is greater than ever. It also requires a lot from a country like Norway. Only the signals of liberalisation could in itself lead to increased inflows and major problems for Norway in the coming years. We also noted that the government had no significant ambitions in criminal policy. There were fine wordings from the Prime Minister yesterday on the prevention of crime, but that is said to be very little, both by the Prime Minister and the Soria Moria Declaration, on how to deal with people who commit gross criminal acts in Norwegian society. We are curious whether the new justice minisitizer is going to follow up some of what he has said through the election campaign, but that has not been entirely consistent with the policies of the three parties. We are pleased with the invitation that the Prime Minister made yesterday on broad cooperation in Stortinget, and the Progress Party intends to take him seriously. And precisely because we take him seriously, we have allowed ourselves to promote two proposals in the room today that relate to the care of the elderly. Parental care was one of the most important issues throughout this campaign. All the parties talked about care for the elderly, and all the parties promised to find good solutions to care for the needs of sick, elderly people. Yesterday the government said that this government would legitimize the right to babysitting for our children. It is a pleasant wish, but the challenge for the Government and the Prime Minister is whether they will also be with the Progress Party to legislate on the right to care services and nursing homes for elderly, sick people. In the case of kindergartens, many of the funds are earmarked, precisely because the Storting wants to control the use of this money by municipalities. We therefore have greater reason to believe in goal attainment there. In the case of care for the elderly, however, this government’s response has been to transfer money to the municipalities and thus be entirely dependent on the municipality’s prioritisation of this very important area – which we spent almost the entire election campaign debating. It would be worth the national parliament of the country if one could also gather to implement the same statutory right for the elderly and sick. You talk about statutory rights for the very least, you talk about statutory rights to education for those who are a little older – but the oldest ones, who may no longer have relatives or others to care for their interests, so they shouldn't have any statutory rights. This I hope will be the Prime Minister's first contribution to show that the Government is serious when he talks about the desire for broad cooperation in the Stortinget. The Prime Minister spent a lot of time in his speech talking about the majority government establishment. It is true that there will be a greater degree of predictability and perhaps even greater commitment among the citizens by getting clearer fronts, clearer lines of policy, but Prime Minister Stoltenberg will have to guard himself to try to create the impression that the four parties that are now in opposition in the Stortinget are one and the same. I notice that the Prime Minister is trying to create a definition of these so-called right parties. I can cancel that here and now. The Progress Party has for a long time found itself in a place between the Right and the Workers' Party in terms of the political landscape, and there we feel very comfortable. In many areas of Norwegian policy, the Progress Party has been closer – and cooperated well – to the Labour Party than we have done with the Right. In many other areas, we have cooperated well with the Right and partly with the other non-socialist parties. And we're going to keep doing that. But trying to create the impression that the four parties that are now in opposition have a common policy is not right. So the Prime Minister said that it will now end the game, and that the Stortinget will appear as a more worthy arena. Maybe that's true. The only thing that's different is that you're now moving this game into the closed rooms. Now it will be much less visible to opposition parties, to voters, to organisations and to Norwegian press what kind of game actually takes place between the three government parties in the closed rooms. At the top of it all, the Government has LO as a watchtower – all the way into the Prime Minister's office. It is challenging for many of us to be able to assess what is happening in the closed spaces as a prerequisite for the policy for which the Storting will ultimately be presented. Therefore, it is important that the Storting carries out its control functions in a much, much more offensive way than has been done in previous periods. And I think the government is going to be very responsive to enquiries from the Storting about transparency in documents relating to the Government's preparation and work on matters that might seem to be ready when they get to the Stortinget. You can read in Today's Business Today about Stoltenberg's great u-turn. And you could also hear traces of it in the post just made by the Prime Minister, especially when he spoke about welfare, freedom of choice and privatisation. It's not very many years since Prime Minister Stoltenberg was concerned about finding good solutions, I had almost said regardless of whether they were publicly or privately funded. The most important thing should be that it created good solutions for individuals in everyday life. In particular, the Workers' Party considered that it was dangerous to maintain old solutions that did not work, because it would weaken confidence in the Community schemes. What we now hear very clearly is that these old solutions are to be held fast, I would have almost said at any price, whether they work or not, whether they give freedom of choice or not, whether they reduce the queues or not, whether they meet the needs of the inhabitants or not, because it has become a mantra for the socialist parties to govern everyday life in the vast majority of areas for the people most. It's not freedom of choice. It is rather a desire to control people much more strongly. The Progress Party disagrees, and that is why we will follow the Government very closely in its progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e537	The President assumes that the representative intended to address the two proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e540	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e547	The representative then addressed the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e552	The representative, Siv Jensen, will be the leader of the largest opposition group during the ageing period that begins now. It may therefore be interesting to challenge the representative Jensen on what kind of role the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party will play in the future. Through the election campaign, we heard a party of progress that had been engaged in civil gatherings, but was rejected by, among other things. Right. My question is: does the Progress Party still see itself as the bridge builder on the bourgeois side, or will we now experience a progress party that spends time in opposition to the opposite end of its most extreme position?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e558	It is quite right that the Progress Party is the largest opposition party, and we intend to use it constructively. As I said in my post, we are going to meet the Government in a constructive way by giving the Government both recognition and praise in policy areas where we agree, but at the same time we will be ongoing and aggressive to change some of the policies in which we disagree with the Government. There will be tough, but substantive debates. So we have an ambition that this government will not sit any longer than until 2009. This implies building alliances on the non-socialist side in order to provide the basis for a possible non-socialist majority rule. The Progress Party has taken the lead in doing so. It is a task that is not necessarily done from this pulpit, and which is at least not done on the TV screen, but which we intend to try to contribute in our way through dialogue and cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e565	In the range of congratulations, I would also like to congratulate Siv Jensen on the work of the new parliamentary leader of the Progress Party. After taking up this position, the representative Jensen has warned against the red-green use of money and asked people to keep a good look at the wallet because all the promises are to be financed with new taxes. That is an assessment I agree with. But what Siv Jensen doesn't say much about is that the Progress Party is for most of these promises from the red-green ones. In addition, the Progress Party has its own promises, and the Progress Party will have huge tax relief. Where the Red-Greens will finance their promises through large tax increases, the Progress Party will finance its promises and tax reliefs by increasing interest rates and changing the action rule. Isn't it true that most people also have to hold on to the wallet because of the large interest rate increases that will come through such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e572	I guess it's not exactly the right to give a lecture on how to apply the rule of action. Since its introduction in 2001, the rule of action has largely been the practice of the outgoing government. So a whole new interpretation of the rule of action has been introduced, namely that the proper use of oil money is what the government is always using. So the rule of action has not been consistently followed. It has been consistently waived and nevertheless thought that it was responsible for the use of money. Stoltenberg has in his time in opposition warned the right-wing government against that use of money. The Progress Party will therefore expect the Stoltenberg government to be even more insistent in the use of oil money. But we have always said that when Norway goes with as much profit as we actually do, there is room for both low taxes and taxes and sensible investments, among other things. in road construction. We can afford that. It gives us opportunities for new value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e577	The Prime Minister invited us to debate the most important issues of our time. One of these issues should be violence against women. The UN and Amnesty characterise this violence as one of the most comprehensive human rights violations in the world. In three days it will be TV action. Therefore, I would like to hear what the Progress Party under Siv Jensen will do for violent women in poor countries, where the perpetrator is reluctant to be expelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e582	The progress has been in line with SV and the other parts in this room have been behind this year's TV action. We have engaged in the topic simply because violence, whether against women, against children or against men, is a problem that needs to be tackled. It must be combated whether it happens here or in other countries. We have been critical of much of the aid policy that has been pursued by the Norwegian side, precisely because billions of dollars have gone straight into the pockets of despots and other ruling men and have by no means come out to violent women or to poor people around the whole world. There is a problem that I think SV must also take inwards in the discussion about spreading money around to a drum for good purposes without being willing to measure the quality of the assistance and the help that comes from the Norwegian side. It is a debate that must be absolutely crucial in the years to come for Norwegian aid policy to have confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e589	The Christian People's Party believes in local democracy. Work is done very well in Norwegian municipalities. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to give economic space to our small and large municipalities so that they can manage to solve the many important welfare tasks that they have. The representative, Jensen, said in his statement that it would be worthwhile to legislate for the right to care for the elderly. Does the representative Jensen think that just increasing the framework transfers to the municipalities is not enough? Or, in another way, does not the Progress Party trust the local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e596	Yes, the Progress Party trusts the local politicians. That's precisely why the Progress Party in budgetary negotiations with the outgoing government actually had to put considerable pressure, not least on the Christian People's Party, to increase transfers to the municipalities so that they could master their tasks to a greater extent. So it was the Progress Party that provided for every time there was budgetary unity between the Progress Party and the Government Parties. I would like to remind you of that. Although we have a significant degree of confidence in local politicians around the country, we also believe that in basic welfare areas, such as the United States and Japan, there is a high level of trust in local politicians around the country. care for the elderly should be entitled to an equivalent offer whether you live in the south of the country or north of the country. So you don't have that guarantee as long as you've been given local choices, where you also have the opportunity to spend money on anything other than care for the elderly if that's the priority local politicians have. Of course, local politicians must be responsible for this. But we have said that in as important areas as care for the elderly, the state should assume its financial responsibility, because that will give you a more equivalent offer throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e601	It is fascinating to listen to the representative Jensen's description of what state responsibility can mean. She must know that, for example, in the field of social security, where there has been a longer-term responsibility for the State, there are nevertheless considerable differences between different states in practice. Now, the municipalities get $5.4 billion more in free income than last year. It gives local populace quite different possibilities through discretion and local knowledge to provide a more dignified care. My question is, how should I, for example, an 80-year-old woman at Finnsnes with a check from the state to buy a care provider get this service if it is not a municipality to facilitate the service provision you are to provide?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e610	The Progress Party believes that the 80-year-old woman at Finnsnes has the same right to make elections as the rest of the population. That is what is the fundamental debate on welfare services, what rights we should have through the different stages of life to make choices. I have to say that I get very worried when it might seem almost as if the Center Party believes that an 80-year-old is unable to make wise choices on his own behalf. So we believe in the fact that older people with a long life experience have clear opinions about what quality they will serve. That is precisely why they should also have the right to opt out services that do not meet their needs. That is what this debate must be about. Then it was not about sending this woman a check. Then it is a matter of facilitating the situation so that she can opt out of the offer in Finnsnes if it is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e615	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e618	Over four years, the Centre-Right government has demonstrated governance, cooperation and cooperation. But above all, the outgoing government has shown political power, action that has improved the future opportunities of students, students, workers and businesses, who have increased the freedom of action of families and individuals and guaranteed the daily lives of sick and elderly people in this country. The Stoltenberg II government is coming to the covered table. The Norwegian economy is very strong. No more Norwegians have ever been in work. Never have so many new businesses been established and Norwegian exports have never been so high. We have cleared up immigration and integration policies, implemented defence reform, reduced waiting lists and waiting times for hospital treatment. Fewer people have payment problems, fewer people need social assistance, and never have so much money been spent on public welfare as it is now. The list could have been considerably longer. I actually have to be allowed to say that it is tempting to say that I really envy the government that is now going on, because it gets the opposite start to its work from what we got four years ago. Norway now has the best starting point to respond to the most important challenge of our time, namely globalisation. That's a starting point we don't have to shake away, but on which it should be built further. It is not that the phenomenon of globalisation is new. What's new is that the changes are stronger, that they happen faster, and that they affect more and more of us. Globalisation is like gravity. It's like it is. It has come to be, and it involves both challenges and opportunities. There is tougher competition on the one hand, but also new and larger markets on the other. But it requires some tough and conscious choices in the future, choices that determine whether we prepare people in Norway to seize the new opportunities, or whether we're going to be overwhelmed by the challenges. That is why it surprises me quite clearly that the government statement has not taken over or answered precisely this question. This issue is simply absent from both the Soria Moria Declaration and the Government Declaration: What are the challenges for Norway in the future, and what are the challenges for us to extend Norway into the future? If this had been taken inward, the answer would not have been more protectionism, increased taxes, halting modernisation, less freedom of choice, more governmental governance and regulation. We don't meet an increased rate of change in society by trying to stop it or protect ourselves from it, because it's not future-oriented to face the future with your back against the wall. We can't shut change out, but we can learn how to deal with change. We can't stop competition, but we can train ourselves to actually win the competition, and it's a political task to make sure that our country does. What it requires is a forward-looking policy in the key areas that make society more robust, not less fragile, and more flexible rather than more rigid. This is why the Right is so concerned with a school and education policy for more knowledge, for increased quality that trains people to deal with the increased rate of change in the future. Because the weakest students are going to lose the most in the future if they are not well prepared through the school and education system. We are committed to an industrial policy for more and better research, innovation and innovation that train enterprises to tackle change and to develop the new products, services and jobs we will live on in the future. It is not a political task to try to prevent conversion; the task is to contribute to the fact that conversion is not the end of anything good, but the beginning of something better. That's why we're so concerned with a welfare policy that ensures security, but which, above all, works to promote social mobility and builds up under the human capacity and will to get out of a difficult life situation and into active work and a life you master, with the self-respect you get from it. That's why we're so concerned with a modernisation policy that makes quality and freedom of choice in public welfare services a good thing for everyone, and not a privilege for those who can afford to pay for it, as the Government obviously wants to do it to. That's why we're so concerned about a foreign policy that makes Norway a participant and not an international spectator. Through a forward-looking policy, we can learn how to deal with the challenges rather than let ourselves be overwhelmed by the challenges of the future. The biggest change that has occurred in Norwegian policy in recent years can be seen from the difference in the government statements of Stoltenberg I and Stoltenberg II. But we're in the same world, and we have the same challenges, except that they're getting bigger and even faster than before. Although the Centre-Right-government has given new governments better scope for action to meet the challenges, we are concerned that the government statement alerts a clear left-wing triangle of policy. I think it is unwise to move more power and more decisions over from the individual into political bodies and public offices. I think it is unwise to lower the knowledge ambitions in Norwegian school. I think it is unwise to shift the focus of industrial policy from innovation to state support and protectionism. It is unwise to meet the future by tightening up the Working Environment Act to make it more difficult for vulnerable groups to enter the labour market. It is unwise to stop the use of competition as a means of improving and increasing health, care and transport services. In particular, it is unwise to put special interests ahead of the interests of the population as a whole. It is unwise to create uncertainty about the petroleum activity in North Norway. It is unwise to alert the use of the EEA veto and to counter the EU Services Directive and to remove WTO policy from the practical reality and open up global taxes. A policy of increased taxes, less modernisation and more protectionism, which creates uncertainty about the implementation of the Knowledge Promise, which lowers the knowledge ambitions and which sets Norway on the sideline of foreign policy, is simply not forward-looking, and it is not preparing this country for the challenges that are facing us more and more. I think everyone in this room is busy doing the best for the people. I think the difference is to what extent we can see the long perspectives and see that the little things have to go in the right direction every single day to get through in a tougher international world. There is a clear link between how we facilitate future value creation today and the well-being we can enjoy tomorrow. When we are as concerned with reforms as the Knowledge promise, the Innovation promise, that we launched during the election campaign, and lower taxes, it is for me because I believe that the five-year-old who starts school next autumn will be prepared for a more demanding working and social life in the future. Because that's the society he's going to meet. That's the society we as adults have the duty to make sure that those who are children today are actually prepared for. That is why it is important for the five-year-old to experience a working and social life in the future that gives him opportunities, which ensure that there is an interesting labour market there to promote, precisely because Norwegian companies still choose to invest in Norway, that the five-year-old should have the security to preserve and develop our welfare society, so that we take care of and stimulate enterprises that create values and pay for well-being. I'm afraid that the Government Declaration, with all its words and visions in all areas other than what goes on in the future, the creation of value and to prepare this society, is rocking by the fundamental connection between value creation today and well-being that we can enjoy tomorrow. Therefore, I am afraid that no matter how much the Prime Minister talks about the future and good opportunities, this can be the government for the lost opportunities, and that the government will give today's five-year-olds a more difficult adult life because neither they nor society are prepared to take advantage of the opportunities they face in the future. Our responsibility as politicians is not just to look at what we are going to do right now for those who are active in professional life and other things today, but it is primarily to make sure that opportunities for today's children are not lost in a short-term policy. I am sorry, but the government statement suggests that there has been a short-term policy and major compromise between three parties. We're losing long-term, and we're losing sight of the future, if we're going to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e650	More than I can see, it will take time to acknowledge that the message that the Right stood for in the election campaign has not been implemented, and the Right's leader will continue this debate with the same messages – and it did not sound particularly appealing – on how to deal with the Kingdom after we have now received a change of government. I followed closely the message Erna Solberg chose to raise. I noticed the fact that Hierre's great promises of strong new tax reliefs are not being taken into account in the contributions of the representative Erna Solberg. So my question is, does this represent a growing recognition that there are not new tax concessions needed in our society, but on the contrary a guarantee of the community's ability to cope with both the educational promise and the care promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e657	I am concerned about what is the aim of our policy, and in what direction it goes. For me, tax relief is an instrument – and it has always been too right – to achieve those objectives. We believe that the level of taxation in Norway must be lower in important areas if we are to be competitive internationally. And I'm recording that what I'm saying in this area, in fact, has broad support from all those I believe the Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party is also meeting at international meetings in social-democratic assemblies. This is nothing but what Gerhard Schröder said in his election campaign, this is nothing but what Tony Blair has as his policy base – it's nothing but what most social democratic parties consistently say is important in order to solve the challenges ahead. Despite the fact that the Labour Party now believes that their model is so good, at least the Labour Party model is not what these countries are looking for. It's actually the mix that the Right has, of lower taxes and bets on knowledge and quality, which is the important thing if we're to ensure the welfare of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e666	The representative Erna Solberg opened his speech by referring to all the good things the outgoing government has got in place, and the good results they have achieved. And much of that is to be praised by the outgoing government. But I also think it is important to challenge the representative of Solberg in those areas where the Right has particularly failed while they have been in government. They include: failure by being involved in preventing development through protection and conservation in the districts. They've built up the Defense Substantial. The infrastructure, with particular focus on the road, has been down-priority with the Right in Government. They have been burdened and broken with the Left and Christian People's Party to maintain bureaucracy, especially the county council. And the Right Government has been the one who has been at the head to prevent the construction of gas power plants. Can we now expect the Right to be set free from the Christian People's Party and the Left in this period? Or will it still be so that the Right connects to these two parties, without having any own meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e675	That's right: when you're in government, you make compromises that don't always make sense to all the issues. But I could have made a much better list of what things we feel we have made compromises in, than the Per Sandberg had. Because in a number of cases mentioned here, there are points that separate us from the Progress Party programme. For example, the Right believes that we also have an administrative responsibility to take care of Norwegian nature. With regard to the issue of why gas power plants have not yet been built, it is primarily due to market conditions. The three concessions given are given. And there have been no changes that would indicate that they have not been built. There has simply been a difference in price. If the representative wants a better reply, I have to whisper at some point what we actually have the compromise, because these are not the things for which I have the worst conscience. In terms of our relationship: the right is going to cooperate with the parties that want the same direction for our society as the Right wants. There we are quite pragmatic. We have experienced in the last period that the center of some points has been closer to this, but I have also experienced that the center of some points has deviated from it. So that's kind of the time the opposition gets to figure out who it is going in the right direction relative to society. Not on all points is the Progress Party closest to us in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e686	The leader of the previous government stood up in the evening post on August 22 and regretted that he had not done enough for the poor. He certainly had reason for that, because during the last government period they got 10 pst. with the lowest income less share of the social shock. And the number of poor children increased in the last four years. The entire poverty package of the previous government represented barely more than a year of tax relief to the richest. And then the questions are, is it that Erna Solberg, like the previous head of government, also regrets that she has prioritised the fight against poverty too low? And isn't she satisfied that at least the new government has a clear goal of abolishing poverty and reducing the economic differences between people?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e693	It might have been interesting if the government had a clear measure of who is poor today. I have recorded in the last few days' debate that the three government parties have relaunched the debate on what the poverty definition should be. I mean, the government that's gone off has made a big effort to lay the foundation for a significant move of people out of the poverty trap in this society. There are no statistics on poverty in the last four years. The last statistics made in this area in this country will be 2003. I would like to be measured by results up to 2005, because until 2003 we had increasing unemployment. In two years' time, when those statistics are completed, I'm going to be involved in discussing whether any of our actions have worked or not. Currently, no statistics say anything about the effects — except for one thing: the costs and the number of clients receiving social assistance in this country. So it went down in 2004. Therefore, one has to wait to measure the results of the previous government until they are measurable. We have laid the groundwork for a vigilance for those who have difficulties in this country to actually get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e702	Also the Right has some rapporteurs around the country, and I want to quote Right-Rapporteur Lars Myraune's statement in Trønder-Avisa on Saturday 15 October this year. He says there that he is pleased with the change of government. He was very dissatisfied with the Bondevik government's proposals for the state budget when it came to municipal economics, and he reacted strongly to a proposal that led to a negative real growth for Frosta Municipality. According to Trender-Avisa, he said: "I told Erna Solberg a long time ago that if the government does not improve the local economy, we will lose the election." As you know, the new government has proposed to increase the free income of municipalities by NOK 5.4 billion. This will lead to good numbers also for Frosta municipality. I want to ask Erna Solberg whether she, as former municipal minister, agrees with the Right-Rapporteur in Frosta that this will contribute to a better economy for the municipalities, and that it is good for the municipality of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e712	I like the growth of the local economy. So it is that, after I spoke to the rapporteur in Frosta – I have been visiting there sometimes and talking about this – the previous government has given significantly increased appropriations to the municipalities. We have systematically given more in revenue each year than the Senterpartiet in the last time they ever got in government, so they contributed to the problems that the municipalities had in this period. But what's going to be the main challenge is not how much more money the municipalities get. The main challenge will be how this is financed. Obviously, if interest rates go up, many of the municipalities will start to wear off again, because the fall in interest rates has contributed to a better economy for many municipalities. If something happens to the major WTO framework conditions, the green industry in Frosta municipality will have major problems. Then that municipality is going to wear extra loads, and the tax entrance is going to be smaller. One of the challenges in many municipalities in the country has been a lack of tax revenue, not a lack of transfers; tax revenue has been low because the Norwegian economy went poorly. Now the tax revenues of municipalities are higher because we've turned the economy around, and that gives a much healthier municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e719	The representative of Solberg was busy that we had to get a robust society, and that we didn't have to go with our backs into the future. She also said that it was no political task to stop the switchover. I totally agree with that. But conversion and efficiency are not the same as post-competition and privatisation. Right had the slogan ‘More for the money’. But they have never presented the counterpart in terms of privatisation and outsourcing, such as including the costs of increased red tape, consulting and supply business. In fact, this privatisation business now threatens safety both in aviation and in the railways. Does not all of this show that postponing competition and privatization are more an expression of an ideology than a reasonable solution to the challenges we face when it comes to renewing society?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e726	I fully agree that conversion is much more than competitive outsourcing and privatisation. It seems that the left-hand side of Norway is trying to put an equal sign between these two things. When we had a programme called ‘More for money’ in 2003, there was much more action and much more than outsourcing. One of the important things that happens is that a systematic think about how the money is spent, both in public and elsewhere, is for example. one has to set quality objectives. If it is more bureaucratic that municipalities or state institutions actually set the standards of quality in different instances – that you can actually see where the deviations are and see if the service is bad – I am willing to have the little more bureaucracy. One of the things that has happened, and that you often say from the left side and from the trade union movement, leads to more bureaucracy, is that you've started talking about the quality of care for the elderly, that we need to know something about this, we need to know if it's good or bad. It's for me an improvement and not a red tape.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e736	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e739	I wish Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and his government good luck with a responsible act. The Prime Minister is well prepared for the task, and he has a capable and experienced crew. The Norwegian political system is more united than conflict. Despite political divisions, the parties have traditionally been more concerned with finding good solutions for the country than with showing disagreement for the sake of the disagreement. The Christian People's Party wants to contribute to the continuation of such values in Norwegian politics. We will therefore be an offensive but also a constructive opposition party. That's why it's more than a courtesy phrase when we want the new government to succeed. It is important for the people of greatness and government to serve together. I have noticed that both the Prime Minister and several of his government councils have said that the government will listen to wise input from the opposition and seek broad solutions in the Storting when it is right for it. This is promising, but it has to be confirmed in action. Although the red-green parties have a majority, it would be unwise to leave a large minority without influence for four years. It should not be forgotten that almost 1.3 million voters voted for one of the four opposition parties. The co-operation administration has provided a good basis for the new government. The state of the Kingdom is good. For four years in a row, the United Nations has named Norway the world's best country to live in. Our healthy economy makes it possible to further build the welfare community. We have a unique opportunity to address the major challenges facing the future. The latest government budget for cooperation is a good starting point for the Government to make its additional proposal. The Bondevik government budget for 2006 is a programme for better well-being, freedom of choice and flexibility for the families of young children and a strong effort for the poor in Norway and in developing countries. I am particularly proud that we are following up the fight against poverty. Since the Cooperation Government took over the staf stick in 2001, aid to the world’s poor has increased by DKK 6.2 billion. The aid share of gross national income has increased from 0,89 pst. to 0.96 pst. Nothing is more important to the Christian People's Party than the struggle for a fairer world. Poverty violates human dignity every day and keeps billions of people in links. Every three seconds, a child dies of poverty. I hope the new government will follow up this effort and increase assistance further. The Christian People's Party will take care not to forget the world's poorest. The co-operation government has also increased its efforts to combat poverty in our own country. With 326 new million dollars for targeted measures against poverty and alcohol, the level of such measures has increased by 1.6 billion dollars since 2002. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I said that I was going to fight poverty as hard as I fought for the Smoking Act. That programme statement I intend to take with me into Stortinget. No one should be in doubt about the social heart of the Christian People's Party. The new government has set ambitious targets for poverty reduction, and that is good. But it's an act that counts. The Christian People's Party is going to be a vigil in Stortinget – for the poorest, the sickest and the most vulnerable. It has been interesting to read the political platform of the new government, the Soria Moria declaration, and the declaration of accession presented to us yesterday. The Christian People's Party shares many of the objectives of the new government, and we are going to make sure that it follows up its programme declarations in these areas. In a number of areas, a continuation of the good line of the Co-operation Board is envisaged. I record that, among other things, is the case in most labour and social policies. It is not least important that the major reform of labour and welfare management, which is now under way, is followed up by the plan. This is good. At the same time it is surprising, all the time the three parties that are currently in government, had a very tough tone in the welfare debate in the previous period, and not least in the election campaign. But the Stoltenberg government is also taking a different course than the Christian People's Party wants in a number of important policy areas. This concerns family policy, the fight against the sorting society, the biotechnology law, the free schools, and respect for freedom of belief and parts of district policy relating to the relocation of state jobs. The families of young children will mark a different course, through less flexibility and less freedom of choice. Although the red-green parties in their declaration do not go in to completely remove the cash support scheme, their entire thinking is that the role of families in society is devalued. The government does not even have its own family minister, and in the declaration the word ‘family’ is hardly mentioned. The Soria Moria declaration is not clear on the final fate of the cash support. With all the promises made by the government parties, the cash support is affordable for cutting in the tough budgetary rounds that awaits. The government announces a limited form of cash support. We fear that this is the beginning of the end of cash support and freedom of choice for Norwegian young children's parents, and we challenge the Government to be clear about what the young children's parents can expect in the years to come. The Soria Moria statement shows that the government is giving us the right thing we said during the election campaign, that it is not possible to achieve full child care coverage if you simultaneously remove the cash support during this period. The Christian People's Party shares the Government's goal of kindergarten at a reasonable price to everyone who wants it. At the same time, it is important for us to ensure good quality of nursery services. We must not be so focused on price that we lose focus on quality. The pedagogical offer is the pedagogical support of the nursery, and qualified staff are essential for children to benefit from the stay and a good daily life. Fortunately, the Storting still has a family committee. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party will lead this important committee. We're going to make sure that family policies are put on the agenda, and we're going to fight a fight for the time and freedom of choice of young children's parents. The Christian People's Party is a Christian Democratic Party, and we will be the leading center party. It is the content of the policy that will determine who we work with in the individual cases. We'll be an open and inclusive set of values. Our goal is to create the best possible society for everyone and not let us govern the special interests of individual groupings. We'll lead in the value debate that's more than heads and ears. To say it with my teammate Sigvart Dayland: «There is enough of those counting numbers that get truth out as the sum of decimals». Christian democracy involves a third way — between socialism and liberalism. Some have claimed that the ideologies are dead. I'm protesting! Long-term governance requires ideological awareness. Without any stars to navigate by, politics is easily ad hoc and unprincipled, some say populistic. Christian People's Party will pursue a policy based on the inviolable human dignity, which means the fight against all forms of discrimination and the sorting of radical negotiable ideas, which means that we must be a voice for all vulnerable human beings, the responsibility for managing the environment and resources, which means sustainable management; The Christian People's Party has a different social view than the socialist one, on which the two largest government parties base their policies. We don't think society can be ruled from above as a machine, or that political decisions can always lead us to exactly what we want. The community is more like a living organism that grows from below, where the different parts interact with each other. We will give the various parts of the organism freedom to flourish, and that means that as politicians we must be willing to give influence over everyday life to individuals, families, voluntary organisations, community, religious communities and businesses. The Christian People's Party will build society from below. We will emphasise personal responsibility and the freedom of choice of families and stimulate voluntary action. We want to ensure local democracy and the ability of local communities to find their own way. We will fight for diversity at all levels and against any attempt to reconcile faith or thought. The Christian People's Party will challenge ideological debate. We need good discussions about which principles and ideas are to govern social development. Only in this way can we avoid a unilateral 'gallup democracy', where the media agenda and the media's mentometers are also becoming our political agenda. The Christian People's Party Youth Organisation asked a few years ago the question: What are you doing today with tomorrow? The size now stands at four very important years. As elected representatives, we have to ask the question every day: What do we do – what do I do – today with tomorrow? Tasks are queued: How can we ensure a safe growth environment for children and young people?How can we build a welfare society that includes everyone?How can we solve the global environmental problems that threaten the basis of life for future generations?How can we contribute to a more equitable world and fight poverty? In this way, the future lies in our hands. Tomorrow becomes what we make it. The Christian People's Party's new big group is looking forward to addressing these challenges in collaboration with other parties at Stortinget!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e844	I noticed with interest and rejoiced that Højbräten accepted the Prime Minister's invitation for cooperation. In a number of areas, the Christian People's Party has traditionally cooperated with the Workers' Party, with the Centre Party, with SV on the political direction – among others. in the policy of distribution and district policy — while the Right and the Progressive Party have been in charge of a different policy. In the government position, the Christian People's Party left these positions in several areas and gave a majority for the Right and Advance Party line. The question now is: Will we in future see a Christian People's Party that sees itself as part of a cooperative constellation in the Great Britain that strives for common positions between the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, or will the Christian People's Party find its way back to the policy that they themselves stood for before they entered the government? And how does the leader of the Christian People's Party view the right-leader's ambition to build a broad civil cooperation that embraces both the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e851	The Christian People's Party has not at all abandoned its political position or its political positions in the last four years. We have cooperated and achieved results far beyond the political and parliamentary basis of the Christian People's Party. There has been great irritation for many, but at the same time great joy for the people who have been affected by these political results. We're going to continue our line as a center party. As we were a center party in the center-right government, we're going to be a center party in the opposition. We want to cooperate with all the parties in Stortinget. But of course we will have important experiences and important political achievements with us that will shape our work in the Great Britain during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e858	The representative of the Højbrätten mentioned the good social profile of the Bondevik government. I'm going to challenge him a little bit in relation to that. What you see in these days and have seen in recent years is an increasing electricity price. It hits those who have little, and most people. The last Bondevik government did before it went off, was to raise the electricity charge to over 10 cents. In addition, the balancing of network tariffs has been removed, which will lead to a much higher level of network rental. The latter has been an important feature of the Progress Party in budgetary negotiations, where we have managed to reintroduce this cohesion. My question to Højbrätten will be: Do you still want a social profile in terms of power, and ask people to go to the social office and cover the electricity bill, as Einar Steensnæs did a few years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e867	It is a clear objective of the social policy of the Christian People's Party, and it was for the social policy of the Bondevik government, that more people should do without social assistance. As the representative of Ms Solberg pointed out earlier in the debate, there has actually been fewer dependence on social assistance in 2004 than in 2003. It is also important that the energy policy we pursue contributes to this within the legal and market conditions under which energy policy must be designed. There is no goal for people to be dependent on the social office to be able to pay their electricity bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e874	There is little doubt that it is bad to have little in a country where most have very much. Small differences between people are a hallmark of Norway and a good one, but it is not of course a good one. Differences in Norway have increased in recent years. The number of people in poverty has increased, while the number of billionaires has doubled in the last year, and the increase in the number of Norwegian millionaires has been higher than 10,000 since 2003. We find children in the statistics who are afraid to go to school, who are bullied because they are different, who learn to lie to cover up the shamed family feel that they don't have what everyone else has. But that's our shame they carry. Will the Christian People's Party be a drag to reduce the differences in Norway now that they are freed from the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e881	Yes, the Christian People's Party will face a targeted fight against poverty in relation to the children who experience families struggling financially, in relation to children of drug users, in relation to children in families where parents get ill, in relation to the homeless, in relation to people who are long-term dependent on social assistance. The type of targeted action we have over this period shown works, and we want more of it. This shows the budget proposals of the previous government. But we don't want to put ourselves on the line that SV is on – but for which they obviously haven't had a great deal of impact on Soria Moria – by increasing performance in all areas, so that more people become dependent on social benefits. Work and activity are the most important way out of poverty, not a general increase in benefits. I also see in the Evening Post today that according to the SV definition of poverty there has been a decline in the proportion of the poor under the government of Bondevik. It shows that this game of numbers and statistics is not particularly focused.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e890	I understand that the Højbråten is pleased that we have a government that has as its offensive aim the eradication of poverty in the country. I believe that the Christian People's Party is also pleased that we are getting a government that, based in Stortinget, can achieve CO2 removal from gas power plants. I therefore believe that there is a basis for good dialogue with the Christian People's Party in the future. I also believe that the Christian People's Party will be pleased that we, for example. have received tax credits for gifts to non-governmental organisations. But my question is in relation to the cash support for which the Høybråten was nervous, but which is guaranteed to continue in the new government: Is not the Christian People's Party happy to continue the cash support based on the family values that Høybråten stressed, and which allows one of the parents to continue to choose cash support if you are at home with the children? Is that not a good solution to the family values of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e898	The Christian People's Party is pleased with all those who join a targeted fight against poverty, but I must be allowed to note that the representative Sundsbø has joined the Workers' Party, as the last time they had government, the fight against poverty did not do very much. It is very good that the government statement has now set itself bold goals, and we will judge the Government for its actions in this way. And we hope that it doesn't go into a line that involves creating more traps of poverty. In the case of cash support, it is good that the cash support is continued. But there are wordings in the Soria Moria statement that I had hoped and still hope that this debate will clarify what really means, compared to the thousands of young children's parents who receive cash support. In the case of cash support, it shall continue in a limited form. What in the world does that mean? It should be possible for the Government and the Government parties to respond during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e906	Dagfinn Højbrätten called the Bondevik II government budget a programme for better welfare and strong efforts for the poor, and it was almost a small Soria Moria statement in itself. That's why I have a question for Højbrätten whether he would like to reveal a small state secret: Has the Christian People's Party ever counted on how many more long-term unemployed, how many more young people, social clients and immigrants could have had room to work or on measures for the 23 billion dollars already given in tax bills, plus the new ones proposed, but of the voters now canceled the reliefs? It would perhaps be more pleasant to leave without having to cut down 5000 action spaces, but now the high break has got a withdrawal period. My last question is about the Christian People's Party now actually feels freer to accept the cooperation invitation from Stoltenberg. The summit says he's achieved a lot, but he now sees the opportunity to achieve more in the field of poverty. It must be flattering that the majority would like to have a Christian People's Party on the team.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e913	There will be no more jobs by more measures. It is important to have an offensive package of measures, and it has been and has been proposed for the next year by the Co-operation Board. But the most important thing, and what was the aim of the tax reliefs and probably one of the reasons why the representative Christoffersen's party voted for most of them – not with her voice in the hall at the time – was to create values so that we could distribute them, as the Prime Minister said yesterday. It's actually happened. Tax revenue is increasing, and it gives more to distribution to well-being, it gives more to the unemployed, it gives more to the poor, and it gives more to the sick. It is a policy that the Christian People's Party is not ashamed of at all. I would also like to thank you for your cooperation, both from one side and the other, and I would like to say that if you really thought seriously by the majority parties to invite the Christian People's Party to cooperate, you might have behaved a little differently in relation to things that the Christian People's Party has put very high, namely the fight against the sorting society, the biotechnology law, ensuring the special status of marriage in the legislation, and not least to have offensive family policies and to mention the family at all in the government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e918	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e921	I was a little uncertain today about what sort of expectations you should have for the first proper day of debate and work in the United Kingdom after four years of government, whether you should be gentle or tired. But I have to say that I have a basic joy in having this debate with a party that has become considerably larger and is beginning to approach a size that the Left should have in our country's parliament. Because it is a paradox that the Left, which four years ago lost the election and fell below the barrier, was invited in and took part in government for four years. After this election, we've increased the Left's population five times, but we lost the government power. I have to be so personal to say, having been elected to this house for more than 12 years now, that as Left-Representative and Left-Leader it is also nice to be able to walk around in daylight with straight back and stare at the great Left-Heads hanging around on the walls. This election has made us now have three centre parties that are equivalent in size, and the Left is going to use these years in Stortinget to indicate that we are going to be the social and liberal center party that stands for modern solutions for citizens of the village and city. Of course, it is our goal that the barrier limit should definitely be set behind us in the face of new elections, because we believe – and I think there are many voters out there who also believe it – that it is natural and correct in Norway too that we have a medium-sized – at least – liberal centre party, as the Nordic countries and very many of the other European countries have, and which embraces wider than many have perceived that the Left does so far. The left in the Stortinget shall be clear as a school party, based on knowledge, respect and seriousness. We're going to have a clear social profile and will give priority to those who need it the most, rather than giving more to everything and everyone. There may be a main distinction between a liberal and a socialist approach to welfare issues. And we'll still be a leading environmental party and a leading party for small businesses and innovation. Of course, with regard to the Soria Moria Declaration and the political days we've had before and after the government change, these are always special. I guess we can actually talk a little bit about the sweetness of the wheat-bread days, where those who are involved talk to each other in small words and big words. We understand the joy and feelings associated with it. And that's also the way that we're looking at this, we're getting a little bit fascinated by this. We have the greatest respect for that. But there will be a lot of words, and it has also shaped speeches and the Prime Minister's posts both yesterday and today. However, I would like to say that we have a lot in common when it comes to investing in welfare tasks. But neither are those who want more money for everything above public budgets, per year. definition is the most fair and the most solid. It is not that a dogmatic view of how to solve tasks also in the public sector is best for well-being. I had almost said: the ideological transition, or at least the little tricks that have been, from the Stoltenberg I to the Stoltenberg II government can prove to help us get more expensive and poorer solutions than better well-being. We have a lot of examples of money not getting where they were supposed to when the promises are too rusty. The new government has a more dogmatic view. At least we have heard that in the rhetoric of the election campaign, which is still left in this debate as regards attitudes towards tax relief. However, it is important to say that welfare is created in the interaction between the public and private sectors, between Community solutions and individual freedom and responsibility. The government has in some ways the socialists' clockwork that all problems can be solved with more money in the public sector. But it's not that simple. I have also noticed that the Prime Minister was so far in the field of asylum policy in his speeches. I am also pleased that he said something about the need for labour immigration – first on demand today – in order to increase the capacity of the economy and ensure sufficient labour to continue to create value and increase well-being, because we need more hands. There must be greater room in the economy if one is to follow up the records of the Cooperative Government — that is, the estranged government — in terms of the number of start-ups. There must be no struggle for the skilled labour force, where small businesses and innovation are losers. Then we will lose thousands or move into thousands of jobs, without our society being improved for that reason. It is true that when Stoltenberg again takes over the government power in Norway, there are 55,000 more businesses than it was when he left the government office in 2001. If we are to take care of the foundations of prosperity in Norway in the long term, the government of Stoltenberg has to deliver such a figure – and I hope it will be delivered in four years’ time. This is perhaps the most important challenge, which the Government has little affected in the debate or in its speeches so far. I also fear that the dogma of the Government jeopardizes the implementation of the tax reform, including the great reform of justice relating to the relationship between taxes on labour and capital. There is a lot of good said about it in the Soria Moria statement, but the words and rhetoric afterwards have definitely not gone in such a direction. The Norwegian tax system still needs to do something about it. It is positive that the Government will implement the main features of the knowledge reform of the Bondevik government. But we're going to be very careful when the school's game no. 1, SV, is set to implement this. That's why we choose to be constructively sceptical. Prime Minister Stoltenberg said a little about local democracy. There are a few nice words in the Soria Moria document, but it stands in stark contrast to government party practice in, for example. the nursery policy, as we saw in the previous period, and others want to govern the municipalities in detail. One eye-catching point, particularly when the Prime Minister has recruited two prominent Secretary-Generals from the voluntary sector to his government, is the use of words about the voluntary sector as ‘a complement to public services’. You world! There's an ideological distinction here if it's not corrected. These are independent, important factors in the Norwegian community that are something significantly more than government branches. I hope it's not an ideological confusion that has arisen here, and that it can be resolved. The Prime Minister also said that the Government has great ambitions in environmental policy. Of course, we in the Left are pleased about that. But also in this field, what remains to be seen is what comes out of the wretched formulations when force socialists, protection break politicians and true environmental friends in the same government are to coordinate their policies from day to day. We'll probably come back to that in later articles from the left. The left has also noted the Prime Minister's invitation to cooperation, including with the opposition, although the Government has a majority in this Chamber. Yes, we're going to take advantage of that! The left will take the Prime Minister's words seriously in this regard. Although we have some other experience with the Prime Minister's party and the President's party for many years in the exercise of government, we are willing to put it behind us and see what's in this invitation. We're going to meet it with open arms, because we hope that this futility in the statement will also stand in everyday life. The Left should also contribute to this. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Left will use these four years, which we expect will be in opposition, to draw a clear social, liberal and well-centred party that stands for modern solutions. We want to use this opportunity to demonstrate the pure policy of the Left and use it as a basis to grow on. But after two major periods, where the Left has participated in two different governments that have been cooperative governments, no one shall doubt the ability of the Left to cooperate with other parties in government. The day an election result requires cooperation that also includes the Left, which includes parties with which we can politically cooperate, and with which we can ideologically cooperate, we are of course ready to do it again, based on strength and with clear self-policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e958	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e961	Even though the Left has grown larger, perhaps the Left's leader would stand by not giving full strength to the characteristics of his political opponents. But leave it in this context. I have noticed that after the election, the Left has expressed clear ambitions for its role in the centre. At the latest today, the leader of the Left has underlined the social and liberal tradition and anchoring of the Left. At the same time, after the elections, we have heard the ambition of the Right Leader for broader civil cooperation. I noticed that Sponheim in the World Gang on June 16 thought loudly about a more open and closer cooperation with the Progress Party. At the same time, sharp reactions came from his two nest leaders the next day. In the newspaper Olaf Thommessen said that the Left should be the guarantor of a continued bourgeois government without the Advance Party, and Trine Skei Grande said that it would be ‘indispensable to agree with FrP on a platform’. What is Left's vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e968	The view of the left – and more than vision, in fact in action – has emerged clearly in the four-year period we have behind us, and in the four-year period before that too, and expresses which party we can cooperate with in government. The policies, the political divisions, the political positions, the view of economic policy, the use of money, the view of labour immigration, the view of environmental policy and many things have so far made it impossible for the Left to be in government cooperation with the Progress Party. All I know about the policies of the Progress Party, as outlined in this debate and in other contexts, suggests that it will be the situation in the future as well. But I can somehow, and that's what I expressed in that interview, not be a liberal who decides that that position and that view of other parties should I have at all times. I'm actually open enough to take parties seriously. I am open enough to take seriously the new parliamentary leader of the Progress Party and say: What does she want with her party? Will she change her point of view? Is it possible, over time, to start coordinating positions more? I don't know about that today, but as far as my eye is on politics now, being in government cooperation with the Progress Party is an out-of-date issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e973	It is obvious that the representative Sponheim is both a little excited and perhaps a little rushed by the great progress towards the Left, at least when we talk about percentage – he is here called "five times". I also want to remind you that there are other political parties on the non-socialist side that have made progress in the election, although perhaps the Left has not been so much focused on it. At the same time, Sponheim is not able to completely conceal that he is dissatisfied with giving up the government power and losing influence, and that is natural. He already announces a shift in four years. But it's not going to be part of that multiple. Then my question is, shall the Left and the other bourgeois parties be able to get to a multiple without the Progress Party to tilt over? Or do you expect the Progress Party to still be a passive supporter of a non-socialist government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e980	Of course, if it is desirable for the representative, Mr Hagesetter, it is not a problem to congratulate the Progress Party on a good election too! Of course, this is nice for the representative Hagesetter and for the Progress Party. But at least on behalf of the Left, I can use an expression that some newspapers use, that is to say, 'increases the most', about the Left. I think there's a lot of understanding in the big room for the Left's leader to enjoy a good election result. I am definitely not dissatisfied with it, although I would like to see it, for the sake of the country, that there was a basis for continued non-socialist government cooperation. Now, when it comes to talking about eventualities in a four-year election, and what that election result can give, I think it's going to be pretty pointless at the beginning of an opposition life in the Storting where the opposition is in obvious minority. But the way politics is today, and the way the parties appear in this debate, it is obvious to me that it is the Right and Christian People's Party that are the Left Cooperation Parties in a future government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e987	The representative Sponheim said he was going around looking at the old Left Chiefs. And it is, because at the time they were at the worst – and best – they became cooperatively founded. We know that it happened at the end of the 1800s in England. We also see now that as globalisation increases, the cooperative is a good way to organise parts of society, whether it relates to consumer cooperation or to Norwegian farmers who process and sell their products through agricultural cooperation. We also know that when it comes to the WTO and the possible reductions in support for Norwegian farmers, creative thinking is needed to sustain employment and the good use of resources in the districts. And the non-trade distorting support, so-called green box, provides great potential for Norwegian agriculture. How will the Left contribute constructively to the preservation of the power of the cooperative giving the individual farmer, and how will the Left contribute to the formulation of the agricultural policy that will be opened up with more green agricultural support?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e993	It was a lot in one minute. Let me first say: when we talk about the old proud Left Chiefs, it reminds me in these days of formerly many times Minister of Agriculture Haakon Five of the North-Trundellag, as the Bonde Party disagreed so much with that time in the 1930s because he did not stand for a quite such a regulatory stance in agricultural policy, that it was perhaps one of the most contributing causes of the great peasant agreement, or crisis settlement, with the Workers' Party. It's been 70 years. We'll see if it goes into 70 next time. It is the case that the Government announced yesterday — and as described in today’s newspapers — about movements in the WTO, today’s market regulation through the cooperative is put under pressure by the need to liquidate or reduce significant parts of the target price system and the managed price system in agriculture. This gives the cooperative a new role, but perhaps at least an equally important role, because the cooperative has to do many of these tasks on its own. It's not going to be anything less, but it's going to be a whole new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1002	I will begin by congratulating Lars Sponheim and Left with a good election result. So I'm going to continue to say that in this government it's going to be the Center Party that takes care of important central issues related to local democracy, related to the management of natural resources and to a policy of equal opportunities for work, well-being and development throughout the country. Following the election, Sponheim in LIBERAL stated that the Left alone should conquer the central role of Norwegian politics. The analysis is that the Center Party is lost to LO, while the Christian People's Party must recapture the voters who have been lost to the Advance Party. Although this may be thin, and it may seem to us that the distance inside the left is larger than between the center parts, it is most interesting that Sponheim says very little about what his new center should contain, except that it should be modern. So my question is, what is Sponheim going to fill its center with, except for economic liberalism? Isn't this going to be pretty tight when he's defined all the other center parts?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1011	Let me first express the pleasure of wishing a new generation. There may be a basis for a long and important and good career in Norway. I also believe – as I understood it in the name of the campaign – that we have got a new Away that may have a bigger heart for the center case than what the leadership of his party has today. The left is a center party. I'm tired enough to admit to the representative Ola Borten Moe that it's also the Center Party, as I see it. Even though we have a lot of inequalities and choose different direction of cooperation, we're running out of the same root, as so many people have said many times. I want to have a good cooperation on the things we can work together on. It's wrong when someone with ruling techniques in this room is trying to call Left a right party, as Prime Minister Stoltenberg does, or is talking about economic liberality. The left stands for — and at least seeks — the good balance between economic freedom and the Community’s solutions. We're still going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1018	The Party Programme of the Left shall state the following sentence on school policy: ‘For the Left, the school has always been one of the nation’s main social projects.’ That is a very good ideological starting point. And the Left's school program is mostly good reading. The previous government largely shared the political issues between themselves, and the Right was allowed to dominate school policy. So my first question in this room is: does the Left want to stick to the link to the Right in school policy, or does the Left want to cooperate towards the centre-left of a social knowledge school? I think we have a lot in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1028	This is Anniken Huitfeldt's first question. There might be more. There's a lot of work to do in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1031	Yeah, since the president says it, I don't have to repeat it. But I also hope and believe it. It's right and important, as the replicator here says, for the left, the school case is perhaps one of the most important things. The guiding thread throughout the history of the Left has been the need to have a school that offers equal opportunities to individuals who have very different backgrounds and different assumptions. I think this is going to be even more important in the years to come. I think maybe the most important social project we're facing is to capture the students at school and give them opportunities for knowledge to balance differences later in life and participate in social development. But it has to be that the basis for the school is knowledge. We have shared this in an excellent way with the Right and Christian People's Party in the government project that we have now put behind us. It has to be basic and important to make school a knowledge school. I am pleased to see that now the new government also wants to continue the Knowledge promise. It's respect for the teacher who's the basics of a knowledge school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1038	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1041	The elections in September gave Norway a new political majority and a new political landscape was drawn up. The Bondevik government, with the parliamentary support of the Progress Party, lost its majority on the Stortinget. So the new government has a majority behind it in the Storting. 1985 was the last time Norway had a majority government. Over the last ten to twelve years, our minority rule has been marked by unforeseeableness, and sometimes the political game around the budget and individual matters has overshadowed the policy itself and its content. With a new majority, we now have a stable and predictable political regime for four years. That is good for the political system, and that is good for the reputation of politics among people. In meeting with the voters in four new years it will be clear who is responsible. We can't blame for a hard-to-reach collapse, as the Bondevik government sometimes did. The Soria Moria Declaration and the new government create a new focus in Norwegian policy. The centre-left is the new and clarified centre of gravity of Norwegian policy. It's nothing new that the center and the left work together here in Stortinget. We have been doing this for many years, including: on the State budget. The new thing is that we should also work together in government. The parties have spent time developing the cooperation, and today we can establish that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have succeeded in overcoming the distance that was initially present. The three batches are well collapsed. This interaction has taken place over several years through the work of Stortinget. The Soria Moria declaration shows that the necessary political compromises were possible. The bourgeois parties have had a majority on the Stortinget for several years, but have not been able to develop similar cooperation. Therefore, the bourgeois option also appeared to be formless and chaotic in meeting with the voters this autumn. It's going to be interesting to see how the parties on the civil side will now act. Do they want to use the opposition role to fine-tune their different batch profiles, or do they want to use the time in the opposition to develop cooperation? Although the three government parties have a majority in the Stortinget, we want to have an open and good relationship with the four opposition parties on the Stortinget. We add up to broad majority solutions where there are possibilities for that. As the leader of the Workers' Group, I would like to contribute to that. A lot goes well in Norway. The country has a strong economy and unique opportunities. We will use these opportunities to create more justice and to secure work for all. The new government will invest in Community solutions and thus solve the major health, care and education tasks. Strong community is the foundation wall we're going to build on. The new government will put the welfare ahead of tax laws. That was the message we went to elections on, and we also got used to it. The parties that continued to promise new tax relief and more privatisation did not get ahead with their message. The new government will pursue a forward-looking policy of creating values. Our natural resources provide a potential for value creation throughout the country. The State shall engage in a broad field of industrial policy, through innovation tools and through partnerships with private business actors. During the next few weeks, the new government will be working on its changes in the government budget presented by the Bondevik government, and we will see that in important areas policy will change already this autumn. The new government will strengthen the local government's economy by several billion dollars, so that municipalities will have a better chance of providing a good school and a safe care for the elderly. The new government will invest heavily in more and cheaper kindergartens. And the new government will quickly propose changes to the Working Environment Act in order to reverse impairments in workers' rights. In recent years, we have seen that the differences have increased in Norwegian society. A new policy is therefore needed to create less economic differences and to ensure that more of those currently poor can live on their own income. In a rich country like Norway, poverty is not to be accepted. The government will present a comprehensive plan in which efforts to get people out of poverty will be greatly reinforced. The Soria Moria declaration is the basis upon which the Government is to govern. Political governance and partnership with all good and constructive forces in society will achieve the objectives. The government has also today repeated its invitation to the whole process of participation in this work — to make Norway an even better country for everyone to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1062	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1065	Many around the Municipality of Norway have expectations and are positive about all the promises made by the new government. Municipalities need a strong economic foundation. The opinions of the National Government of the KS are that the needs for 2006 are far greater than these free revenues promised by the Government. They believe the need is NOK 6.6 billion, without any promises from the Government. How is this difference to be financed? That is where the Progress Party is concerned. Is it the property tax around Municipality-Norway that is going to finance this, the most unfair tax we have for large families with children, widows with large houses and, not least, business? The question is: is property tax to be introduced in Kommune-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1074	I notice that the representative Thomsen is concerned with the free income of Norwegian municipalities. It's also the new government. That's why the government has a perfectly crystal clear promise in its Soria Moria statement, that the free revenues will increase by SEK 5.4 billion next year. This is a huge increase. But the government also has a commitment to step up the municipal economy in the years to come, through a plan. So I notice that Thomsen is also concerned with the free income, not just earmarked funds. In the case of property taxes, property taxes are currently a voluntary municipal tax. It is clear from the Soria Moria declaration that the government parties believe it should continue to be so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1082	It is not only in the main hall that the clear signals of the government statement of greater transparency and participation have been noticed. It also applies to the greater part of society. With the special commitment of the Labour Party to the LO, many organisations in Norway, not least in the labour market, are excited about what this new openness means in practice. A chance to show it has the government and government parties in the follow-up to the budget. In the Bondevik government's budget proposal, it is announced that it will be natural to invite the YS, the UN, the Academics and the SAFO to participate in the social security negotiations, where only the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, the FFO and the LO are currently allowed to participate. Will the Workers' Party follow up this invitation from the Bondevik government and thus demonstrate in practice what the new transparency line can mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1091	In fact, I believe that in parts of the opposition parties on the Stortinget it has long advised the misunderstanding that professional political cooperation is only about cooperation between the Labour Party and the LO-organised. It's a big misunderstanding. With professional-political cooperation, at least the Labour Party believes – and has always meant – that it is about cooperating with all the major and important professional organisations in this country, whether they belong to LO or not. It will also be the policy of the new government. There is no doubt about it, so transparency for the new government also means openness in relation to the full-width organisation Norway. With regard to individual proposals in the budget, I do not endorse them today. The government must be allowed to come back to that. They shall have a few weeks to make their changes in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1098	Ten years ago, Hill-Marta Solberg was Minister of Social Affairs in Norway and made a big announcement about the welfare society where the perspectives were to point out the modernisations, transitions and changes needed to meet the major challenges of a world that was tougher international. I only have one specific question, since it is impossible to read something like this from the government statement: What new social reforms will help make us competitive in the future, will the Labour Party and the new government propose to implement? I am not thinking of the reforms that have already been adopted on the initiative of the previous government, namely the NAV – new labour and welfare management – and the pension reform. What other new reforms will the Government propose to follow up what was thus the main idea of Social Minister Hill-Marta Solberg working on ten years ago, and which was the Labour Party's perspective on the problems, until they entered into this cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1105	It's nice that in a day like this we can also talk about things where those who represent the new government parties and the departed government parties are very much in agreement. One of the really important tasks for the new government is the pension reform, where the party of Erna Solberg also fully agrees with what the new government is going to do. Here we have a difficult task ahead of us in Norway, which is good that a broad political landscape is behind us. When the representative Erna Solberg calls for new reforms in the social field, I believe that one of the most important tasks we will be working on in the years to come is to ensure that we get people out of unemployment. Social policy must then also be structured in such a way that the main objective is to get people to work. Earlier today, we have been asked where we are going to pick up labour from. Today we have 100 000 unemployed. There is no doubt that reforms are required, both in labour market policy and in social policy, to ensure that those who are outside today are also able to participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1112	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1115	Yesterday it was a special day for SV. We had memorials over two of the top SVs that we've had, Hanna Kvanmo and Finn Gustavsen. Immediately afterwards we had the statement where we said that SV would go to government. We know that both Hanna Kvanmo and Finn Gustavsen would be happy that SV would go to government, and they would look forward to this day. It's not just those who would have been happy about it. In the SV, not only are we sitting centrally, but also people out in the local organisation who are very happy that SV has come so far that we have now come into government, and can try to implement a good part of our policy. We don't think this is a short-term matter. I believe that this is probably more long-term than the opposition is hoping for. If you look at other countries around us, England, Sweden and others, we see that we have much longer periods where people sit and rule. I believe that Norway must have the objective – at least this government has – that this should be something that lasts at least two periods, perhaps for three periods, where we can sit at the rudder and make some fundamental changes in the Norwegian society, which, in the opinion of the SV, is necessary. It is not that the previous government has taken control of the country. The government that went off a few days ago also did a number of good things, but there are some directions that have been wrong. So they've worked out some directions with the wrong direction. That's the directions we now have to take back, and once again get the Norwegian community on a new course, which we think is absolutely necessary. Let me mention three areas where I think the course is wrong. The first is that we have laboriously built up some common benefits with a strong welfare society. There has been the main cause of differential equivalency in Norway. These common things have begun to crumble away. If we don't take them back and call about the common good, we will no longer have a welfare society where there is a great equality between people. We can take school as an example. If we didn't have the single school, where the daughter of the director and the son of the unemployed got the same offer, we would have had a completely different society today. When the outgoing government began to take this important step by creating private solutions, a new course is needed. It also happens in a number of other areas of society that they want to switch to more private solutions and less common resources. The fact that Norway is the world's best country to live in, I think it's probably because we're rich in natural resources, but it's also because of the perspective that we've been focusing on a welfare society with these strong common resources. Another area we have to change is the huge speed we've seen when it comes to privatisation. We have had a privatisation in the last four years that is formidable in many areas, not least by opening up fundamental infrastructure services, and also by selling down and selling out important natural resources that Norway has so much of. This government has said that now we're stopping it. We're going to stop it, and we're actually going to reverse some things. The railway that we have should not be private. Railways are an important infrastructure in Norway with which we actually believe that public authorities should be in charge. I could have mentioned a number of other examples, but I only have one minute left, and then I have to talk about district policy. Because this government is also saying clearly that we are finally going to have our own small community policy. And we who travel around Norway know that a number of the communities that we are so happy in, and that today live, are gone in 20 years if nothing happens. If the 20 preceding years repeat themselves one more time, we know that many of our small communities are gone. That is why the statement by Soria Moria states that we should now have our own small-scale community effort. I think that the mix of the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV will make sure that we can actually get a lot of action so that part of the smallest communities can also exist in the future, because they are some of Norway's souls these small communities that we have from North Cape to Lindesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1130	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1133	It's obvious that Ryan's in happiness, and he'll be allowed to be there for a little while. The Socialist Left Party calls for us to have a better school, and in the light of comparison with other countries, it is obvious that the need is definitely there for it. Of course, the progress party agrees with the goal of getting a better school, but it is clear that we disagree with SV in the use of tools. The Progress Party also wants Community-funded well-being goods, but we want freedom of choice for the user in the case of service providers. There are immediately two questions that come to mind, and that I will have to ask Ryan's representative. The Socialist Left Party is constantly talking about more teachers and more money to the school, while the interaction with the parents is hardly mentioned in one word. Is it so that the most important thing for SV is that it is the public that should own and run the school, that it is the public that should shape our children and young people, and that the contribution and influence of parents in this way are of secondary importance? The cooperating government parties talk about quality in school by simply transferring more money to the municipalities. At the same time, they underline the local government's right to rule on their own finances. Is not a system that leads to major differences between schools in different municipalities, what is the closest option for parents and guardians to move to another municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1144	I've had the pleasure of working at school for many years, almost 15 years. The collaborative home school is the most important thing. That's what SV agrees with. Of course, cooperation with the home should be crucial in running schools and in both training and dissemination of knowledge to students. But it's the public thing to own the school. It's a public task to own the school, and in SV's view, the school is one of the most important welfare goods we have. The main reason why we have relatively small differences in Norway is that we have had a single school where, regardless of the social background, regardless of the economic background, everyone has now received the same offer from the age of 6 to the age of 19. Let's call for the good. It has to be the responsibility of the public, and we will fight for that in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1151	The co-operation administration had a high focus on the northern regions. Therefore, the right is pleased that this focus is now being continued. But to succeed in the north, two issues are crucial. The first is that we use the petroleum resources available in the area. Does the representative agree that it is necessary to facilitate the use of these resources for the benefit of the people of Northern Norway and the country, in other words, and to safeguard our interests in the north? The second is to secure international support for our positions in the north. To achieve this, we need to have a close relationship with Europe and the United States. The Stoltenberg II government also announces a new course here. Special SV has been dedicated to highlighting distance to close allies. SV even goes so far as to refer in their party programme to the United States as the greatest threat to world peace, and that NATO cooperation is of little relevance to the security challenges of our time. I think we are many in this country who believe the opposite is true. When you mark the distance and disagreement with our friends, how will the representative Ryan contribute to the active support of the same country for our positions and interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1160	So the time for a line is up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1164	Here were many demanding questions at once, but let me start with the resources in the north. The most important natural resource we have in the north is the fish. It has been there at all times, and it is likely to be there at all times if we manage this fish resource as well as possible. Then we now have a resource that will be there for some decades, maybe 100 years, called oil and gas. SV has been critical to use parts of the northern areas for oil and gas extraction precisely because we have significant environmental concerns to take in an area where the fish is the eternal resource that we actually have to take care of because it is something that future generations will always reap. But in this government, we are open to looking at possible solutions that can be compromises, where, on the one hand, we take care of environmental interests and fishing resources and, on the other hand, we can have a prudent exploitation of parts of this marine area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1171	One of the conditions that make Norway big is the communities that we create between us, not because someone orders us, but because we want them. We like to use words like voluntary communities, non-governmental organisations, about these communities. When we think about it in principle, we say it's common by the citizens. It is these communities that ultimately own the apparatus that constitutes the State and municipality. I have seen that this has been some of the things that at least the party has carried as a sense of community. Therefore, it is with some wonder that I noticed the Prime Minister's statement yesterday, where he spoke of the voluntary sector as a complement to the public sector. The voluntary sector is part of the public sector. How could it be a supplement? My question to the representative Ryan, whom I have come to know as a person deeply rooted in the tradition I described at the beginning of this article: Is this not an inadequate use of language? Isn't that volunteer something in itself, which carries this society, and far more than a supplement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1178	It's asking what to add to the term supplement. I have not talked to the Prime Minister about what exactly he did in his interpretation of the term supplement. There is no doubt that these three parties too are concerned that we should have a strong voluntary sector. When we have spoken strongly against privatisation in some areas, that does not mean that we do not want a voluntary sector that has a number of functions. We have had that all year round, not least in the care sector, in the area of aid and a number of other areas. As I said, for this government I know that the voluntary sector will be taken care of. It's an important part of our society. But it must also be clear that we are committed to strengthening the public sector. What we have seen through the work of the last government is that it has begun to weaken the public for the benefit of private welfare solutions. There we want to be clear that this is what we are about to change, and we are going to take back stronger public governance and public spending on the common good.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1187	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1190	Norway is the society of opportunity. The centre party is very pleased to be able to participate in a government to benefit from the possibilities in a wiser and more forward-looking way than Bondevik II. The centre party made three main choices: Firstly, a more offensive industrial policy. Now national strategies are to be developed within the areas where Norway has competence or special advantages, e.g.: marine and maritime sectors, energy, environment and travel. The objective of living agriculture throughout the country should be the direction of WTO negotiations. There shall be greater State involvement through, inter alia: Innovation Norway and SIVA to stimulate creativity for new activities in District Norway. The country should be better connected through better roads, rail and broadband. Secondly, good local welfare, a good and free school and a more dignified care. For municipalities, $5.4 billion is due. There are several night shifts in many hospitals. Several kids will experience that they are being used and listened to, because there are several teachers. And it says in the Soria Moria statement that no local hospital should be laid down. Thirdly, a new voluntary policy, a boost for sport, volunteering and culture. We rejoice at the declaration of government at this point. We think that will give more than today the opportunity to engage in something to live for. The Central Party has great expectations for the Government to work on the plan for the eradication of poverty and the strengthening of the drug field. We look forward to an international commitment to promoting common good and building a better organized value. Four years is short. It's important to think about the long term. People will notice that the country has already received a new government on 1 January, because the local economy is being strengthened. But there has to be a multi-year escalation plan in place. There may be unsolved tasks in several areas over a period of four years. The low turnout is a warning to all of us who are engaged in political work. If we are to be closed to making the right choices far beyond 2009, we must show greater respect for people's everyday lives, regardless of the party. We have to include ourselves in the political work experiences of the election struggle: the People's House in Sandnes, where they had to bring in more chairs because people were so busy with community economics, Suldal Billag, who asks for a rough path when winter morning comes, and relatives in Oslo, who are calling for a more worthy dementia care. Our country has few inhabitants, great material wealth, good welfare arrangements and less differences than many other countries. But there's an increasing gap between private wealth and the quality of public supply. There are also increasing differences between those who have the least and those who have the most. And we have our own distance costs if it's going to take people across the country, but it's actually also costs related to centralization. It is a great privilege and a great responsibility to be able to rule a country with such a good material and welfare basis and such a great freedom of action. It is essential to retain national power over natural resources in order to ensure good management. Major parts of the funds must go to Community investment and solutions. It is time to pursue a resilient policy for the whole country, where one takes full use of the country – a policy that has a content that wins a broad consensus among the people. The Declaration of Government is a very good starting point for that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1213	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1216	The working party and SV believe that freedom of choice for young children’s parents is to choose between kindergarten and kindergarten. The centre party has understood that full freedom of choice is about kindergarten and cash support. The government says they will have full child care coverage by 2008, and then the cash support will be changed to a ‘limited cash support’ out of the period. I would like to hear what is contained in a ‘limited cash support’ and what you think in any future period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1223	At the time of the introduction of cash support in 1997, the intention was that parents should be given more time to deal with their children. Later, the intention has been changed, and it has now been focused for several years on an option that so far does not exist. In order for people to be able to choose, it must actually be an offer. I know many parents who have no choice, they have to accept cash support, because there is no nursery space. Therefore, it is very important to get full child-care coverage. And then we in the Center Party are very happy that we are going to keep an arrangement with cash support. She must then be after the intention of those who are willing to spend time with the young, and then we will see in the next period how the scheme should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1228	With the poverty notification, the Norwegian Government, as the first Norwegian government, took the initiative in targeting poverty in Norway. For the Right, it will always be important to make humans self-held and give the individual self-respect back. The new government has made the fight against poverty a major issue. Nevertheless, this week we have been exposed to deep disagreement among the three on what is understood and defined as «poorness». The representative, Kleppa and the Center Party and SV operate with 400,000 poor people. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Labour Party has established that he bases the definition of poverty message. This means 300000 fewer, or about 100 000 poor in Norway. With this in mind, I would like to ask two questions to the representative Kleppa: what kind of poverty definition will the red-green government comrades actually use? The government has set itself the goal of eradicating poverty over the four-year period, and the second question is: What new measures are there to help achieve this objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1237	In my view, it is in the fight against poverty that the Bondevik II government has failed the most. The Bondevik I government had provided a cross-cutting message with five strategies related to housing policy, more at work, better public services, a more finmasked social security network and a fair tax system. The Bondevik II government didn't follow it up at all. Now I think everyone in today's government is concerned that we shouldn't get involved in definitions. We're going to contribute to a holistic plan to include those who need help to get out of the situation they're in. We can make a definition with a weight that covers everyone, if we make limits low enough. What is now becoming the challenge of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and of the Government is to engage in dialogue with the parties concerned in eradicating poverty and achieving a good limit on the measures to be implemented in a holistic way. It'll be an exciting and challenging, but very important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1244	A new government is always met with a mixture of excited expectation and not insignificant insecurity attached to which course the new government and government party on the Stortinget will choose when the seal tour really begins. The Equality Act explicitly states that it does not apply to the internal conditions of trust societies. According to the Working Environment Act, life-vision organisations may require them to add their values to the organisation. Now the red-green parties say that they want to abolish the rule of exception in equality laws and work environment laws. In the newspaper Today, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa says that it is important to be committed to keeping up these exceptions. Freedom of religion and freedom of religion are fundamental principles that must prevail in each government statement. This is such a decisive principle for our democratic society that they cannot stand on elections every four years. My question to the representative of Meltveit Kleppa is therefore: Is the Central Party a guarantor that the exemption rules of the Equality Act and the Work Environment Act will not be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1256	I understand that the new government is being met with insecurity, and especially by the Christian People's Party, because they led a electoral campaign where they systematically startled with a new government. They may be surprised, because several of the fields they define as value issues are delimited in the government platform. So what Ingredient Sjöfonn here asks about is a statement. The best guarantee that churches, different trust societies and different organisations will have the possibility of a practice consistent with the teachings they themselves have is that they are involved in this process and refer to the fields they may still need for exceptions. What makes this issue relevant is that it is sometimes defined today by this exception far beyond the legal basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1263	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1266	We're going to be proud that we've built a society that is much more and more older and lives considerably longer. Of our population, over 800,000 are over 67 years of age, and well 20,000 are over 90 years of age. Most people do well and live a good life with good quality of life. Many older people are resource strengths that make a great effort in society, both towards their immediate neighbours and as participants in voluntary work. We're all getting older at some point. This leads to increased vulnerability to different pressures. Some people don't get enough care and care, despite the fact that they need it. We believe it is absolutely necessary to strengthen care for the elderly. This must be done both in the community health service and in our hospitals. We want a more dignified elderly care where the employees in the sector have time to care for the elderly in a satisfactory and good way. Many older people need more help. Many employees are tired of feeling that they are not stretching. We want to do something about that. Everyone lives in municipalities, and the municipalities are responsible for providing good care and care for those who need it. In order for us to do that, we need to strengthen the local economy, as has been explained here in the past, and as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. This is a crucial prerequisite for increasing the number of people employed in the care and care sector and for expanding the number of sick homes. We are so specific that we say that the number of annual shifts in care should be increased by 10,000 by the end of 2009. Older people often have many illnesses at the same time, and treatment becomes more complicated. Therefore, it is also important to have a national standard for medical services in hospitals. When people get older, the need for help in hospitals also increases. In many of our home medical departments, there is 40 pst. Among patients over 75 years of age, there are often many in the corridors. It is not possible to turn off the light at night; they hear the ringing; they hear the staff passing by day and night. It's full activity, among other patients as well as relatives to other patients. Important conversations with the doctor and with relatives take place in the middle of the hall. When they have to wash, they only get a screenboard in front of them. We don't want it like that. Patients must be able to expect to have room in a room where they receive good treatment and care. We want to do what we can to keep people from lying in the corridor when they end up in hospitals. The view of mental disorders has, fortunately, changed in recent years to more openness and acceptance in the population. It's positive. Despite the fact that the national escalation plan has led to increased appropriations and that more have been treated, we still regrettably see too many examples of inadequate prevention, treatment and aftercare. The government will therefore strengthen the offer to people with mental disorders. We want to pay particular attention to child and youth psychiatry. It is not good, and it is a great impression both for individuals and relatives, that there are so many children and young people who have to wait unreasonablely long to receive treatment. Governments will help to reduce the waiting time in childhood and youth psychiatry by introducing a specific waiting guarantee for children and young people with mental illness. The combination of mental and drug problems has increased dramatically in recent years. Heavy drug users often suffer from severe somatic and mental disorders, and the threshold for receiving health care is often high. They are in a difficult situation of life, and they have a strong need of community assistance in terms of treatment and housing. The Government therefore considers that a national obligatory escalation plan for the drug field should be drawn up in order to coordinate and reinforce efforts towards those in need of assistance. We also believe it is absolutely essential that we have a hospital sector that works so that a person gets help as quickly as possible, that there is good quality in hospitals, and that it is decentralised so that it is close to our hospitals. In order to achieve all of this and to succeed, we are dependent on a strong and well-driven public sector. The government will ensure that everyone has access to good and equivalent health and care services, regardless of their personal economy and where they live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1297	It is not lacking in good intentions and intentions for the new government that has joined. In the beginning, the municipalities have granted 5.4 billion kroner, which is something they enjoy, but as many have said, they are already put in black holes. It is also announced that 10,000 new annual works will be created by 2009. And the objective is quite clear: it has to be an equivalent offer across the country. The question to the Council of State is, How are we to ensure that these new annual works are financed? Is the transfer of ear-marked substances? How do you ensure that they are distributed so that you get an equivalent offer across the country? It's important when it's numerically fixed a number in this way, that the intention is fulfilled, and that it's not just empty words and pious desires. There are big differences in Kommune-Norway, and we're now waiting for those differences to be eliminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1304	I can reassure the representative Giltun that the government is serious when we say that we will have SEK 5.4 billion to the municipalities next year – and we want to step forward – and that we want and aim to get to 10,000 annual works within the care sector until 2009. I know, and have been given responsibility for the last, not least that this is ambitious. It's demanding, but we think we're going to get it done, and we're already working on a plan for how we're going to do it. The main answer to this is that we manage to get more transfers to the municipalities, as explained earlier. I also hope that the representative and her party will follow up and support appropriations for the municipalities, so that we can do so. From the government's side, I have to say that we have confidence that the municipal politicians are spending money where they see it to be the most necessary, and it is obvious that in many municipalities it is the care of the elderly that is now screaming for more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1309	I have two questions for the Council of State. The representative, Olav Gunnar Ballo, who has been a spokesperson for health policy in the past period, stated that the draft budget presented by the outgoing government is the best he has ever seen in the area of health and care. He said it was at least the best in the last ten years. Is there an assessment shared by the Council of State? The second question relates to an expression used by the Prime Minister in the election campaign, namely that before it shines with the care of the elderly, it will not be appropriate to give a single penny in tax districts in that country. The Government Declaration announces a special tax bill for trade-organised workers. How long does the Council of State estimate that they have to wait for this promise to be fulfilled, or, more specifically, how long does it expect to take to achieve the condition that it is characterised by the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1316	What the Government and I believe about the budget that has been presented by the government that has now gone off, and what had to come of changes, we come back when the supplement to the budget comes, so I don't want to go into it any more. I think it's pretty obvious that there are some areas where there's a need to make changes, but I'm asking for understanding that I have to get back to it. When the Prime Minister has said that we are concerned that care for the elderly should shine, it is absolutely necessary, and it is a huge challenge that, after the government that has recently left, so many older people feel and think – and rightly so – that they do not get the care they need, that there is a cut in activity, that the home help service – those who are nurses and are going to help at home – almost has no time to step in until they have to leave the door again, to reach through everyone. Then we have a big task to do, and the main answer to that is more money for the municipalities. It's a completely different direction than that of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1323	The Christian People's Party has registered with satisfaction that the new government will continue the Bondevik government's focus on research on adult stem cells, i.e. stem cells from born individuals. There is no doubt that Norway is developing a unique competence and knowledge in stem cell research. The positive thing is that stem cells from born individuals can benefit from the treatment of, among others: Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, Parkinson's disease and heart attack, as research so far has shown. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to focus on such research rather than research on fertilised eggs. The new government wants to revise the Biotechnology Act so that research on fertilised eggs, including stem cell research, is just opened up. In my opinion, this is ethically objectionable. This makes life a means over a goal in itself. The Christian People's Party is concerned about whether the Government will prioritize research on fertilized eggs rather than research on stem cells of born individuals, which may lead to stagnation in the positive development we have seen in this last area. My question to the Council of State is this: doesn't the Council of State see any concern in opening up research into unborn life, as this really is?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1332	Biotechnology is a very exciting, but of course also a difficult area. The developments that are now taking place in many areas are very exciting, and enable us to treat far more diseases than we could a few years ago. It's the government that we're going to be able to keep going, and research, of course, is very central. So it's right, as Mr. Davøy here says, that we're going to start revising the entire Biotechnology Act, and I don't want to shoot what's going to be the end of it here today, in addition to pointing out what we've already said in the Soria Moria Declaration. But here it's obvious that there are different opinions. We get back to it, but it's important that we do research, so that we can at least keep up the good run we're in when it comes to the absolutely necessary treatment of diseases, which makes us get on that front as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1340	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1343	Norway is going to be a good country to do business, it says in the Soria Moria Declaration, and I think I can all agree is well formulated. And if you look at previous government statements, you have about the same wording. So these are a lot of good and good formulations. If you look at the program of the different parties, you'll find the same thing again; many nice, nice formulations that business is happy to read. It's also true that with business policy, especially in August and a few weeks in September every four years. Then there is no way of how many politicians who tend their torches and go on torches to protest against jobs being removed. But unfortunately, this happens only occasionally in the context of elections. Otherwise, there's no commitment. Just after the choice, Telenor dropped approximately. 300 jobs. I saw neither Jens Stoltenberg, Kristin Halvorsen, Åslaug Haga, nor Øystein Djupedal light their torches and go in trains for these jobs. In Troms – to take an example from the county I come from, which I also know best – four shipyards were closed. 200 jobs disappeared in the district. It means relatively more than the workplaces that unfortunately are disappearing in the Ski. I didn't see one politician who went on a torch or engaged in that field. There may have been a lack of journalists and photographers and some camera lights they could sunbathe in, and therefore lacked commitment. I must say, that's pretty sad. Because it is in this room that the framework conditions for business are laid down, and I will give you one example: last year we dealt with the climate quota law. At the hearing of the Committee on 16 November, an overall business life stated that competitive framework conditions had to be established, the same framework conditions as those of the rest of the industry in Europe had to be met. I'm going to quote what we wrote in Innst. O. No 33 for 2004-2005 in relation to that case: ‘With today’s proposal, for example, Norwegian Forest holdings in the EU will be subject to quota trading, while the four factories in Norway are not. There is an unfortunate discrimination on the part of those members from which they are strongly alienated.’ Already then, we engaged in the Union case in order to try to achieve the same good framework conditions for Norwegian Forest and Union in Norway as they have in Europe. But then it was completely silenced by the politicians who marched in torches down there, then there was no interest in this business. We also tend to make two proposals every year, and so will we this year. One proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to impose unilateral national environmental taxes which may impair the competitiveness of Norwegian industry.’ The second proposal is: ‘The Government is asked to abolish unilateral national environmental taxes which may weaken competition with Norwegian industry.’ Common to these two proposals is that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, vote against them. It is to facilitate conditions for Norwegian industry. I'm not going to say that it's double moral, because it's almost not moral at all, and then you can't use the word double moral. Let me conclude by saying a few words about fisheries policy. The last time the Workers' Party was in government and directed the fisheries policy, there was a population uprising along the Finnish coast. It was a big commitment. There were airloads of people from the Finnish coast who protested against the government's policy. I have to say, I'm very excited about what kind of policy we get now. Are we going to get a little bit more of the same thing that the Workers' Party has tried before, or are you going to make a new policy? Let me illustrate by example: In the 1990s, something called the Svartnes plant was built in Vardø. You spent over 100 million dollars. kr on this plant, over 100 million berths were built. kr, and the installation was in operation for three months. At that time a massive overcapacity had been built that also helped to beat the legs of part of the other fishing farms. The problem with the Norwegian fishing industry and the challenges there is that there is overcapacity both on land and at sea. Either you have to structure that overcapacity, or you have to increase the resource output. The last thing I want to warn you is very strongly, because scientists have now said that at the last check count there were 700,000 tonnes less cod in the Barents Sea than previously estimated. In other words, there is no basis for increasing the quota withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1379	When the representative of Korsberg is concerned about the business environment, he completely forgets that the most serious threat to competitive business is too strong a krone price and too high a cost level in Norway. And if there's something that would lead to problems, then it's the Advance Party's use of oil money, and the effect it'll have on the cost level and the cost price. There would be'struggle' jobs in Norway at a rate we have never experienced before. But since this is a debate on the government statement, I would like to remind you that the Progress Party most of the spring session and through the election campaign took a position like the party that would build up a majority option on the civil side. They even dismissed Prime Minister Bondevik because he was a hindrance to it. So the question is, will the Progress Party continue that work in this big period as well, or will the Advance Party go back to a pure opposition role?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1386	The Progress Party is also committed to having a stable krone price that benefits business. But we're actually also recording a lot of other business input, and it's probably because we have a good relationship with the business community. We also note that the business community is concerned that there is a poor road standard around Norway. They are concerned about high and rising fuel costs. This also applies in the fisheries sector, not only to those who drive cars, and there are a number of framework conditions that businesses are asking for in order to be able to compete with businesses outside Europe. One thing I can promise the representative Hansen, and that is that we must be an opposition party to the government that has joined. We must be a constructive party in opposition. We shall cooperate if that is the basis for it, and we shall be in strong opposition when there is a basis for it. And that's the last thing I expect is going to be used most of the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1393	The party to progress is concerned with industrial policy, but they also have a strong commitment to care for the elderly. And that's positive. But in the eagerness to help the elderly, the party comes with solutions that are particularly questionable, after the Left's opinion. It's strange that a liberal party has such clockwork on the state and on centralised solutions. Left thinks that the problems are best solved almost possible for those who have them, and in addition, local democracy is a cornerstone of our entire regime. In the election campaign, the party of progress has made it a key point for local politicians to be deprived of all decision-making powers for the elderly, schools and kindergartens. Retorically view a town hall and culture up against the elderly. But is it not true that the progressive part of municipalities must also have appropriate office facilities and cultural arenas? In my view and in my view, the Progress Party will in reality turn the municipalities into purely administrative government branches. My question to the representative of Korsberg is: Why has the Progress Party so mistrusted local democracy and local people elected, and why does the Progress Party believe that only state detail management should help the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1402	As the representative Ludvigsen had in mind, the Progress Party is very concerned with a good care for the elderly and also the relatives of the elderly who have a real opportunity to choose the best offer for themselves and theirs. We see a need for this to be managed in a different way. I can only draw an example from the municipality I come from – it is, of course, easiest to do so – the municipality of Tromsø. Local politicians, consisting of the Workers' Party and the SV, who have a majority, have the priority of building a town hall of 700-800 million. kr. They're building a movie theater. They're taking a dividend of 100 million. kr from Troms Kraft and buys TFTS shares. I think it's actually the company that before this last stock exchange shock – if you're going to call it that – has fallen most in value at Oslo Børs. So local politicians in Tromsø have put in their money instead of strengthening the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1409	As the representative of Korsberg correctly points out, the Government's aim is that Norway should be a good country to operate in. But it is not just what is traditionally perceived as an industrial policy, which is crucial to the competitiveness of industry. When the U.S. car industry is flagged from the Congratulations Party to Canada, it is closely related to the fact that a privatized health service is far more expensive than a good public offer. According to Newsweek, a U.S. vehicle company costs General Motors, Ford and Daimler Chrysler more than $6,500 a year in health expenditure. In Canada, which has a health care service paid and run by the government, the cost is just $800 a. works. My question to the Progress Party is therefore: Does the Progress Party see the industrial policy value of a well-developed public health system and of limiting the scope of private commercial hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1418	I think I've read the Soria Moria statement quite carefully, and I didn't find anything special about the American car industry – but I'm going to try to read it one more time. But at least I agree that we are going to have a good health care, and the public is going to be an important contribution in that way. I've pulled out Tromsø on previous occasions today, and I think I'll do it again. I just want to show that a few years ago there was one hospital in Tromsø, and it was the Regional Hospital in Tromsø, or UNN, as it is now called. Today we have received three private hospitals in addition, and it is part of strengthening the offer to the population. The hospital queue has fallen, and you have a much greater freedom of choice. That's the most important thing for us. We put the patient in focus, we don't put the system in focus. The patient should have the best offer, and we should be a guarantor of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1425	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1428	Norway is a country with great potential. Few governments have been able to take over with as good a starting point as the invading Stoltenberg government. Rarely has the term ‘coming to the table’ been more correct. Not least, many of the opportunities in the coming years are linked to the exploitation of our natural resources. Norway has the potential to be Europe's energy power, with hydropower, wind and, above all, oil and gas off our coast as central. The co-operation administration was very concerned about facilitating the exploitation of these natural resources for value creation in Norway. The co-operation administration therefore placed a high emphasis on stable framework conditions and a predictable balance between environmental and value creation considerations. We have seen the outcome of this policy. Snow White has already created new optimism in North Norway. But this is just the beginning. Maybe there's as much as 25 pst. of the future oil and gas resources of the world in the northern regions. That's why it's absolutely necessary that we continue oil exploration in the Barents Sea as well. In the West – where I come from – we know what oil and gas activities mean for employment and value creation, including for small and medium-sized enterprises. I am therefore pleased that the previous government in the 19th concession round in June chose to release 30 new blocks in the Barents Sea and 34 in the Norwegian Sea. I hope that the allocation of these blocks continues, with the progress that the previous government has made. There is reason to believe, with some concern and uncertainty, that the policy of the new government will slow this down. What will happen in the next concession rounds? Will the new government continue to illuminate new blocks in the Barents Sea? What about the sea areas outside the Lofoten and the Vesterål? There are no positive signals from Soria Moria here. One of the most promising areas of oil and gas activities, Northern VI, shall be kept closed for oil and gas activities throughout the four-year period. The main measure for more electricity in Norway is to use our large gas resources for power generation. I am therefore very pleased that the natural force is taking advantage of its concession to build gas power plants on Kårstø, which will be completed in 2007. But here too, the new government is cutting in the sea. It is said that all gas plants in Norway, including those that have already received a concession and an emission permit, as I understand it, will be required to have full CO2 cleaning. The government will require all CO2 to be dissipated and captured at the gas power plant. Thereafter, the oil and gas fields on the base shall be transported to a certain extent. CO2 shall be pumped into the boreholes as pressure support and, hopefully, increased oil extraction – despite the fact that the oil directorate professionals made a report last spring that showed great uncertainty, both technically and economically, about this project. The Soria Moria Declaration does not indicate who is to pay for it, except that the State is to contribute to the financing. It is therefore not clear to the Kårstø developers whether, in addition to financing the gas power plant itself, they must also finance part of the red-green airlocks in the form of CO2 capture, transport and landfill, for example in the Gullfak field. I fear that new uncertainty can lead to natural power postponing the complete completion of the gas power plant at Kårstø, that Industrikraft Mid-Norway is putting aside its plans for gas power plants at Skågn, and that the environmentally friendly energy plants at Tjeldbergodden and Mongstad will not see the light of day in very, very many years. Our natural resources, not least in the field of energy, give us enormous opportunities for continued growth and prosperity in this country. The co-operation administration was making good use of our energy resources for new value creation. I hope that the new government will not waste these possibilities over the next four years. It'll be too high a price to pay for the house peace between these parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1456	I think there were a lot of people in SV's storage group who had a special day yesterday. Being a magnificent representative and a right to memory speakers over two of the party's biggest fighters, Hanna Kvanmo and Finn Gustavsen, just before the Prime Minister of a government where SV is involved, read out the government statement can be said to be nothing but special. The declaration is a very good starting point for the work to be done in Stortingen and the Government for the next four years. For me, the litmus test is: how heavy is it that the things that would otherwise not have been like this if SV hadn't been there? And the answer, the first time I read the statement, and actually the next few days, was: it's things that go very hard. I believe this is the reason why SV's national government has agreed with each other that the party is going to government. The lot is satisfied with the statement and looks forward to working with it at different levels. I would like to be allowed to take some of the areas for which we are particularly happy. The first is the open environment. The chapter "Norway as an Environmental Nation" is a happy reading for us who are concerned about the environment. As a northerner, I can't avoid being happy and proud that SV is going into a government that helps to protect the last great river, the Wefsna. At the same time, the area has its food fund, so that one can make use of the potential of the protection of the river in fact, in relation to, for example, travel and other forms of business development. Another theme is climate change. We know today that the climate challenge is not science fiction. Climate change is now taking place. The frames are hardest for the most vulnerable. The declaration has ambitious objectives in this area, and the measures are concrete. Of course, I am also very pleased and proud that it was SV who had to be in government to end a year-long struggle for gas power. When it comes to one of the major issues of conflict in the last few years, at least a theme that was heavily debated in the election campaign we've put behind us, petroleum industry in the north, comes to the clarification in the management plan that comes to spring. The size is going to play an important role here. On behalf of the whole SV group, we are ready to start that job. Another area that made my heart beat, and especially after running an election campaign where one has the ability to meet very many people where they live, is regional policy and district policy. Some of the most obvious feedback we've received, at least in the state I live in, is that the previous government has failed in its task. This is a good chapter in the statement, and I like to go to the municipal committee and work on it. The three main strategies for regional and district policy are good, they are offensive, they are targeted, and they are adapted to make Norway look very different from where it is from. Foreign policy is one of the most central policy areas for SV. In many ways, that's why SV is. After hearing the memorizations about Hanna and Finn yesterday and again reading the alien chapter, I just have to admit that I am very proud. The statement states that we must work for a United Nations leadership world order. If Norway is to be involved in international operations, it shall have a clear UN mandate. The Nordic regions are defined as our strategic main interest. This is one of the areas that I'm sure SV has played a significant role in getting to. This is an area in which the SV's grossing-up group will continue to work. And it's clear, in the aftermath of the drama that's been in the Barents Sea in the last few days, that the fact that the North is our strategic main interest is a right choice. Coast Guards, as SV has highlighted, and for whom we have sometimes flirted, have been proven to be significant in relation to Norwegian defence and security policy. And the statement states that this is an area to be strengthened. That's one of the important reasons why I'm happy that the "heavy" area of the statement is because SV is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1475	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1478	The representative Elvik was in some important areas of the Norwegian political landscape, but unfortunately none of that is the major challenge for Norwegian business, namely stable framework conditions and predictability. It is a fact that we have a capable business, which is largely addressing the challenges facing the global economy. However, the ever-changing political orientations of fiscal policy and changes in the legislation in Norway are a major challenge. It may also discourage foreign investors from investing capital in Norway. Can the SV representative now guarantee that we will have greater predictability and stability in business policy, and that the business community in Norway will not meet new peculiar rules with a new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1485	I hope that the representative Fostervold understands that there are not all areas where you can enter a five-minute post, but business policy is one of the areas where I have the most work and burn the most, and I thank you for the opportunity to answer a very important question. The fact that we now have a multi-digital government is in itself stabilizing, and making it itself safer for business. That we're saying we're going to work open, that we're going to accept recordings, that we want to welcome constructive input from the opposition, doesn't mean we're going to do what we don't want to do. That means that good arguments are accepted, we're going to use them and listen to them. The industry itself is calling for stability. It gets them with a plural government. But a large part of the business community also calls for a government policy that plays with them, a more offensive policy. This may be particularly true of the business community in the districts. They get it with this government, and they'll get it for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1492	The representative, Åsa Elvik, was the Swedish Fisheries Commissioner for the previous period and was very high in the field of criticism of the fisheries policy led by the previous government and announced a new policy with the new government. That is why I have read with excitement the chapter of the Soria Moria declaration on fisheries. I see that now most things have to be investigated. You are in no way as slippery as you were before, and it is in my opinion embedded in strong contradictions in the statement. I will ask the representative Elvik to explain to me the following: ‘No one shall be able to own a fixed share of the quota set at all times.’ It's been notified. «Regions and municipalities, together with active fishermen, shall be able to own vessels with quota rights within the current participant law.» That, to my mind, is a pretty sharp contrast. At the same time, one has to take 10 pst. of the total quota and regional benefits. It has also been notified. But one also says that everyone should be allowed to compete for the 10 pst.-quota. How do you get it when you have fixed allowances per year? Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1507	I also thank you for the opportunity to talk about fisheries policy, which I did not get in my five-minute post. We have a new course in fisheries policy. It was something I was very happy about when I saw the result of the negotiations at Soria Moria. We go from what was Svein Ludvigsen's privatisation policy, where only one focused on the profitability of some of the nutritionists who are in the industry today, without understanding how important that industry is to small and large fishing communities. The representative Jan Sahl wasn't always as high as he was when he was talking about fisheries policy in the previous period. I would like to warmly welcome him to be exalted in this period. I have a lot of understanding that it's easier in the opposition. When it comes to privatisation, it is a difficult theme to turn over the day after Svein Ludvigsen. That's why I'm incredibly happy that we're now getting a solution that doesn't destroy the actors that are in the industry today, but that at the same time confirms that the fish in the sea is the community's resource and is not individualized forever and ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1518	I also want to follow up with a fisheries policy issue, as Åsa Elvik has been as strong as SV's fisheries policy spokeswoman. It goes a little bit like what Sahl asked for, but a little bit more concrete. The Government Declaration states that a wide range of arrangements must be made to assess the impact of the structural measures introduced in the fishing fleet, as referred to by Åsa Elvik no. I assume that Åsa Elvik is involved in this. There are many fishing boat owners who are planning to buy larger boats or contract new boats, and who are now in the wild if they are going to be willing to bet on replacements that can ensure better and safer jobs for fishermen and a safer economy. Does this statement from the Government mean that fishermen will have to anticipate a reversal of structural measures so that they will have to wait for the investments they have planned? Does the statement mean that the proposal made by the previous Minister for Fisheries in the government on one of the last days to join together also groups 1 and 2 coastal boats will be stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1525	What is stated in the declaration is that one should be given an explanation of the consequences of the structural measures, and one should be given a breakdown of the possibilities to introduce a time limit for all allowances, concessions and access to participants. That's what's going to happen. From the SV side, we have been very clear about this, and it is even down to our work programme that changes in the fisheries policy should not put today's economic operators in a difficult situation. We're busy finding a solution where we're sure that the fish in the sea are the community's property, while at the same time we have active nutritionists who are fishing because it's wise both for their own money book and for the community they live in. I mean, today's fishermen don't have a cause for concern. This is a step-by-step process that I am sure will lead to good conclusions and solutions to unite goals both in relation to economic operators and in relation to coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1534	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1537	Norway has been given a new political course. The previous government wanted more private schools. The new government wants to strengthen the common school. The previous government forced the provision of services to the elderly and would tender for more services. The new government will strengthen the foundations of the public services of the elderly. The previous government weakened the rights of employees and increased the possibility of temporary employment. The new government will strengthen the rights of workers. The previous government weakened the means of creating new jobs and cutting unemployment. The new government will strengthen its efforts for industrial development, strengthen its efforts to combat unemployment and reduce unemployment. Efforts at knowledge, better elderly services and increased efforts at work were the main messages of the Workers' Party in the fall's decision to increase. A lot is turned in the wrong direction under the previous government. Unemployment has grown significantly. Important welfare services are weakened. The distribution between those who have much, and those who have little, has become worse. Therefore, Norway needs a new course. The government has announced clear changes already in 2006. The economy of municipalities, and with the community's ability to provide a good school offer to our children and a good service offer to our elderly, will be considerably strengthened. And here lies a fundamental fundamental difference between the old and the new government – the choice between using money for welfare services or using the same money for tax bills. It's hardly the lack of private wealth that's the biggest problem for most of us. On the other hand, we are concerned about the quality of school buildings and teaching materials. We see that parents and grandparents do not have the necessary room in a nursing home. We are horrified that the municipalities cannot afford to have water in the swimming pools. Nevertheless, the previous government chose to use the money for tax relief. This government chooses differently. Of course, the difference between government options is not as between abyss and paradise. There's going to be a lot of unsolved tasks under this government as well. And it'll take time to get the improvements. The government’s platform is valid for the entire four-year period. The economic space determines how fast we can move forward. Equally full is changed by course essential. We see it in welfare policy, and we also see it in business policy – on the fundamental issue of whether the state should be active or passive. The old government left the market to master the challenges in business. The new government provides for an interaction between business and government — a clearer strategy, a clearer will. Norway has a number of unique industrial advantages. In several sectors, however, we do not get the possible developments, including: because the individual economic operators alone do not have enough power and weight. Is the state going to lean back, or is it going to help set a course, to give strength and to give weight? One of the best examples is travel life. We all know that it is delicious to be Norwegian in Denmark. But the rest of the world does not know Norway. Public authorities and businesses must then join forces on a national travel strategy – a common initiative, an offensive marketing. So we see the same thing for fish. We have one of the world's best raw materials. But we freeze the fish, remove our quality advantage and allow it to be processed in China. Here, too, we need a national strategy, where we take our advantage, fresh, high-quality raw material. And then we have to bet – together. Norwegian farming is an adventure, but it had not been written without an active country. We also see it in foreign policy. Norway’s leading strategic challenges and interests lie in the north. It must shape both our foreign policy and our domestic policy. An active policy for industrial development and settlement along the coast of North Norway is not a question of ‘aid to Finnmark’. It is a question of safeguarding fundamental national interests and triggering the main opportunities for national economic development in oil and gas, fisheries and travel. This debate shows changes in the political landscape, primarily with a new political focus, with a clear majority of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre. Secondly, with the Progress Party as the largest opposition party. However, the most important new feature of this debate is the changes between the old government parties. The leader of the Christian People's Party has indicated a direction back to his old self and the willingness to accept the Prime Minister's invitation to cooperation between government and opposition. It's in itself a positive signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1583	I believe that the representative was on many important issues, but I had nevertheless hoped that he would also come into the transport sector and what the new government wants to do in the transport sector. The latest news is that the State Road Administration, the regional road office in central Norway, is considering reducing the speed limits because the roads are so bad that they are dangerous to the traffic. It's actually a challenge that on a number of roads it's a hugely bad standard. This clearly shows that we are facing very major challenges with regard to the Norwegian roads. The Government, in its declaration, states that it will be committed to developing our roads in line with the decision of the majority of the population in relation to the treatment of the national transport plan. My question to the representative will be whether he believes that an extra billion for road use per year. years in the next ten years will be enough to secure Norway’s proper roads, and will ensure that the goal of zero is severely damaged and killed in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1590	I am aware that the representative is new, but must be allowed to recall that the Progress Party was actually involved in the overall assessment of how to increase the effort in handling the national transport plan. Thus, the new government has made it clear that increased road investment, both for investment, for operation and for maintenance is in line with the decision of the majority of the population in relation to the treatment of the national transport plan. There is a clear starting point for this government, a completely different will from that of the former government, both in its planning of the national transport plan and even more in its budget, where one does not even follow up on one's own planning of the national transport plan. Then the annual investment will have to be balanced within the overall financial framework. It shall return to it for the first time in the context of its supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1599	Throughout the election campaign and until the election day, the red-greens were quite specific that they would carry out a maximum price in kindergartens of 1750 kroner from 1 January 2006. We, who represented the government parties, were constantly told that there was not a lack of money, but a lack of will that was the problem. But the Soria Moria Declaration, which was published four days before the Red-Greens took over government responsibility, states on page 44 that: «introduce a maximum price of SEK 2250 per month from 1 January 2006». So an increased cost is 500 kroner per month, or 6000 kroner per month. years for those who have one child, suddenly the price of the red-green foreseen lifting fractures. When the red-greens discovered before they came into the government that their promise was not feasible, they must have been aware of this also in the election campaign. You tried to trick the voters with the utmost consideration. My question to the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen will then be: What other election vows are what you now just have to ignore?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1611	An old Norwegian saying says that by itself you know others. I am aware that the Right has left many of their promises as they had before the previous elections. I am also aware that there was a significant distance between what was on the basis of the previous government and what was realized. But what this government has done is to present to the Stortinget that, as of 1 January 2006, a maximum price of $2,250 is actually introduced. It's a concrete follow-up. It will be directly monitored in the budget to be presented at the beginning of November. Furthermore, it is clear that a maximum price of DKK 1 750 will be introduced in 2005 when full child care coverage is reached, by the end of 2007. I feel quite sure that the Norwegian population sees this as a clear improvement in the costs of kindergartens, as opposed to the fact that the dwindling government has not actually committed to any reduction in kindergarten prices next year, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1620	To the representative of Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, I would like to say that with regard to the follow-up of the Sem declaration by the previous government, we have fully fulfilled our commitments regarding transportation. We've even overfilled it in some areas. In this way, the new government has quite a heavy responsibility to meet its commitments in the budget that will soon be presented in the case of the national transport plan, which would go up 2 billion DKK higher on the track than we promised in the context of the same plan. So to the Soria Moria statement, where you say you don't have to compete with any more passenger services on the railway. I want to show you that we've had one stretch out, that's the Gjøvik track. Who won it? Well, the NSB won it at a cheaper price and with better material than they've done before. So what is the reason why you don't want to try new distances when you prove you're making money? Overall, we have saved approx. $800 million. kr on our outsourcing, which is now entered in the budget in relation to new investments. What does the Workers' Party want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1627	Some countries have tried to compete on a large scale in the transport sector, i.e. increasing the privatisation of rail transport services. There has been no successful project. We have e.g. in the United Kingdom, it has clear negative effects. I see no reason to go on trying to make the same mistakes also in Norway. That is why I think it is a clarifying and precise wording that is on the basis of the Government that it will not facilitate the competitive outsourcing of new passenger services. It provides certainty as to whether there is a stable basis for facilitating good solutions through the NSB and thus ensuring a good offer to the population, rather than starting trials that we know little about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1635	Let me first comment on what was said in the previous row, where Schjøtt-Pedersen commented that the Progress Party was with the Workers' Party when it came to the National Transport Plan. That's right. But that was of course after the Workers' Party had voted down the Advance Party's significantly greater investment on the road – so it was said. The representative, Siv Jensen, promoted two good proposals earlier today on behalf of the Progress Party. They have received some comments from other representatives. When I have listened to it, it seems, in particular, on the part of the Central Party and the Labour Party, that the statutory right of the elderly to care for the elderly is a breach of the confidence of local politicians and that that is the only argument they have. I interpret it so that for these parties, loyalty to local politicians is more than just getting good and statutory care services for the elderly. It must be the interpretation when the same parties ignore the local politicians and the loyalty and trust in them in kindergarten. Because that's exactly what these parties do in relation to it. I want to do some adult training in relation to what the Advance Party wants. Because this is not what the representative Meltveit Kleppa mentioned earlier today about an 80-year-old woman from Finnsnes, who otherwise belongs to the municipality of Lenvik. With our system, the 80-year-old woman in Finnsnes would still have an offer. What had been ensured with our system is that the wife had got her resources, and we're all interested in that. We had ensured that the 80-year-old wife had received her funds, and that is what has been the debate in this room and in Norwegian policy for 20 years – responsible powdering. We see almost every day that the care of the elderly fails from the municipality to the municipality, and then no one takes responsibility. The progress team has found a model that will ensure that when we want more money for the care of the elderly, the money will follow the user. As much as I know about Lenvik Municipality and Finnsnes, I am sure that Lenvik Municipality had probably become the one who had provided the service to the 80-year-old woman anyway, but then the money had been channelled to the right place. That's the point. About the statement that is now on the table, one might say that most of the parties would probably have been able to make such a statement. There is a lot of further development, further development, strengthening, cooperation, securing, facilitating and betting on – fine words that we have heard in this room and in Norwegian policy all the time. Realities come on the table when this government presents its revised budget. Then everyone will see that there will be less freedom of choice for people. Tax increases will be huge for most people, regardless of whether they have said that the 2004 tax level should be maintained. We will have an SV's immigration policy which is quite clear in the declaration: now we need to liberalise even more. And my question might have been, how many are we going to receive now, even if we've tightened up over time? We haven't been able to integrate the people who've been taken over time, and now it has to be increased again. This government has declared that they will now have to fight unemployment at the highest level on the agenda. Yes, it is the same fight that the Workers' Party has waged in the past, which has led to very high unemployment. We have some reports today that suggest that action areas, which are the medicine of this government to reduce unemployment, are directly passive. But it is clear that I see that this government needs to have more action places in place, because unemployment will increase. The narrowing of Norwegian business will be such that they cannot afford to employ people. The previous Stoltenberg government almost made sure that Norwegian business was out of competition. Now it is the Norwegian worker to compete with the new government platform. It's my prophecy, and it'll be sad to see that happens. It is to be invested in the local government sector, and there must be free income, once again in relation to local democracy. I would like to ask the government: the municipality of Bergen inherits 900 million. kr in liabilities of the Workers' Party. When they get increased transfers, do they get to pay off the debt? Or should they bet on the elderly and school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1650	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1653	The representative, Sandberg, concluded with a question. Now it's my privilege as a replicator to ask questions. It goes on what Sandberg started with, simply the foundation for why the Advance Party did what they did during the treatment of Norwegian transport plan. Are we in the situation that now the road billions are going to fly through the air without any results? Because if we look at the period we have spent behind us, the Progress Party had a transport proposal on the road budget for many tens of billions of kroner, of which nothing was ever done. Despite three state budget agreements with the then seated government, almost no progress party was able to get to anything. It could be 200 to 250 million. Total kr. Then they were in a plurality during the treatment of the transport plan that gave increased investment on both road, rail and public transport. Will the Progress Party in its transport policy insist on this? Or should it now be the slightly opportunistic road billions to float through the air, without any concrete results?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1660	The party of progress never sees it as populism to realize bets on the road. We see that as a necessary effort. It'll never be populism from our side. When it comes to Norwegian transport plan, and the fact that we got down to a subsidiary position there, it was to secure some means of road. But then we see that the government that went off has not got these funds in place. Now I see that the new government will put in place a billion – hopefully, that remains to be seen. But the billion that the new government gets in place is just enough to keep the bad level in place. There are projects for one billion in the Road Administration, but they lack the funds for new projects. It is not a problem to bet on traffic in Norway. It's full of machines and entrepreneurs in Europe, and it's just bringing them in. There will be no impact on the Norwegian economy at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1670	I understand that the representative Sandberg is in a slippery transition between municipal policy and transport policy, but there are still three blocks until he is elected as head of the Committee on Transport. So we'll just wait a little bit. What Per Sandberg was concerned about in his contribution was to make sure that the municipality's freedom of action would be consistent with the piece price policy of the Progress Party. I don't think this is where the main problem lies when it comes to the Progress Party. The main problem is the homeless use of money. In the last period, the Progress Party shed several tens of billions of extra dollars in its alternative budgets. In addition, the Party proposed a wide range of cost-intensive measures that were never included in the budget. The result of such a policy would have reduced freedom of action. It would have reduced freedom of action for families with children, for people with housing loans, for business and for municipalities. This policy would have removed the freedom of action by an unsocial explosion in interest rates. How high is the interest rate of the representative Sandberg willing to accept in order to implement the policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1677	Those were familiar words from the Right. It's very interesting that it comes from the Right, who's been in government. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the one year when the Progress Party proposed to spend NOK 5 billion more than what the outgoing government did, the same government came back into the revised budget the following year and spent exactly the 5 billion kroner that the Progress Party had proposed. If this was what was, like, the ‘homeless use of money’ on the part of the Progress Party, then the representative of Greece admits that the outgoing government has also been homeless in its use of oil. The Progress Party has always had a balance in its budgets – we have always had a balance in our budgets. We've even gone to the step of letting the Central Statistical Bureau calculate the consequences of our state budgets. They're not near the result that Trond Helleland wants to express. We believe that we would certainly have created a growth and a development with our policies and our budgets that would have been completely different from what the outgoing government got into, and, of course, even than the incoming government will have. But it remains to be seen. There'll be new choices later. Perhaps the Progress Party has also tried to put its policy into reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1686	I understand that the representative Sandberg is a little annoyed and despaired at his new position in Stortinget. He has lost his Joker position and the opportunity to influence Norwegian policy. Let's hear that a little bit. Per Sandberg now said in his post that almost all the lots could have delivered this declaration. My claim is: at least it could not be the Progress Party. This is particularly true in one area, because there is one area where the Progress Party differs from all other parties in Norway. This concerns environmental policy. The Progress Party is the only party in Norway that believes that they have the right to gamble with the life base of all future generations, by pursuing an unbridled policy of pollution and, in particular, climate. I need to ask the Progress Party whether they really think it is serious when they say that Norway is so poor today, and that the majority in Norway today is so poor that we cannot afford to ensure the CO2 cleaning of gas power plants, which could be one grip that really matters in order to stagnate the galloping climate problem we have in the world today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1698	Well, Norway can afford it. That's what's been lying like a foundation spring in the Progress Party, even when we've tried to speed up the construction of thermal power plants. Our basic belief in getting CO2 clean properly is related to research bets. It is to focus on research and technical solutions to get it in place as quickly as possible. In fact, I believe that if we had put in place a thermal power plant or a gas power plant at an earlier stage, research and development could have taken place at the place where this work stood. Then we had the cleaning in place much faster. The Progress Party has arranged to invest billions of dollars in infrastructure to get this in place as quickly as possible, so that Norway can be at the forefront of the type of research and development related to clean-up. Then we would have been in the environmental performance driver's seat for CO2 cleaning as well. Now we're not at all, because now we're just delivering the gas from us to alternative gas plants out in Europe that are not designed to bet on CO2 cleaning in terms of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1714	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1717	There was great tension in the Soria Moria declaration and the policy of the new government. In his statement to the Stortinget yesterday, the Prime Minister stated the following: ‘We want to change the content of the policy and we want to change the form of the policy.’ With regard to the Northern Region policy, which I would like to touch on in my speech, it might have to be more about change in shape than about change in content. I am pleased to note that the new government is largely continuing the North Region policy of the Cooperation Government. A good rural policy depends on policies in many areas. Agriculture, fisheries, energy and transport are particularly important in this context. The same applies to the ability of municipalities to organise and solve problems. I welcome the increase in the free revenues of municipalities, but I share the concerns of journalist Ole P. Pedersen in the last Municipal Report, where he says that it is important that more money is ‘used for a better offer to users — and does not go beyond lower efficiency and greater snails’. Distance costs are one of the main challenges for business in North Norway. Good and appropriate transport solutions are necessary for housing and business. As far as transport is concerned, the outgoing government has fulfilled all its economic promises in the Sem Declaration, and we have submitted a transport budget in line with our promises for the new National Transport Plan period. Then we'll have to wait for the additional budget from the new government to see if there'll be an extra 2 billion kroner, in line with their promises in the national transport plan. The centre announced in advance that a red-green government goal would be to move 6,000 state jobs out of Oslo in the next four years, and they believed that it was an indispensable principle that all new state agencies established should be left outside Oslo. In the Soria Moria Declaration, this has been reduced to the fact that the Government will ‘determine whether parts of existing State activities can be located outside Oslo’. In addition, it states that the Government will ‘evaluate the outflows of State activities carried out’. Here it may seem that the Centre Party has had to give up on the Workers' Party and SV, both of which have programmed to refuse the relocation of already existing jobs. At this point, it will be useful to clarify the Government's actual position. Fish have been the basis for coastal settlement and business for impenetrable times. In the fisheries sector, red-greens have announced a strong change of policy in the electoral campaign. Slate security in the electoral campaign has now been replaced by the creation of a broad, complex, rapid-working sample to evaluate the impact of structural measures, which is, moreover, in line with the demand for an overall increase in population. Furthermore, a kind of time limit on quotas is suggested, which the Christian People's Party has already adopted and programmed and welcomes. Let me stress that the Christian People's Party will go into the evaluation of the structural measures with an open mind. We also see the need to adjust the course in some areas. In order to manage fish resources well, we need to cooperate closely internationally, not least with Russia. Today, we see a clear common need for increased control efforts to detect overfishing and illegal fishing. It's a growing problem, and cooperation here needs to get better. This is updated by the events of the last days around the Russian jet "Elektron". In the context of the flood management of the Northern Region Communication in spring, there was a broad consensus that future opportunities exist in the north, and that we need to exploit the resources available in the area in a way that is sustainable and environmentally friendly. The Christian People's Party believes that oil extraction should not take place in vulnerable natural areas where environmental considerations suggest that oil extraction is irresponsible. Petroleum-free zones must therefore be established in order to ensure long-term protection against oil activities in such areas. At the same time, in the Christian People's Party, it is important to use the resources on the base. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will conclude the 19th concession round as foreseen. The red-greens also agree that no petroleum activity will be started in Northern Ireland VI during this period, which is supported by the Christian People's Party. We await the management plan and are pleased that the Government will include the Stortinget in the debate when the final assessment is to be made. There are many fine words in the Soria Moria Declaration that the new government sees the northern regions as Norway's main strategic area of activity in the coming years. These are promising words for the continent, and we hope the words are translated into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1747	The representative, Sahl, spoke warmly about, among other things: transport as an important entity for housing, business and living districts. At the same time, he said that the previous government had fulfilled its promise in the Sem declaration. But the fact is that this government went off with a lag of almost 3.5 billion kroner compared to what was the ambition of the Norwegian transport plan. In other words, there was almost no bet on commerce in the previous period. In the draft budget that is now under the leadership of the previous government, there is also a large gap between what is in the current transport plan. Does Sahl think that the previous government led an offensive policy of transportation in line with what one here places great emphasis on?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1754	It's not unusual that different governments up through history have given greater promises than they have been able to fulfill. In this way, we have followed the promises in the national transport plan for the period after the period, because it is easier to make promises than to fulfill them. What is the reality of our government is that each year we have a considerable increase in the budget for transport, and that we have an ‘all-hour high’ commitment to transport in the budget that is now being presented. We have fulfilled our promises in the National Transport Plan. Now, what's going to be exciting is if there's going to be $1 billion i plus to the railway and $1 billion i plus to the road when the new government is now going to present its budget. We're going to follow that closely. And if there's extra money, we're also going to be involved in spending that money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1761	I agree with the representative of Sahl that strengthening business in the northern regions is very important. The same is true of the movement rate, which will affect business both in the north and in the country. The Progress Party fully agrees with this. However, where we disagree with most of the parties, the development of the main road network in Norway is too slow. With today's expansion rate it will take approx. 60 years to get a satisfactory main road network. The standard is also bad. The question is therefore: Will the Christian People's Party actively work for a faster rate of expansion and for a better road standard in the coming financial year? The minimum requirement is that roads are so wide that they can be installed in a middle section, which is proven to provide more traffic-proof roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1768	For the Christian People's Party, transportation is an important field of activity. And as I said in my answer to the previous line, we have delivered a transport budget now that has «all hour high» wagering both on the track and on the road. The Progress Party is here alone about its commitment to transport, which unfortunately we have not been given the opportunity to see realized. So it's just paper money, as I see it. In the case of roads with middle partitions, it's clear that we're going to build those roads where it's needed. There's no need for it all over the country. It has something to do with the total amount of traffic on the road. In the case of the main road network, clear plans have now been made for strengthening both the cross-border E6 through the country and the other tribal routes. The Christian People's Party will continue to invest in the transport sector in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1780	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1783	Through international agreements and conventions, Norway has rights in and administrative responsibility for a sea and pedestal area more than six times greater than mainland Norway. Norway is Europe's largest maritime state. The military strategic importance of the northern regions has been reduced in a traditional sense, but the northern sea areas are economically more important than ever. The northern regions have enormous and economically important resources that will be the bottom line of the future economy of Norway. Both renewable resources and rural resources in the area provide a basis for both energy production and other industrial activities. In addition, the North Atlantic is an important transport route. In addition to oil, gas and fish resources, there are major environmental challenges in the north. The Barents Sea has a unique diversity of species and is one of the most productive marine areas in the world. Although for many years the northern regions have faced challenging challenges and opportunities, in recent years Norway has lacked an overall approach to the north. I am therefore very pleased that the Prime Minister and the new government in their declaration of accession so clearly underline that the northern regions will be Norway's main strategic area in the coming years. There has been a clear demand from the Central Party in the Soria Moria negotiations that we should have a new orientation and a further development of the foreign policy and defence effort in the north. Unfortunately, the conflict-filled resource policy events we have had in the last few days, with the Coast Guard pursuit of the Russian ‘Elektron’ trawler, which several representatives have also mentioned in their posts, are no new phenomenon. A significant Russian overfishing has been documented for several years in the Barents Sea, which directly affects Norwegian fishing interests, including Norwegian fishing resource access and their economy. The situation strongly underlines the need to strengthen efforts to strengthen Norwegian sovereignty and to ensure control and sustainable management of the rich resources in the north. As I said, the military threat scene has changed, but we still have a great and significant responsibility to ensure stability and security in our own region. We must maintain a credible and relevant defence, as a signal to the outside world about where Norway's interests and priorities lie, and as a guarantee that we take our obligations for the exercise of our territorial security seriously. It is linked to enormous economic interests in the seas of Norway, and we cannot ignore the fact that we can be subjected to political pressure. We see that a resource conflict can easily cause political undertones and increase pressure on Norway's rights in a broad sense. Therefore, Norway is in a different and more vulnerable situation than other NATO Member States. We must therefore not neglect the requirements of effective resource control in the northern seas. The fact that several states disagree with our view of the division of sea areas makes the task even more demanding. As I said, it is therefore important to have a defence policy where the presence in the north areas is given priority over what has been done in recent years. We need to increase the military presence, and we need to increase the appropriations for the Coast Guard to get more seagoing patrol days. It will strengthen both resource control and preparedness. It must also be an objective that a coastguard ship should be able to reach unmanned ships or other targets within five hours. There are also major environmental challenges related to the export of oil from north-west Russia along the Norwegian coast. In addition to strengthening the Coast Guard, we must ensure that the route of navigation is further off the coast and develop an oil protection tool that is adapted to the demanding climatic conditions in the north. Cooperation with Russia, which has been good for many years, needs to be intensified. However, the centre party also wants to develop cooperation in the north against the other nations that have environmental and industrial interests around the North Pole. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration, which points out that the Government will conduct north-eastern dialogues with all the main countries with interests in the north, we ask the Government to assess the proposal of the Central Party on a North Atlantic Resource Organisation – we have called it NARO – a cooperation organisation between, among others. Norway, Russia, the United States, Canada, Iceland and Denmark, where the aim is to ally with countries with common interests and challenges in the environment and industry in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1798	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1801	It is affordable for Brerk to address the problems in the northern regions, not only in terms of the environment and defence, but also in terms of resources. I have heard several times Breck, who is a central representative in the Central Party, point out on several occasions how important it is to take care of agriculture in Norway. In the forums I've heard him, he's actually completely forgotten the fish. This makes me a little frustrated as a representative from the West. So important is the agriculture of Breck that he is willing to negotiate away the fish and fish processing in Norway. Of course, I am concerned, both as a representative from the West and as one who speaks for Coast Norway, both West and North Norway, where the great value creation takes place. Therefore, I have to ask: can you expect from the Central Party over the next four years that the primary industries will be treated differently and prioritised differently? Or – in other words – is it an advantage to smell poultry rather than smell fish for the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1808	Now it is that there may be different smells from different people, so I'm not going to comment on it any further. I think it's interesting that someone raises the question of whether it's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, because that's what the representative Woldseth is asking about. In the first Bondevik government, where I was a fisheries minister, it was a central point to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, the two primary industries. One was the offensive attitude of the fishing industry towards the WTO. The second was the defensive attitude: to safeguard the interests of agriculture within the WTO. And it's completely possible to keep the same thinking with it. We are very concerned that we should take care of the great interests of agriculture, in order to secure the districts, in order to secure jobs. But we are also very concerned about safeguarding the offensive interests of market access for fish. The Government Declaration drawn up on Soria Moria fully respects it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1817	I think it is interesting that Breck here addresses important aspects of the fisheries policy. It is quite clear that an active and good fisheries policy is something we are becoming increasingly dependent on in an increasingly international market. What I want to deepen a little further is some of the statements that both came before the election and have come after the election, about this with the allocation of allowances. It's a question that has created very big discussions along the whole coast. The former government, which has unfortunately left off, and the fisheries organisations have been quite a few to say that having stability between the different fleet groups is something that has been a value in itself. There are doubts as to whether the new government and Breck will follow up on this. One more question: the Soria Moria declaration also states that the district quota schemes should be strengthened and put into more active use. Can Brek deepen a little bit about this as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1826	Firstly, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Soria Moria declaration is so comprehensive in terms of fisheries policy. It is excellent that such an important district industry has been taken seriously, and that there are so clear leads for the further development of the Soria Moria Declaration. An active and good fisheries policy is important both to ensure profitability and to ensure development in all parts of the country. I would like to stress that part of the objective of the policy set out in the Soria Moria Declaration is that the fisheries policy should once again have a regional policy dimension. As regards the issue of quota allocation, there is one element that the Minister for Fisheries needs to develop further. But there are no changes in the quota allocation between sea and coast in that document. With regard to the district quota system, it is such that it will be assessed by the high-speed sample, as part of developing a new and better structural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1837	Lars Peder Breck came in as a fresh breath as a state council member of the Bondevik I government. Now the role is a little different, defending the new government's policy. It may at times be required. A few specific issues concerning industrial policy: Will industrial policy still have elements of potential to allocate resources to product development for the individual enterprise? I'm thinking about the FUNN scheme. Do you want to continue? There is a lot of openness in the debates, both in the Soria Moria document and in what we heard yesterday. Doesn't Lars Peder Breck see the possibility that if one goes too far, one will weaken its own positions? There have been some criticisms of the previous government that one has been too little open. Does he see the father?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1846	I would like to thank Mr Auchan's representative for the short period of time I was given the opportunity to be Minister of Fisheries in the first Bondevik administration. I also hope that I can contribute to fresh breath and fresh debate in this room now. I am very concerned about industrial policy, and can only answer immediately that the FUNN tax scheme is to be continued. When it comes to transparency and the WTO, I think it's right that you have a greater degree of transparency than you've ever had. I see it as the new foreign minister and the new Minister of Agriculture are also very concerned about it. At the same time, I see that one has to balance it against the interests that you have to care for. But at least I feel convinced that a more active and more offensive approach to the WTO is important for Norwegian interests, for agriculture and for districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1855	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1858	The government has made it clear that it wants to pursue a forward-looking environmental policy. It is good that you have the ambition to continue the environmental offensive for which the Co-operation Administration stood. The characteristic feature of the Cooperative Government was that, in addition to having an ambition, it could show good results. The co-operation management has set a marked track record in environmental policy. The protected area in Norway has been increased by 50 per cent over four years. The cooperative management has agreed to protect an additional fifty watercourses. There has been a record investment in public transport that has produced great and good results in several of our cities. The list of the good results of the environmental policy of the Cooperative Government is long. The Soria Moria Declaration shows that the new government has ambitions to follow up this policy in a number of areas. That's good. However, the declaration is also marked by a lack of clarity on essential points and by the failure of the cooperating parties to reach agreement and therefore raises important issues. The left is disappointed that it was not provided for the permanent protection of areas outside the Lofoten in the case of petroleum activities. I am convinced that if there had been a priority case for SV, it would have been possible to reach here, as was the case in other areas of the declaration. Now it is such that, on the contrary, the door is kept on fire for operations even outside Lofoten during this period. The left will be fought for petroleum-free zones at the Lofoten and in the Barents Sea areas where it is necessary for the environment to prevail over petroleum activity. The left agrees with the main direction indicated for CO2 management for gas power plants. The starting point is that CO2 is a resource and not a problem. But the uncertainty in the statement at this point makes it impossible to say today whether the Kårstø gas power station will be without cleaning for two years, for five years or even more. What we can conclude is that the gas power plant for which the Stoltenberg I government authorised, without requiring CO2 emissions, will probably open its operations during today's Stoltenberg administration and then with CO2 emissions. There's a lot of talk about the state helping to clean up. What has been the main problem so far is that in the case of the Kårstø plant, with the hand-held concession of the Stoltenberg administration, natural force has rejected any attempt to obtain a fissure layer and a contribution from the State. It has now been said that these costs must be fully borne by the state. It has been said that 15 years of gas power debate is now over. I think, unfortunately, that's wrong. The right thing is that the gas power debate is going into a new phase. The Left’s Minister of Transport of the Cooperation Government was given a record collective effort. That's because she prioritised it, and that's because the Left prioritised it. It remains to be seen what will result from the policy of the new Central Party Minister of Transport. I record many fears that the collective effort will stagnate. For the Left, it was disappointing that the detailed Soria Moria statement does not say a word about what the Government will do in relation to the challenges we face in relation to the Sellafield plant. The left is pleased that we have succeeded in stopping the emissions of technetium from Sellafield, but this plant still represents a safety risk and an environmental risk that makes it very important that Norwegian authorities have an active policy vis-à-vis British authorities in this area. That's what the Left will try to contribute to. We expect the Government to work actively on these issues. It is natural to give the Government time to show what it stands for in environmental policy. But we don't have time to wait a long time for the environmental solutions to the major challenges we're facing. The Left therefore expects the Government to use its budget proposal to clarify what action they will take in energy and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1892	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1895	It might have been tempting to respond to some of the issues that Kvassheim now raised, but I will leave that to another post. The left has received a declaration from the incoming government stating that full-scale CO2 removal installations are now to be put in place, inter alia. Kårstø, and that the state must contribute financially to this. It's strange that the Left put in government for four years and didn't get anything in this area. But leave it for now. But then there was a big man from the Left, Sponheim, who talked a lot about how big the Left had become after the election and what ambitions they had to be the big center party in Norwegian politics, and that they were to gather everyone together. He concluded that the Progress Party was also partly present here. Then I have to ask: how will the Left's environmental policy be when Kvassheim is negotiating with the Progress Party in order to achieve the major option in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1905	When Lars Sponheim explained earlier today why it wasn't natural for the Left to cooperate with the Progress Party in government, he just weighed the big difference it is on our two parties on the environmental issue. That is why it is also the case that, when the Cooperative Government developed a more offensive environmental policy, one in many cases succeeded in doing so together with SV, and in some cases with the Workers' Party in Stortinget. The left has the ambition to be a leading environmental party even in this period, and we look forward to being able to cooperate with the Government on those issues where there is a basis for it. This is where I believe that the declaration in some areas is positive, while in other areas it misrepresents what is going to be the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1910	There have been many congratulations in this Chamber today, and I also want to take the opportunity to congratulate the Left with a good choice, especially the representative Gunnar Kvassheim, who seems to be the committee leader – a very important position from Rogaland’s point of view – for the Energy and Environment Committee. 99 pst. the gas is currently exported out of the country. Last year we imported 10 pst. of our power consumption. It has been very important for the Progress Party to increase the use of natural gas in Norway. Light Energy has been a precursor to the use of natural gas, and they want to build a gas power plant in Risavika. My question then becomes Kvassheim: Will Kvassheim, head of the Energy and Environment Committee, work to ensure that no stricter technology requirements are imposed in Norway than what is done in the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1919	This is not the annual meeting for the rogaland bench – at present it just looks just like that. I thank you for the congratulations on a possible position, which may be clarified in a short time. I can assure you that I will work actively to ensure that Norway, as an energy nation, will be able to take advantage of the great opportunities we have in this area. It also includes gas. I agree with the Government's ambitions that this will happen in a manner consistent with our Kyoto commitments. But I'm impatient to see what the government's policy means in terms of technology and willingness to invest financially. I am not sure that the necessary will is there to make use of gas in accordance with the environmental policy commitments we have. But at least here, the left is going to be a watchbow and a pusher.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1928	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1931	The last government's first step in school policy when it joined four years ago was to ask for an investigation into what would be saved by cutting one school year. The kids were to go through school faster, start high school when they were 14-15 years old, and finish when they were 17. A more effective childhood had to be investigated to afford tax relief. The new government has a completely different starting point. We want to expand the number of hours, and if the kids are to learn more, more teachers are needed. A forward-looking school does not mean that we need to invest less in data, as the previous government did — rather on the contrary. But if we're going to bet on quality and more knowledge in school, it has a price tag. The new Minister of Finance made this clear during the election campaign. Our message to School-Norway, she said, is that now the bottom is reached, now the arrows are going to point up again. Many suggest that the Christian People's Party disagreed with much of the school policy of the previous government. Former Minister of Education Jon Lilletun's ideas will be found in many of the red-green school visions, so in Stortinget we want the Christian People's Party back as part of the coalition of a common school for all and against the principles of the market in school. We invite the Christian People's Party to a new collaboration on a new law of free school that can ensure better predictability, both for the communities that have fresh schools, and also for the colleges themselves. The red-green will continue the cross-political consensus that has been around the promise of knowledge. We must take seriously that Norwegian students do not have good enough skills in Norwegian and real science. When the Workers' Party supported the introduction of the national tests, we had completely different assumptions than the result. The implementation of the national tests by the previous government has led to the ranking of schools, and we cannot support it, as the result has been. So we want to change the character of the national samples. We will also focus much more on the professional and apprentice situation than the previous government did. Almost all high school students go to high school today, but the drop-out rate in high school is too high. Closer follow-up to each, better cooperation between secondary and higher education and more apprenticeships and better counselling can address this. SFOs have been getting worse in recent years. We want to reduce the parental pay and raise the quality. If we're going to be able to reduce the increasing social divisions in school, we're not going to build more private schools, but, on the contrary, provide better SFOs and better homework. So our message now to school students, parents and teachers is that we know that quality costs. We put school in front of taxes, because it deserves today's children and young people. Savings school is a bad economy. School bets are far more important for the country's competitiveness than for the rich to get more.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1946	It may be tempting on this occasion to think a little about the election vows I heard when I was in Rogaland: SV candidates who have said that they are going out of the EEA Agreement, centre party candidates who have said that the most important thing is to have a protective break in the country, working party candidates who promised LO that now there should at least not come any strange rules for gas power plants in Norway. These elections are gone in the declaration we are discussing today. It may be tempting to twist the knife in open wounds, but I also recognise that the need for compromise exists, even if it happens in key heart matters for the government parties. I noticed that the Prime Minister is inviting to cooperate with the opposition. That's what I'm open to, but if such cooperation is to work, it's a good thing that we, as an opposition party, know a little bit more about what the government actually wants. Some of the points that stand there are more likely to act as a misalignment of the central position rather than a realistic political course. The chapters on energy and environmental policy are good examples of this. Personally, I am pleased to hear the representative Langeland from SV argue for the government's policy on offensive petroleum activities in the northern regions. But I'm not sure that after all, the government will follow the signals it's given. After all, it was all the previous Stoltenberg government that closed the same areas. Although the Labour Party, after the election in 2001, has changed a lot of its policy to become a government, I am not taking pleasure in advance in this area. The compromise in the government is that one only pushes this difficult matter ahead of itself for at least a year. We are now to wait for a management plan, a work to be led by an SV Environment Minister. The ministry closed just an hour ago search drilling in the Goliath field because Bellona has complained to the ministry. It doesn't seem very offensive in my eyes. I then understand why the government statement, despite vague words about the northern regions, has a very clear point that they will already consider applying to the IMO for the Barents Sea to be declared particularly vulnerable. It gives a clear signal in my eyes. The working party has also produced itself as a driver for the construction of gas power plants. Until 12 September, the requirement was that power plants should have the same framework conditions in Norway as in Europe. The government statement now states that they aim to have the Kårstø gas power plant CO2 management from 2009. Then I remember the statements of the previous Energy Policy spokesman from the Workers' Party. In the evening post on 3 February 2005 he said: ‘The price of CO2 cleaning will be one billion dollars per year. gas power plants.’... ‘The electricity price is going to go on the roof. The aluminium industry and other powerful industries will move out of the country.» The government is now saying correctly that it will ‘contribute financially’ to the establishment of CO2 management at Kårstø. But what does it really mean by ‘contribute’? Are you talking about a tener for a cup of coffee for each of the works, or are you talking about taking the full extra cost of the project? For Natural Power, it is actually quite essential that such details are clarified before they stick the spade in the ground. I understand even better why the government in its government statement says that they will work for a secure power supply, but they say absolutely nothing about this happening at acceptable prices. Another area that is relatively fun is predatory. Here we know that the Center Party and SV have been at war for many years, and here it is done a good craft writing a little about war and peace and such. The carnivorous settlement must remain at the bottom, so it opens up more predators in the country. However, in order to tame the Centre Party, it has been said that the Centre Party will be allowed to measure populations, to measure the impact of community communities, and in addition, to choose whether to use walls or fences to keep predators away, so that they can maintain ‘environmentally friendly land grazing throughout the country’, as stated in the Declaration. It's even going to be easier to shoot these predators, but we're still going to end up with more predators than before. I'm just going to see SV's Environment Minister nocknowledgment of the Center Party's armed peasants behind their defence positions, funded by state resources. I don't think this is going very well, but we'll probably take that fight here on a later occasion. In any case, the declaration shows that very many energy and environmental compromises have been reached. In important areas, such as hydropower, protection, predators, gas power and petroleum in the north, disagreements are masked by round formulations. The political solutions that we get are left to see that the issues are actually discussed here in the Chamber. Only then will it be possible to carry out the piece of art on which the Prime Minister challenged us, namely to demonstrate that one of the three parties has gone far beyond what they can stand for in terms of the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20.ana.ud2073e1977	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is immediately running. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
