ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e35	Honourable co-representatives! Former Mayor, Vice President of Odelstinget, State Council and Head of the Christian People's Party Kåre Gudbrand Kristiansen died on Saturday morning, December 3, 2005, 85 years old. He had been sick for a few weeks. Kristiansen had a strong anchor in his Christian faith, and it was also his main source of inspiration for action in society. Kåre Kristiansen was born in Bergen on March 11, 1920, as the son of the famous preacher Michael Kristiansen. He had his professional career in the NSB, where he went the degrees from beginning as a showboy, through various positions, including. as a teacher at the Railway School and as a traffic inspector, until he became manager in 1970. He kept his membership of the Norwegian Railway Federation all his life, and also used the ‘railway director’ as his civil title. Nevertheless, it must be said that it was political work through the Christian People's Party that was Kåre Kristiansen's life. He was elected to the City Council of Nesodden in 1951, and met here until 1967, most of the time also in the Presidency. When his national political career was over, he took a final stage in the Nesodden municipal government again in the period 1991-1995. So his 75th birthday he could mark as an active elected politician. He has had a large number of jobs in his party, including: Head of the Christian People's Party Youth, 1955-1956, and Vice-Chairman of the 1961 party. He was the party leader in two rounds, first from 1975 to 1977, then from 1979 to 1983. From 1984 to 1986 he was head of the Oslo Christian People's Party. In addition, he was part of a wide range of committees and selections. As Secretary of State at Egil Aarvik in the Department of Social Affairs from 1965, he was responsible for speeding up work and introducing popular protection. This reform was adopted by the Stortinget in 1966 and introduced from 1 January 1967. In 1968, Kristiansen returned to the NSB. From the 1969 elections to the 1971 Borten government, he met at Stortinget as an alternate for Egil Aarvik. In 1973 he was elected permanent representative of the Oslo Christian People's Party. Before the elections in 1977 he withdrew from the Stortinget and as party leader, but it quickly turned out that he was far from finished with politics. In 1979 he again became party leader, and in 1981 he was elected again to the Stortinget as representative of Oslo. The 1970s stood in many ways in the sign of the abortion struggle, and Kåre Kristiansen was, among others. as chairman of the Social Committee in Stortinget, one of the most profiled abortion opponents in Stortinget. In 1981 he became head of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United Kingdom. At the formation of the government in 1983 he became Minister of Oil and Energy, and had this post until the government Willoch left in April 1986. After the 1989 election he left the Stortinget. Few stood on as many barricades as Kåre Kristiansen. He had a strong social policy commitment. He was an eloquent spokesman for the non-socialist parties to cooperate in government, and last but not least, he was a warm and glowing spokesman for the State of Israel. This commitment led him to withdraw from the Nobel Committee in 1994, protesting that the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Yassir Arafat along with Shimon Peres and Yitzak Rabin. As a political debater, Kristiansen appeared well-defined, knowledgeable and often rhetorical. With its odd and distinctive form and its profiled opinions, Kåre Kristiansen could provoke many, and he could be perceived as a contentious person. It stormed often around him, and he never waved away to take a conflict or debate. He could be a tough counter-debate, but he was always able to separate matters from people. As a person he had great integrity. He was an incredibly warm-hearted person. Co-representatives will remember his popular and comradely attitude, his quick lines, good stories and contagious laughter. He was an active participant in the social debate until the fall. Through newspaper articles and lectures, he put words on thoughts and opinions that were often corrective to the widely accepted. Knut Hamsun wrote in his day about Bjørnstar Bjørnson: «When he is silent, it becomes silent.» A bit of the same feeling comes from the fact that Kåre Kristiansen’s voice will no longer sound in the social debate. A great man and a solid and good representative of political life have passed away. We bring peace to Kåre Kristiansen' memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e80	It is a unanimous position by the Defence Committee, and that should therefore not be a reason for adding too many words. I just want to say that the changes we are now being invited to adopt are quite large numbers. There's a lot of technique in it, and it's written in a way that's not all of the world available, but there's also a lot of reality in it. It is true that the defence budget is a very rough budget. This means that it is important for the Storting to follow closely how the budget assumptions are both followed up and changed, and I will admit that there are good arguments for, for example, at the end of the year for the Committee. to convene consultations on why these changes are now being put on the table. The Committee has not chosen to do so at this stage, but although at the end of the year we cannot manage much of the realities of a budget, it is nevertheless an argument for doing so, precisely because the budget is so gross. I will not ignore the fact that on later occasions, faced with changes in this magnitude, we will put ourselves on that practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e89	St. pp. No 17 for 2005–2006 is interesting reading in many ways. It gives, or at least can give, an image of a development not only economically but also of how the various weapons and institutions work, and what challenges they have had this year. Entering into the depth of all figures is a major task, a task that others may have to do, but it is interesting to look back on the corresponding case last year, where the Committee said the following: «The Committee agrees with minor deviations and foresees expenditure», but asks that the defence also draw up realistic budgets and ensure sound financial management. These are strong and clear words that can't be misunderstood, that is. that in the future, the then Defence Committee did not want too many figures to change chapters and records. It should be thought that such things were unnecessary. It says under many of the chapters that the reduction is due to technical shifts to cap. 1725 to cultivate the chapter to reflect the new joint departments established and subject to the Armed Forces Staff and the reorganization of the Armed Forces. This is probably right and reasonable. But when, for example, a cap. 1731 The army is reduced by nearly 500 million. kr, cap. 1732 Sea defence with nearly 80 million. kr, Air Force with well 70 million. kr, Heimevertet with 35 million. kr, etc., it's not small money we're talking about, and of a budget of NOK 30 billion, it's also talking about some percentages switching chapters, without politicians being involved – not that I think we're going to be down to the smallest crown, but still. The proposed chapters include: cap. 1725 Joint institutions and expenditure under the Armed Forces Staff of just over 500 million. kr, cap. 1740 FLO with almost 200 million. kr, cap. 1760 New procurement of tangible and new buildings and structures with 60 million. kr. But there are also major changes within the chapters, where, among other things. Item 47 New constructions and installations have been proposed increased by 170,8 million. kr. That's how we can proceed, but I'm stopping there – with the exception of entry 45 Big new purchases. So here, C-130, the Hercules planes, we're talking about an increase of 33 million. kr for maintenance to keep them operational. This is clearly necessary, but it also shows that our Hercules planes, which are almost 40 years old, need to be replaced. Finally, I would like to repeat the Committee's comment last year that we asked for realistic budgets and that one provides good financial management. It must be in the interests of the defence that this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e108	With the background perhaps in the last article, from the representative of Bredvold, I will make some comments on the regrouping proposition. The Ministry of Defence has in St.prp. No 17 for 2005-2006 submitted proposals for certain changes to the appropriations entered in the 2005 Defence Budget. The regrouping proposal is a central tool for ensuring good financial management in the defence sector. The proposal intends to adapt the appropriations as a result of changes in assumptions and strategic decisions during the financial year. The defence sector, in line with the 2005 classification proposal, is well within the framework of achieving the main objective over the long-term period 2002–2005, with an operating savings of DKK 2 billion by the end of 2005 compared to an option without conversion. The 2005 savings forecast is above NOK 2.2 billion. National investment in property, construction and civil engineering increased by 171 million. kr. The increase is due to 15.8 million. kr to ensure the adaptation of the old buildings of the Frederikswerft yard in Stavern and 155 million. kr to ensure conversion-critical investment projects in 2005-2006. There is also room for the strengthening of Defense Music by 7.5 million. NOK 33 million. kr has been fed to keep the transport aeroplane C-130 in operational condition and 43 million. kr in connection with the rescheduling of cooperation in PRT in North Afghanistan. The latter is necessary to manage expected climatic problems. Cape. 1725 Joint institutions and expenditure under the Armed Forces Staff have been proposed at 500 million. kr. The main emphasis of this is due to technical adjustments to achieve a clean-up of the chapter in order to reflect the new joint departments established and subject to the Armed Forces Staff and the reorganization of the Armed Forces Staff. The funds here are taken from the different branch chapters. The reclassification proposition is essentially a technical proposition. It formalises wage compensation for 2005, savings in the expenditure framework of the Ministry, adjustment of appropriations according to changes in assumptions, updates and formalisation of income, and formalisation of technical changes between chapters. Overall, the regrouping represents a reduction in the Ministry of Defence’s budget of 82.6 million. kr as a result of the difference between smaller income and additional appropriations in 2005. There may seem to be a large number of movements between chapters, but mainly this applies to technical adjustments. The aim of the regrouping is to bring the appropriations under each chapter and item in line with the changes in the budgetary assumptions that have taken place since the adoption of the defence budget for 2005, including subsequent amendments to the budget. The regrouping aims to maximise the optimal use of resources. This ensures good financial management by ensuring that resources can be continuously sought against the highest priority areas. When we dealt with the defence budget here in Stortinget, I informed about the construction of frigate docks and its quality assurance. The quality assurance was not finally completed. The quality assurance has now been completed, and including a safety margin, the project is now costing 381 million. kr. It is important to stress that the decision to build the dock is firm, but the Government is considering other alternatives and has not yet concluded. That is why I may have to come back to Stortinget. In the light of what I briefed you on last time, during the budgetary procedure, I now just wanted to inform you about the process further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e127	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e130	I thank the Council of State for an interesting article. The council was in a post that I also mentioned a little about, and which I thought I would ask the council about. Item 47 New constructions. It says: ‘Furthermore, an increase in the adaptation of the old buildings of the Frederikswerft in Stavern for use in the justice sector is due.’ That's 15.8 million. kr. The defence budget is relatively small, and we're going to spend the most money at the pointed end. We all agree on that. Then it might be interesting to hear what the Minister of Defense thinks about future disposal, how we're going to dispose of the property in the Defense, and how much money we're going to spend to get the opportunity to dispose of it. So how much money are we going to spend on cleaning up buildings that we're going to give away, in this case to another sector, but also to the civil?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e144	With regard to the disposal of properties in the current year, the Defence and Ministry have used the disposal file decided by the Stortinget. What we've proposed for next year is that you don't go to the King in the government council with disposal. When it comes to further questions about cleaning up buildings, it's clear that we're going to clean up and take care of the buildings that we're going to keep. Otherwise, we will dispose of it in accordance with the instructions given by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e151	Does Jan Petersen want the word for a line?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e154	No, for articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e161	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e164	The form of line or post may be hip-hop to the point, but I had two reactions to the Minister of Defence's posts. One is that she said a number of times that the aim was to adjust the budget to the changed assumptions, and she also used words like bringing the budget into line with changed assumptions. That is in itself okay, but then I have to be allowed to underline what is in the position, namely that changed assumptions have to come to Stortinget at a time when Stortinget can control the consequences of it. It's not like you pick up at the end of the year, and then you see how it goes. It is clear that we in the Committee and the Storting will want to be involved in the audits during the year. So I hope it was a random language usage. One of the things that illustrated this is just the dock. I noticed with interest that the Council of State is now open that this could result in other things than building the dock, and that the Government will come back to it. I think that's a useful and sensible way to respond. But my question is, when you're up to 381 million. kr: Does this mean that the Council of State looks after itself, if you go on with it, an increased need for money in 2006? And will the Council of State then come back with this at such an early stage that we can possibly decide on the impact of the 2006 budget, and in such a way that we not only adapt the budget to what has happened during the year, but that we can actually control the impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e174	It is important that the Storting has a word in mind and is involved in deciding major changes to be made to the budget, but some changes must be made during the year. I could mention some examples of this. These included: investments related to PRT Meymaneh, there may be investments related to aeroplanes to keep them in the air, etc. It is part of the adjustments that have now been made within the budget. But I'm very concerned that the Storting will be informed and be involved in determining the changes that will occur during the year. With regard to the dock, as the representative Petersen asked for, it is that since I informed about it during the budgetary procedure, I thought it was right now to inform about the final result of the quality assurance, which was 381 million. kr. I also said at the time that it could be relevant that we did an investigation of alternatives. Those options were then an open-ended dock, which is a built-in dock, but which is not in the mountains, or a floating dock. These two options have been investigated in a number of ways, and we're assessing whether we're going to go on with it. Therefore, the Government has not concluded. There is a time limit for this, 31 December. When it comes to coming back to Stortinget, I will, of course, do it, at the latest when the Ministry of Defence provides information about investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e183	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 988]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e199	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 990]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e207	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-16.ana.ud2620e2379	There is no record.
