ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e113	The representative Heikki Holmås has asked for the word to withdraw a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e116	I made a proposal here yesterday. However, on the basis of the fact that it does not seem possible to obtain treatment under paragraph 28 of the third paragraph of Article 28(c), I would like to draw the proposal from Ågot Valle and myself, Document No. 8:102 for 2004-2005, and rather promote it on an appropriate basis during the debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e121	Heikki Holmås’ notice that this proposal has now been withdrawn is taken into account. The representative Trond Giske will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e126	I would like to make a proposal that lottery activities on board Norwegian ships on a route between Norwegian and foreign ports remain lawful.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e131	Of course, the proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. However, the President makes it clear that all Document No. Eight proposals which will not be discussed before 17 June will be deleted. The President is uncertain whether there is any particular intention to submit proposals to various committees at this time of the Storting session. But, but! [[Laughter]] Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 9 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e149	Over the past two weeks, there has been a number of debate on the significant debt cancellation mechanism in place, which includes many of the poorest countries, amounting to EUR 45 billion. Both our own development minister and several analysts have pointed out the danger of this debt reduction at the expense of other development aid that is often aimed at the world's poorest. As an example of what has been said, I can refer to a leader in the Financial Times the other day, where one says that the strong concern can be what this debt loss will mean for future development contributions. Giving up IMF loans will weaken the fund's balance sheet and thus weaken the capacity for new loans. This is a real cost and is likely to have to be borne by the medium-income borrowers rather than by the poorest countries. In this way, a short term might say that there is extra money for the poorest. But the real problem can remain with the World Bank and the African Development Bank, for these institutions depend on the repayment to finance parts of new loans to poor countries. One simple way to think about it is that one dollar can be repaid one dollar less at the disposal of loans. So far the Financial Times. It is worrying that some of the largest and richest countries have limited themselves to relatively short-term commitments to cover this compensation. The more important is that in this case, as in the next two cases on today's map, we follow up our obligations. I would like to take the opportunity to say that I then assume that the Minister for Development, in his annual statement through the presentation of the budget, will be briefing on how this situation develops. It will also be of particular interest to follow-up on whether the debt gap leads to the desired effects in the recipient countries and their management of an improved economic situation, for the benefit of those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e160	Just a brief comment on this and the next matter in the light of the statements by the representative Vallersnes. I think it is also important in this context to point out the positive in the first instance that the G8 is now putting the fight against poverty at an even greater focus than at the previous G8 meetings, and that they have agreed on a solution to cancel multilateral debt. That's positive, and we have to take note of that. And Norway has also contributed here. But the representative Vallersnes is quite right in saying that the key to the whole credibility of this initiative will be in funding and in where the money is taken from. It is important to stress that at the G8 meeting between the finance ministers last Friday and Saturday, it was agreed that the principle of additionality should be based. So it's going to have to use additional resources. However, it is clear that there will be a great temptation on the part of donor countries to redispatch – from other ODA funds to payment in relation to debt obligations. So you'll be in a situation where you might be equidistant. That is why I would like to stress two points. One is that we want to welcome this on our part, but stress the importance of additional resources. We have also said in our comments that we want them to work with a monitoring mechanism – i.e. a monitoring mechanism – internationally, so that we can monitor whether there are actually additional resources coming. The second is that of course this benefits HIP/C country. The usual requirements for a genuine and credible economic policy will then be underpinned. So when the debt is released and money is released, it does not go to other purposes that we have less faith in – to countries that have poor economic policies – but it will be a policy monitoring, as has been the case with HIP/C countries in general. I just want to make these two comments in connection with the debt cancellation initiative: from the Norwegian side we should welcome it, while at the same time taking good care of how it is implemented, and ensuring that the final result is for the benefit of the poorest, and not that they are involved in paying the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e175	At first I would like to express my joy at hearing both the Vallersnes and the Council of State talk about the cancellation of debt, and not relief. So the problem is, will this go beyond other, regular assistance? There is every reason to fear, because in the work to reach the 0.7 target, a number of countries have found more. to cancel debts. It can be done in any case. What's worse is that one tries to include in the 0.7 measure, for example. that residents send money home to relatives in developing countries. What may be even worse is that one tries to pull out what's going on in the DAC committee and tries to deploy military forces, that is, where there's a fight. The government must support their efforts. But we don't have to go so far as to believe that the cancellation of debt will prevent anything. We know that it actually goes nine times more efficient capital northwards than it goes southwards. The worst thing that happens here is that among the peoples of the rich countries, we make the impression that we give a lot – of course we do, not least Norway. But we should also be aware that it's a very big fuelling of debt, and that parts of that debt are recorded under conditions that I'll at least be able to define as illegitimate. This is a good start, not least because there are so many powerful forces that are now taking the initiative – we are actually talking about the G8. We in Norway must do everything we can to support those initiatives. I have not received any signal here today that the government council or the government party has intended to slow down when this is the case. They only came with an adjacent index finger – I saw it. But let's back up on what's going on in the G8! It must be Norway's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2945]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e202	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2945]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e218	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e234	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e250	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, for the other speakers 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e257	The aim of a foreign policy, for Norway as for other countries, is to promote and protect its interests. When asked where the main emphasis of Norway’s vital interests lies — the interests that no one other than Norway can define and defend — it is appropriate to respond with a strofe from Rolf Jacobsen’s fine poem ‘Nord’. He says, ‘It is far from this country. Most of it is north.’ Most of Norway is north. The majority of the Norwegian economic zone and one third of the mainland coastline are north of the Arctic Circle. Including Svalbard, Norwegian territory goes far into the Arctic Ocean. The important strategic resources available in these areas say that most are north, not only in the geographical sense, but also in the form of vital social interests. Norwegian Northern Territory Policy is important for the whole country. Just as the inhabitants of all the high-block floors have an interest in the sound and safeness of the roof of the building, it is important for the whole country that the Norwegian authorities respect sovereignty, rights and administrative responsibilities in the northern regions. This is what the Norwegian authorities do every day. However, with increased international interest in the north, we need to take greater account of other countries’ interests and activities affecting development and opportunities here. We manage resources that are not only important to us, but important to the whole of Europe and, in fact, also in a global perspective. Therefore, Northern Region policy belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Nordgebiet Message has created a lot of activity in a number of environments. The government has also been honoured for the first time to have taken the initiative of setting up a Northern Region Committee, led by the Director of the Polar Institute, Olav Orheim, who delivered his in-depth investigation in 2003, and then for the first time to develop a Northern Region policy. The Foreign Affairs Committee has agreed to make a significant effort to deal with the notification. There are several trips and hearings organised. In other words, there is a comprehensive and broad process behind the Northern Region policy that is now anchored in the Stortinget. An overall committee supports the core elements of the Government's strategy in the setting. Bilateral North-Area dialogues with central and western countries and actors and extensive bilateral cooperation with Russia constitute the two main pillars. Measures to strengthen Norwegian North Sea Research and Competence both on the mainland and on Svalbard, the initiative on regional cooperation forums – Barents Cooperation and Arctic Councils – measures for increased food cooperation across the Norwegian-Russian border, strengthening cooperation on nuclear safety and extensive project cooperation with Russia are also widely endorsed. People-to-people cooperation and regional cooperation are important to ensure both political stability and sustainable development, which are the main objectives of the Government's Northern Region policy. The background to the increased international interest in the northern regions is largely related to the oil and gas deposits. At the same time, the north is rich in living natural resources, which have been the basis for living conditions and housing — and still must be. Climate change in the Arctic is a fact. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change indicates that global temperatures may rise between 1.4 and 5.8 oC over the next hundred years. The glaciers in the Arctic have melted and retreated over the past few years. This has an impact on the natural basis and on all human activity in the north. In view of this, in particular, two challenges are at the heart. Firstly, economic activity in the north cannot happen without the consideration of the vulnerable environment in the north. Fishing activity and oil and gas activity must live side by side. A majority of the Committee believes that this is the case. Yes, not only that, a majority believe Norwegian petroleum activity is important for Norway to get a hand on the steering wheel. There is no question of whether there should be petroleum activity in the Barents Sea or not. Russia is currently producing oil in the Pechora Sea. Oil transport from Russian ports in the Barents Sea is increasing year by year. There is great tension in the expansion of the world’s assumed largest gas field – the Shtokman field – off the coast of the Kola Peninsula. The question is to what extent Norway is going to participate in the oil and gas activity. In today's Evening Post, we read that the head of the Russian gas giant Gazprom boasts Norwegian companies, pointing out that in the technological field, Hydro and Statoil are world leaders. Not least Norwegian companies have a significant environmental competence which is in Norwegian interest to get to the Russian side in the Barents Sea. The government has opened up exploration in the Norwegian part of the Barents Sea within some of the most stringent environmental frameworks in the world. The snow-white development took place with a very close dialogue and in cooperation between the developers and the fisheries interests in the area. The Norwegian oil industry has shown that technology only evolves with activity. We would not have had any Troll, Worm Lange, or Snow White expansion if we had been sitting waiting for technology to come down from the sky. A clean protection strategy in the Barents Sea, as SV advocates, will weaken our position and our ability to influence. The second important point is that several countries need to have a common understanding of the challenges we face in the north and of Norwegian needs and interests. The government conducts a very active energy dialogue with Russia, and has close bilateral cooperation in a number of areas. Nordic dialogues are underway with a number of countries — the United States, Canada, Germany and the EU. We also need to involve civil society and business, which through its channels and in its way can contribute to sustainable development in the north. The oil and gas perspectives in the north update the international legal challenges facing Norway in the north. For a total of 35 years, negotiations with Russia on a demarcation line for continental shelf and 200-mile zones have been ongoing without results. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Government that a prerequisite for fully exploiting the energy potential in the north is that a demarcation line is negotiated. Until this happens, a more thorough monitoring of the undisputed part of the Barents Sea will be useful to provide a better overview of the resources and thereby further develop Norwegian competence in and in the area. The zone of fishing protection is disputed. Few countries support the Norwegian primary view that Norway has access to a 200-mile economic zone around the island. The fishing zone and the provisions of Norway have been designed, widely respected, albeit not recognised. In particular, our closest neighbours – Iceland and Russia – dispute the Norwegian administrative measures and refer to the provisions of the Svalbard Treaty. Therefore, credibility, predictability and sustainable management are essential in order to achieve a longer-term international understanding of Norwegian rights, regulations and control measures. Today, illegal and unreported fishing is the main threat to responsible resource management. Therefore, the main focus of cooperation between Norway and Russia on management and control in the Barents Sea has also been on strengthening control of trans-shipment of fish in the Barents Sea. The agreements established for the mutual satellite tracking of fishing vessels are of major importance. Of course, the role of the Coast Guard is very central. An overall committee points out that Norway lacks multilateral fora to address central Norwegian interests in. The Committee also points out that other European countries have this possibility in the EU. EU countries have a strong interest in stable energy supplies and have therefore established an active energy dialogue with Russia. Norway, the second largest energy exporter in Europe, is not at the table. The Director of the NUPI, Sverre Lodgaard, has pointed out that as long as Norway is outside the EU, there is reason to believe that Russia weighs more heavily on EU countries than Norway does. Therefore, a unanimous committee requires the Government to give top priority to dialogue with the EU and with the EU Member States. We need to ensure Norwegian influence on the northern dimension of the EU, the development of EU neighbourhood policy and the EU strategic partnership with Russia. The Committee attaches great importance to the development of Norwegian competence in the north. Here we have a lot to build on. In the foreword of «Knowledge and Odour», written by Peter Wessel Zaffe, we can read that «the tree of knowledge felt little tempted by the twilight between the cliffs». The book came out in 1942, and a lot has happened since then. There is more sense than ignorance in the north, and the environments of competence are many and strong, and in particular our climate and environmental competence is significant. The government proposes to create a bar institute. In addition, the Government proposes to establish an international research fund linked to the Arctic Council. The international polar year 2007-2008 needs to be exploited through research projects and activities related to the north. Knowledge is likely to be the most critical resource for Norway in the policy of the North, both in day-to-day management and control of marine areas, in ensuring ecosystem-based resource management and in bilateral and international negotiations. Norway must be the best in the north. Nordic policy affects a number of departments and departments. A clear challenge is to ensure better coordination of Norwegian north-eastern policies, both at political and administrative level. Here the Government has taken important steps, both by providing coordination responsibility with an early anchoring in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and by setting up a separate Northern Region Selection in the administration. The interministerial Polar Committee, which coordinates ongoing work on Norwegian polar policy, is a model that has worked well. In addition, the Government establishes a contact committee for the Nordic regions. The latter is not least important, given the important role played by regional and local authorities, as well as business organisations and civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e315	The message suggests a so-called "decreased oil and gas extraction" in the Nordic region. We know that there are already major environmental problems in the Arctic. Of course, most are linked to chemicals that have come from your long-distance, air transport and water transport. Back to the late oil and gas extraction: A lot of this argument is based on a feeling that the Russians are going to start pretty fast. I'd like to ask the case leader if she, after the meetings we've had in Moscow, in Murmansk or in other contexts, has received a clear, clear signal that Russia is going to go offshore in the near future. Or is it like this, as I interpret it, that it will be long, long time before Russia comes to go offshore?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e322	The answer to the last question is that the Russians are already offshore, in the Pechora Sea. I also think there is reason to attach trust to the further Russian plans to seek to develop the big gas field, the Shtokman field. If that happens, and when it does, it also opens up for further extraction of other fields in the Barents Sea. What is important, however, is that Norway and Norwegian companies are given a hand on the steering wheel as much as possible. Norwegian companies have world-class offshore and environmental competence. And to say like one of the people we met at Svalbard, who worked with the employment man, said, from Svalbard it doesn't matter if any emissions come from the Norwegian or Russian side in the Barents Sea. We must have an influence on evolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e329	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e332	As the rapporteur said, increasing interest in the northern regions is primarily justified by the prospect of large volumes of oil and gas in the northern regions, and this could be the most important energy region in the world. But we should not forget the fish resources and the biological resources in the sea, and of course we should not forget the old challenges we face, which are linked to nuclear safety and also to major social problems in North-West Russia, that is our neighbouring country. This new approach offers great opportunities, and it also poses challenges. I would say that it increases the importance of our foreign policy as an interest-based policy, a policy to take care of Norwegian interests in this area. This is easy to understand when you know that Norway has access to sea areas six times the size of our territory. In addition, the Barents Sea divider is not resolved. The disputed area is more than half the territory of the country. And the protection zone around Svalbard, which we have set up unilaterally, does not have international recognition. It is almost three times larger than the territory of Norway itself. In addition, the major actors, such as the EU, the United States, India, China and Japan, are throwing their eyes on the north. Both Western and Eastern Ural countries want these resources to benefit them, that they should simply go either east or west — or perhaps both. So we have a great need to decide what we want: a clear policy. Only then can we safeguard our own interests, and only then can we intervene with other actors, including those involved. as regards how Russia will develop its socket. This is of great importance to Norway. For example, what does it want? happen in the Shtokman field? The bear Jacobsen just asked a question about whether there are any prospects that the Russians will get started. We have to plan for this to be expanded. I don't know when, but sooner or later I think it'll come. One of the big questions is, where will the gas go? I must remind you that Norway has invested SEK 190 billion in its North Sea pipeline network to Europe. This pipeline network can therefore be used for 50 years longer than we have gas for – what is developed in the Norwegian Sea and the North Sea. We are obliged to deliver to the European continent. So we have a great need to fill our pipeline network lying there, with these difficult investments, also to secure deliveries to the European continent, so that we become credible. That's why there's a big question where the gas from the Shtokman field will go. Will it go to the Baltic Sea, through the Baltic Sea and directly to Europe? Or is there a possibility that we can get a pipeline to the west of the sea, which can be connected to the existing Norwegian pipeline network? Maybe she needs both. I believe it is very important that Norway takes care of its interests in this area, but then we have to intervene, and we need a clear Norwegian policy. I think we can meet the challenges we face in three ways. One is presence and enforcement. We can do this primarily through a predictable and consistent Norwegian policy. Of course, the Coast Guard is a very important instrument in this, and we do. seen in the protection zone around Svalbard. But I would like to stress that the Coast Guard is not supposed to be a military deterrence. It underlined the head of defense at a seminar yesterday. The Coast Guard is going to enforce Norwegian regulations. We cannot solve the problem, for example. that the fishing protection zone around Svalbard is not internationally recognised, using military instruments. We need to realize that these challenges can grow in the future. To date, the Norwegian view of the Svalbard socket has been respected, although it has not been recognised, because everyone has seen that the Norwegian provisions have been in everyone’s interest. But I have to raise the question: what will happen if, for example, that happens? would it be about finding oil and gas in the protection zone? Is it so certain that we will experience the same thing that we are doing now in relation to the fishing resources in the protection zone? It's important for the Coast Guard, with predictable policies, but we can't deal with these future challenges just by using this. Then I get to the second point that we need to focus on, that it's primarily politics, foreign policy, this is about. Although it is not in the position, because the majority did not want to decide on how to organise work on the Northern Region policy, I would like to say – for their own account – that in such a perspective it must be wrong to deprive the Ministry of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of responsibility for the Northern Region policy. I have seen that it is in the position that the Senterpartiet wants its own Northern Region Minister, the Progress Party wants its own directorate. In my opinion, this would be to make North Norway a province in Norway. In fact, North Norway is the opposite. This must be part of national policies, uplifted at national level. Norway must have one clear policy, in particular a clear foreign policy. The government must have clear instruments, as many instruments as are necessary for us to be able to influence our neighbouring countries, Europe and the United States in our best interests, and it can only be handled by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This cannot be fragmented. In my opinion, the Government as such must exert power in expanding bilateral relations with Russia. It's incredibly important. It's foreign policy of rank. We have to make sure that old friends remain friends, for example. U.S.A. I fully agree that we must develop bilateral relations with the European countries. However, I would like to point out the somewhat dry and laconic comment of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, namely that the other European countries can now use the EU as a framework for promoting their interests. We can't. For the first time, we have no multilateral body to exercise our foreign policy in relation to. It requires an even stronger bilateral effort in relation to the European countries and the European Union. This is again foreign policy of rank. All of this must be put in place, of course, and it must be a coordinated, comprehensive policy. The third thing I want to get into is participation. We must try to become participants in the Russian oil and gas business. It's just through our technology and our knowledge that we have the opportunity to have our hands on the wheel. The second is that when environmental conditions so warrant, we should try to shift the Norwegian oil and gas business north and east of the Barents Sea. There's also a way to be present, and thus exert influence over what's going to happen in the Barents Sea itself. These three points – enforcement, a clear, offensive and interest-based Norwegian foreign policy and participation in the activities already under way in the Barents Sea – make me feel like the most important things Norway needs to put into effect. Finally, I would like to point out a relationship, a special feature of the setting – namely that the Progress Party has opted out of all comments relating to the situation of the communities and indigenous peoples. In my opinion, this demonstrates that the Progress Party does not respect the international commitments of Norway and that the Party is not involved in a common struggle across the globe to preserve the common cultural heritage of humanity and the diversity of the human race, which is as important as the biodiversity of nature. I allow myself to be a little bit party-political in the end. I think this may be the deeper reason why the government parties have been so careful to let the people of the Advance Party into leading positions in the country, because if you are going to be there, you have to take care of the rights of all groups. The moral base of society is, of course, the ability to take care of minorities and the position of the weakest in society. I think that here we find a deeper reason for what I said. I must say I have great respect for the firmness shown in that question by both the Prime Minister, the Christian People's Party and the Right. I think the setting sort of reveals something quite essential, but I'm glad that there's a majority for everything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e367	Although this is not particularly surprising, there is reason to say that the Workers' Party is very commendable to contribute to a broad support for Norwegian Northern Region policy. It is very important that such an important policy area be brought together widely. The only thing that gets hurt if we get a big split in the political environment on these issues is Norwegian influence in the north. The committee leader placed great emphasis on Norwegian participation in the north as a condition for us to be able to exercise our influence, including participation in the oil and gas business. Now we are faced with a choice, and the Workers' Party is going to vote for a cooperation with SV and the Center Party – both parties that do not want offensive Norwegian oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea. How will the Workers' Party resolve that conflict if that situation arises?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e376	There were elections four years ago, too, and then the parties that are now in government did not have a clear agreement and a clear understanding of how energy policy in the country should be pursued. So I think the situation is going to be something of the same now, that you have to sit down after the election to discuss what is going to be the government's basis. In addition, I would like to remind you that there are no questions whether we should start up in the Barents Sea or not. We've started up in the Barents Sea South. There's also a difference between SV and the central part. I think we have to be careful, be careful. We have done that, and we should continue to do that. There is also a broad majority in this Chamber. If there should be no earthquake at the time of the option, this will continue after the option is given. After all, it's not fair to negotiate a large majority in the Storting and turn it into a minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e384	I'm going to be allowed to come back in my contribution to the attack that came from the representative of Jagland in terms of our indigenous policy. I want to take care of something else. In today's VG, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has a chronicle, where he points out: ‘It is therefore important that no matter what kind of government Norway receives after the elections, it must be formed on a European basis. We cannot care for our huge interests in the north based on anti-EU rhetoric and military construction.’ Given that it would be a red-green majority and given that the red-greens would form a government, is Iland convinced that it will be a 'European' government and that that government will not bring any sort of 'anti-EU rhetoric'? It is precisely the two parties that he intends to cooperate with, the Centre Party and the SV, which, a little further forward in the chronicle, are being attacked to stand for a policy that, in its form, may not take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e396	There will certainly be, even from the parties that will form such a government, a lot of scepticism and criticism of the European Union. I can also say that. But what I didn't get into this chronicle is that you don't have to resort to such rhetoric as I've seen, that the European countries are looking to drain the resources in the north. We must take into account the following: the European countries, the United States and also the countries of the east, in Asia, are keenly interested in these resources. We have to respect that, and then we have to work on that basis in a dialogue, get everyone who needs these resources, to work together, so that we can manage the Barents Sea properly. This oil and gas only makes sense if it's going to some markets, and the big markets are the ones I'm pointing at. Then we have to be in dialogue with them and not assume that they're really trying to rob us of something, as I've heard, among other things. One from the Center Party has spoken up in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e403	First, a few comments on the article by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The first one goes on this with pipework. It's a pretty big activity to build, for example. a new pipeline from the Worm Lange and all the way to the Austhavet. But when we look at the Worm Lange, the field of production comes in 2007. The reason why it pays off, and the reason why the whole field is built out, is that then the production of gas in the British sector goes down. Then fill one up there. So same thing: when you're going to use the capacity of an oil pipeline, it has to be done in accordance with either that other fields go out, or that new ones are being built out. So here we are totally dependent on international cooperation. At least one shall not use it as a cause for forced expansion. But my question goes on with old friends. Of course, we're going to have a good relationship with old friends. But we see, in other contexts, that we are dependent on countries that have also ratified the Kyoto Agreement, and countries that are energy producers. We must not make this an EU matter, but rather extend our alliances to ensure our policy in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e412	I agree that we should not make this an EU matter, but we must recognise that this is one of the major markets for energy resources in the northern regions. Only the fact that the European Union has started a strategic energy dialogue with Russia speaks for it. That's just the way it is! One of the questions they're probably discussing is the direction in which the gas is going. It has to go in some direction. So we have to intervene with all of these actors in a good way, including the United States, of course. At the bottom of all this, there must also be a very well-developed bilateral relationship with Russia, but we cannot escape having a clear Norwegian foreign policy in relation to the other major actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e419	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e422	The Northern Territory Communication from the Government was promising, but needed to be strengthened, and the Progress Party believes that the work of the Foreign Affairs Committee has contributed to this strengthening. We are pleased that we are now leaving this magnification session with a governance paper for the northern regions, and that in itself has immeasurably great value. For Norwegian foreign policy, there are some of the major challenges and opportunities in the Arctic and the Barents region. This has been commented by both the case rapporteur and the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The awareness and priority of the issues in the north is very important for the future, and I fully agree with those who say that this must be a national effort. It must be an overall task for Norway, and in particular for Norwegian foreign service, to promote our interests in the north. We know that we don't always want to find support, but we also know that without constant attention and work, we risk a lot. The diplomatic dimension of the communication is therefore important. What about alliance partners? What about the EU? Who are we going to lean on? The important message must be that we should deal with all relevant actors. We need to seek support and cooperation where that is reasonable and possible. Would we be better equipped in the north with EU membership? I have heard, and believe absolutely, that it is possible to make good arguments for both yes and no to this question. However, the reality is that we are not, and we are probably not going to be a member of the European Union in a good time either. This does not mean that we are not going to discuss what Norwegian EU membership could have meant for the northern regions, but that means that now and for a while in the future we must use all the forces to promote a policy that takes care of the national interests, given the current situation, and not use too much energy to discuss how much better or worse the situation could have been if people had not acted as they did in 1994. In addition to the overall foreign policy, our interests in the north must be safeguarded primarily by activity and presence, and this is a clear point in the attitude. I would like to point out some areas that the Progress Party believes are essential for this. Military presence is important and stressed by many. The Progress Party is concerned whether we will in the future have the resources to be sufficiently present and assert our sovereignty. These are good objectives of the majority of the Committee on Petroleum Activities in the Barents Sea, but we are uncertain whether this positive attitude will survive the harvest's choices. We record that the SV and the Center Party are critical to oil and gas extraction in the Barents Sea, and we are concerned if this view were to be implemented. The progress party wants to go beyond the other parties in signaling that we want to go ahead in the activity of the Barents Sea. We believe it is right to get started, and that this will be the best policy for improved employment, economics and well-being – for Finnmark in particular, but also for the rest of the country. Otherwise, I would like to refer to what the representative, Mr Jagland, said about the pipeline network and the opportunities it offers, by exploiting existing infrastructure. The Progress Party believes that the importance of the northern regions means that we need to strengthen our efforts in many areas. As far as the administration is concerned, we believe that by setting up our own Northern Region Directorate in Finnmark, we will have a permanent body to carry out activities in the north and to carry out the necessary coordination, under the auspices of the Prime Minister's office. This directorate will then have the necessary weight required in the cross-sectoral processes that will have to be carried out. We do not believe that this is essential for getting a good policy on the North. The crucial thing is the policy and the force that politics has, so I don't want to go as far as making the organization a major issue either in one way or another. It is the policy that must be in focus. Russia is important to Norway at many levels. We manage common fishing resources, we share a sea that is expected to be the subject of major petroleum activities, and we can promote each other's interests through constructive and active cooperation. We applaud the renewed vitamin injection that is now taking place in Barents' cooperation. We are pleased that the Barents Secretariat continues to be an engine of cooperation, and the establishment of a barn institute in Kirkenes will give a new dimension to the professional work on north-eastern issues. We are very pleased that the border station in Storskog is now becoming open 24 hours and hope this will further stimulate trade with Russia. The challenges facing Russia are many, including in problematic areas such as the environment, health and trafficking. These areas need to be given a lot of attention. In previous debates, we have called for the possibility of using some of our aid funds to alleviate poverty and distress in North-West Russia, but unfortunately we have to record that this is not supported. However, we hope that in other ways we can contribute to the important work in which many Norwegian non-governmental organisations are involved, in order to improve the conditions of the population of North-West Russia in particular. It brings me to one of the Committee's leaders, Thorbjørn Jagland, who made his point: our absence in relation to the comments on indigenous peoples. Yeah, that's right. What we might be criticizing is that we're not saying constructively what we mean, but just jumping off these remarks. We believe that these are not the major issues and challenges related to the dimension of this communication. This, of course, does not mean that we do not respect minorities and the position of weak groups. In a foreign policy perspective, we have, among other things, in the context of the Development Communication and the Globalisation Communication, I will address this in detail, and I will refer to our views and comments there. We therefore believe that the representative of Mr Jagland here is not holding. He expresses an understanding that the government parties will keep out the Progress Party, with the vision we might have here. The rights of the group in Norway were discussed in this Chamber not long ago in the examination of the Finnish law. We also recorded here that there were not only representatives from the Progress Party who agreed with our view. If you think we're going to be put on the side of Norwegian politics, I think you're going to go a few rounds in different forums in that way. I found this comment strange, and not in accordance with the positions and opinions we have expressed – and the work we have done – in the Foreign Affairs Committee and in other committees on the Stortinget. So to some other dimensions that may not have been so much commented on in the debate so far. The research dimension is very important. I think research also shows presence. I am thinking about research in the polar areas and research on Svalbard. Also, research in Antarctica is important, although it is not part of this Communication. We experienced that Norway is in the process of being overlooked, among other things. by Germany in respect of the number of days of research. It should be noted, and see if it is in line with the presence we want, for example. on Svalbard. The Committee points to the need and need for exchange of training between Norwegian and Russian students. I think getting further speed on it and getting to new, exciting ways to promote exchange between students will be important in future cooperation. Finally, the Committee points out that a further and detailed assessment of the possibility of connecting the Churches to the Russian network in Nikel is required. In the Communication, the Government considers that this is something the industry should do. But I am pleased that the Committee unanimously asks the Government to take a round on this to see if it is not possible to achieve a relationship that can be cost-effective and that can be an important contribution to future and close cooperation between Norway and Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e459	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e462	First just a little comment on this with a separate directorate. I think it has something Soviet over it, and it's going to be a red tape of something that's political, and to a large extent a foreign policy question. We are talking here about how we deal with the heavy players in global policy. And how it's going to be solved by a directorate isn't that easy for me to understand. With regard to the issue of the common people and the indigenous peoples, I just have to say that, by not joining the remarks made by the majority, the Progress Party has sat outside, among other things. the international conventions in existence. This has also been done in the past. I did not say that this is the only reason that the government parties have the attitude they have towards the Progress Party, but this is, what to say, an example of how the Progress Party deals in many respects with minorities and weak groups that have been used to lower votes, whether they have been finnmarks, single mothers or cohabitants. There is something about respect for Norway's international obligations, and that as a society we have obligations vis-à-vis minorities and vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e469	I did not record the question – but our policy for Finnmark, for Norway, and for the people of Norway, is a policy where everyone should be taken care of, and where we do not seek to define a policy of our own, a separate administration for special groups. Of course, if this is good enough, if this is good for all human dignity, then we can discuss it. But it is not in our policy that we have a demeaning attitude to, for example. together, to which this is referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e474	That the Progress Party refuses to take a stand for the rights of indigenous peoples is the problem of the Progress Party, and can only be resolved by the Progress Party itself. With regard to the proposal for a separate Northern Region Directorate under the Prime Minister's office and located in Finnmark, I must say that, like the chairman of the Committee, I am astonished at such a proposal. It's kind of a symbolizing that you see Finnmark as a kind of protectorate, where you have to put a directorate to represent the Prime Minister's office. It could not be a good signal either to Finnmark or to the rest of Norway. And then I have to say that it is amazing when the Progress Party in another matter to be dealt with later today has insisted that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be strengthened, and that Norwegian foreign policy must be brought together and managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but here, in fact, proposes to move the most important challenge area away from the Minister of Foreign Affairs' responsibility. It has to be a minimum of consistency in what a party thinks, if it thinks. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e484	Yeah, we're thinking. The policy for the northern part of the country, for the northern and polar regions, is foreign policy. It's an important dimension, it's maybe the most important dimension we're discussing today. But there are also other dimensions to this relationship – it goes on industry, energy, environment, education, transport, culture, etc. This is why it is important to have a catalyst, a centre, which can address these different issues across departments and ensure that we have an effective policy in mind, for example. Russia. I am not saying that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot handle these questions. We believe that we could have strengthened the policy in a number of these areas that are below the foreign policy dimension of such a directorate, and of course it is not a protectorate, which is mentioned by the representative of Wage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e489	When I was planning lines last night, the easiest line was actually planning it for the Progress Party, because it happens to us in the eye when we see, throughout the whole setting where indigenous peoples are being called, that they are going consistently against each other. They will not be included in the annotations. We've had hearings. We've met the Conseil and the Sameting in Tromsø. We've met Russian indigenous people in Moscow, and they did well to bring out what's special about indigenous people's problems when it's built for oil installations, when it's built for pipelines. We know that they may be the ones who will suffer most from the possible melting of the ice, etc. So after reading the setting, you wonder why the Progress Party does not want indigenous peoples with it. Is it that one at all uses the idea of "ur people"? Is that what they're against? Or is it that indigenous people's interests are raised by the plurality of the committee? Is that what the Progress Party is against?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e494	We are not negative about raising the interests of the people up and down. We are committed to a policy that benefits the population in the areas to which the policy is to apply. Of course we are. At the same time, we see that by referring to and using the rights of indigenous peoples, there has been great intervention in how we organise Norwegian policies, how we organise the big society of Norway. We want everyone who lives in the Kingdom of Norway and is a citizen to have equal rights, regardless of how you view their background. We have great and deep respect for people's peculiarity and cultural value, but we don't want to go as far as what the majority does in defining what we see as special rights, and the references to it. That's why we've signed out of these comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e499	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e502	One of the presumptuously overshadowing unsolved problems in today's international policy is how we're going to deal with the enormous solution of carbon dioxide in the world. The areas we are discussing today, the North, are the areas where the consequences of a lack of climate policy are greatest. The temperature rises faster in the north, but we don't know why he does it. The consequences can be ice-free north. It can also have possibilities in it. It can also be positive in terms of getting a north-east pass. It can even open up to a safer oil and gas business, as we know that icebergs, drift ice, are a problem there. But we should not forget that this is an all-shadowing global problem that we have to solve. We know that these areas are calculated to have up to 25 pst. of the remaining oil and gas resources in the world, and of course it is an important strategic area. But then we can ask the question, is it urgent to get up these resources that are in the north? Is that how we need them? Climate policy is, of course, a quite clearly We don't have to rush to get up the 25 pst. That's right there. The relationship with the Norwegian oil industry, large companies such as Norsk Hydro and Statoil, does not mean that, because they have enough tasks elsewhere. There's no doubt about it. They'll be able to hold on to the base for a long time, and we'll put pressure on them from here that they should develop technology in the North Sea just to take advantage of the last remaining fields they've already been assigned there, there may be great opportunities for technology development. Of course, we're talking about injecting CO2. We're talking about driving the CO2 problem back where it actually belongs. If we got that technology development, we might in the long run be able to defend a forced expansion in the north. But without solving the real problem of international policy, which is the climate problem, we are short. And if we are going to add through this message to a forced expansion in the far north that prevents the technology that the world so badly needs, we think from the SV's point of view that we have led a wrong policy. We know that for the north, there will be an equal number of workplaces to pick up by running a clear and clear deployment of alternative energy. We know that Nordic business has a base of engineering along the whole of the North Norwegian coast. We know that in this industry it works plumbers, welders, metalworkers, engineers, etc. These will get more employment when you put on alternative energies than if a one-sided goes on oil and gas. We know that the possibilities to build up wind power are great. We know that the bioenergy potential is high, with of course a subsequent interest for Norwegian forest owners and forest workers. We know that if one goes further in order to generate power in Kvalsund, which one has already started in Kvalsund, we are up to two dates with what the engineering environment in North Norway needs, a challenge on land, a challenge that will give Northern Norwegian youth the light and incentive to be in the north, if not just oil and gas. We know that the environmental status of the Arctic is characterised by chemical problems that come from a long way. They're air-conditioned, and they're water-borne. It's PCB and other poisons. Before we start large-scale activity, there are serious environmental problems. They're local. They get local rashes. We know that the activity that you're going to start can create even more of that chemical problem. We know there must be strict rules. I am so pleased with what is said in the message that there should be strict rules. I hear what you're saying in the message, but what helps when the activity might be inconspicuous and too big? Once again, we suggest that we not only try to manage local environmental problems, but we should contribute internationally to making the really big problem, i.e. the solution of CO2, just getting worse. If we look at the dialogs that the Government brings up, the North Area dialogs, there's none of these that we from the SV's side have anything against. We see a desire for bilateral agreements with Russia. We see that one also wants to talk to the EU, the United States and other energy importers. What I think is a little weak from the Government's side is that we don't get a recognition that in many cases we have diametrically opposed the interest they have in what is traditionally our allies, because they are usually energy importers. We have interests both in relation to and in common with Russia and other energy exporting countries. Norway has an interest in a high energy price. That it also benefits the environment, we don't think from SV that anything bad is bad. We hear, if not exactly daily, then at least right as it is, some oil minister from an oil producing country saying straight out: yes, we'll try, we'll see what we get. And what's one thing to do? Well, it's easy to increase oil production, and in many of them, of course, it's the goal of getting the price down. Get the energy price down, let go of the big step that it's developing alternative energy. We know that calculations show that the oil and gas resources in the world are probably at the tip of the pitch, because we've spent half of it, and that it's going to go down here, with a corresponding rising price. We also have to take that into account when we're trying to figure out who our allies are. We also have strong commitments to the best allies in this context, which of course are the countries that have ratified the Kyoto Agreement. It will also be in Norway's interest. And then we've always got the right that the Russians are running, that the Russians are going to run on. One would most likely think we came ten years later. I haven't found a milligram of evidence from the Russian contacts we've had, so Russia is going to build up the gas in the Barents Sea in a long, land time. The one who may have said the best was the leader of the state management company in Murmansk, who said quite clearly and clearly that the Shtokman field would not be built in his time. He said the licenses were there, everything was politically cleared, but they weren't going to do it, because they didn't have the technology, and they had enough of other projects onshore before they wanted to go offshore. The major project in Russia is the construction of a 100 billion DKK pipeline to Vladivostok. We know that the Russians are likely to think about China and Japan before they start hard in the Barents Sea, and the Russians may also be concerned about the fishing resources in the Barents Sea. They also have great interests there. We know that the investments are now being made more and more to the east. We don't know what time the Russians might start. I didn't think we had to use as an argument that we had to get started, that we were too late with the Russians. SV definitely acknowledges the technology development we have had, for example. on Worm Lange and Snow White, and that once in the future it can contribute to something, we're not in doubt. But using it as a reason for having to take care of it doesn't seem to us to have any evidence at all when we're going to take care of the enormous climate problems we have. In the setting, there is broad agreement about this with people for people-to-people cooperation. It is a pleasure to see that the Landsorganisation, the Fiskerlage, Nature and Youth and Bellona no have sister organizations in Murmansk, Russia. We see that there is a youth exchange between these different organisations. Maybe it might be so that it's very good to give the big Russian bear ten-thousands, maybe thirty-years, years to find their democracy, to find their civil society solutions, to get volunteer organizations and NGOs up to get a real debate on how many oil equivalents one should take up in Russia. Perhaps it could be the biggest contribution we can make from the Norwegian side, easy to get to democracy development in the best way in Russia. Developments are in progress, and Norway can support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e540	I just want to say a little bit about what Bjørn Jacobsen was into now finally, whether Russia really wants to start up, or when. He said it's an incredibly long perspective here. I think we misunderstand the situation if we do not agree that Russia is in an incredibly favourable position. They have large energy resources across the continent. They have many beekeepers in the east, in Asia, India and China. They have Europe, and they have the United States. They can play on this, play things against each other, and I think the decision can go in many directions. But if it's like that, for example. development in the Barents Sea, on a Russian base, is well ahead of time, there is even greater reason for Norway to have a clear policy. Because that's now that we can influence. Because that's when we're in action. We cannot start with what Russia has decided to do and has begun to expand. I would therefore like to ask Bjørn Jacobsen: You said it is not urgent, but isn't it that SV also believes that we must have a policy towards Russia in the case that they do not share SV's view, but that one should build up in the Barents Sea? Can't we have a policy on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e549	Well, I can say a very clear yes to that. In this option, the committee agrees on the main lines. I think what's in the setting creates a good basis for dialogue. The reason why I have so much stress on carbon dioxide is that it's the big problem that I think we're dealing with too little. But I'm very much in agreement with most of the strategies it's been put up with here. I didn't think we should make this an EU matter, but I think Norway is as broad as possible and in every possible context must try to get alliance partners, make friends, as was said here. But we also have to bear in mind that it's CO2 that's the big problem. We are not allowed to adopt a policy that provides for it, and that will eventually make us sit still with the Russians not building up in the Barents Sea, that they don't build up offshore. We build up there and maybe use up our resources, while the Russians say like that: Well, well, let the North keep on. We should also manage. We are also lit at a quieter pace in the development of the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e559	Will there be offshore expansion in the Russian sector? Let me just briefly remind you of the statement made in the Evening Post this morning, by director Aleksei Miller in Gazprom, that they want to choose partners before Christmas and will place greater emphasis on technology competence than on capital ability. The committee setting is an interesting reading. SV reports from the majority of the Orheim Committee, which concludes that companies in Norway need to be stimulated to engage in the Barents Sea on the basis of high offshore and environmental competence, and that a strategic partnership developed in this area with the Russians should be considered. On the other hand, SV is involved in a minority comment that: ‘As long as Norway is not a member of the EU, we have greater scope for action to promote our national interests and build alliances with other countries in the north.’ Who is that now, if we have said no to Russia and no to the EU countries? Jacobsen himself says from the pulpit that we have diametrically opposite interests of what our allies have in terms of energy. I belong to a party that likes to maintain friendship with the United States, but are those who are Jacobsen's new friends?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e571	Just to establish it first – it's east of Russia's activity is great. That's where we see things happening. There's going to be a built-in lease. We know in the northwest things are more clear. In the past, there have been mentions of where the Russian pipeline might go, whether he is going to go to the Baltic Sea, possibly on the Norwegian coast. When it comes to what's written about Gazprom, there's no doubt that Gazprom also has an interest in getting started. We have nothing against the fact that Hydro, Statoil or other Norwegian companies are engaged. But that shouldn't be what's underneath, which leads to one taking up too many oil equivalents, more than what we really want. When there are alliances, you can interpret the notes in and out, and you can interpret them differently. But there is no doubt that from SV's point of view, we felt that the government should be reasonably free to think untraditionally and go on finding new alliance partners, while building on the old one. I don't think there's much disagreement in the committee on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e580	The representative Jacobsen and SV are very concerned about pollution and the environment. In this regard, I find it strange that he did not bring up a slightly illuminated theme, namely the city of Nikel and who will clean up there. Millions have been granted from Norway and have not been used. The company that contaminates with nickel in the environment has a billion surplus. Isn't it fair for Jacobsen that these are required to clean up? Or isn't the representative Jacobsen concerned with putting pressure on Russia and the company to clean up their own territory? Would he rather send the bill to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e588	The representative Stensaker is quite right in his concerns. Obviously we could sit on that tall horse and say, well, we're like Pontius Pilate, we don't want to do anything. We can show that the company that operates with nickel has huge surpluses. I don't think of numbers, but they're obviously huge. But as a responsible nation, we also have international responsibility, not least to help our neighbours. We can also discuss why we drive and raise nuclear submarines, while Russia supposedly drives and builds new ones. There are many dilemmas here, but as a nation that – what should we call it – may be on its way to becoming an environmental nation, we need to take care that there is a problem right across borders. We have to act, and we have to do it now. We cannot wait for any internal problems in large Russian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e597	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e600	We have witnessed major changes in the north in just a short time. The framework conditions for Norwegian security and foreign policy have changed. The cold war is over, and we no longer have the strong contradictions between East and West. As the report points out, this gives us great opportunities, but also challenging challenges. We cannot take it for granted that Norway has at all times similar interests with key partners. Russia's power and influence is growing in demand for oil and gas, and we must draw attention to our view of the exploitation of natural resources in the north. We need to use the resources available in this area in a way that is sustainable and environmentally friendly. We also need to deal with the climate and environmental changes we see are emerging in the highly vulnerable areas of the Arctic. These are the overall challenges, and this communication is aimed at meeting in a holistic manner. I would like to commend the Government that has promoted this message. It is very positive that the Communication promotes a significant amount of concrete action to strengthen the Norwegian initiative in the northern regions. The Christian People's Party supports these measures. The focus in the north is no longer security policy. Today there is resource policy. Both Norwegian and Russian sides have significantly reduced the standing military forces, and we have developed good military cooperation with Russia. We have historical relations with Russia, and we see that cooperation is now increasing. Our resources depend on the environment. The environment is very vulnerable and environmental problems are global. Therefore, they must be solved through international cooperation. In the Arctic we now see great climate change. The conclusions of the ACIA studies show that we are facing changes that will be dramatic in the physical, ecological, social and economic fields. The findings are so clear that they cannot be ignored. These environmental challenges pose a global safety problem. To solve the challenges, international society needs to act, and we need to act now. The Kyoto Protocol is an important first step in meeting the climate challenges. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government will work towards the creation of an international research fund, in particular dedicated to climate change. Arctic Council is an arena to address these challenges, and it is our prime forum for cooperation on the polar struts on environmental and climate issues. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that Norway will use the Presidency to strengthen the Arctic Council and support the establishment of a permanent secretariat in Tromsø. We believe that the Arctic Council could become an important premiscuous supplier for national and international action. We also have an international platform for polar research at Svalbard. We need more knowledge of the Arctic land and sea areas. The International Energy Agency believes that by 2030 the demand for energy will increase by 60 pst. The northern regions are expected to contain a large proportion of the world's undiscovered petroleum resources. That is why we also see an increasing international interest in the northern regions. In this process, we need to ensure that the economic and environmental interests of Norway are safeguarded. Through the Northern Region Dialogues, we will be able to promote our views and provide a good basis for understanding Norwegian views and priorities. We are already engaged in such a dialogue with the United States and Germany, and are now preparing Canada and France. Dialogue with the United Kingdom and the EU should also be established. It is absolutely central that our partners have good knowledge and understanding of how complex the situation in the north is. If resources are to be used, it is a prerequisite that this is done in a proper manner. The focus must be on the vulnerable ecosystem and on the environmental challenges of all types of activity in this area. Through the management plans, Norway is working to transform this thinking into a practical policy. The management plans shall be submitted to the Stortinget in spring 2006. With a new message on resource use, we will have the opportunity to discuss this in more detail in a year's time. The United States and other nations are significantly represented in the Russian oil extraction through large oil companies operating with relatively free lines. Norway has experience, and we have advanced and environmentally friendly oil technologies that could be valuable for the Russians to exploit the large energy resources in their part of the Barents Sea. The knowledge we have is important both in terms of the exploitation of resources, and in terms of transport out of the Barents Sea. The proximity of North-West Russian oil and gas resources can create new opportunities for North Norway and business. Conditions must be provided to strengthen parts of the value creation of Finnmark. Putting Finnmark and the Barents Sea at the centre of policy action is more than district policy. It's a matter of safeguarding the whole country's interests. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we also emphasise the exploitation of other environmentally friendly forms of energy. We are therefore pleased that a broad majority of the parties believe that this should facilitate increased investment in alternative, renewable energy sources. These include: the basis for wind, wave and tide power in the area. Unlike petroleum, fish are a permanent resource, if we manage it well. In order to manage fish resources well, we need to cooperate closely internationally, not least with Russia. Here we have a common interest. In the fisheries sector, we see strong growth. In North-West Russia, they are well advanced in knowledge and capacity in the maritime sector. Russia is today our second largest export market. It is an important measure to allocate funds to national marine knowledge building. Today, we see a common need for increased control efforts to detect overfishing and illegal fishing. It is a growing problem, and cooperation needs to improve. Marine research sticks must not be confronted with obstacles. It is beyond the knowledge of fish stocks. I believe that stronger foreign policy governance of the national fisheries policy will be an advantage to the international fisheries regime. A question that Norway and Russia have so far failed to agree on is the divider line. The negotiations here have been going on for more than 35 years. If we can solve this disagreement, new, great opportunities for cooperation will be opened up. It is therefore important that these issues be clarified and the contact to resolve this issue must be maintained. We can also improve the development of business cooperation. It has been difficult to obtain concrete results in cooperation in the economic field. It looks more promising now, and the goal is still a common nutrient region in the north. If we are to do this, it must be easier for foreign players to invest in Russia. There is a need for stable framework conditions, both in terms of legislation and administrative decisions. It's a positive economic development in Russia now, and I hope that it will join in and increase business cooperation. It is industry itself that must promote this cooperation. The public can only be a facilitator. In this respect, it is positive that the Norwegian authorities will facilitate the improvement of the transport of goods across the Russian-Norwegian border and provide the Consulate-General in Murmansk with an industrial worker. If this cooperation is to have a future and develop, we need to focus on training young people. That's a prerequisite. Then we also need to improve student exchange and increase the build-up of skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e634	Before the President gives the floor to the next speaker, the President wonders whether Morten Höglund will say a few words.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e637	For the sake of order, I would like to address the four proposals we have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e642	Then the representative Morten Höglund mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e645	The Central Party welcomes the fact that the majority of the Committee considers it necessary to adopt a more vigorous and coordinated policy towards the north. The proposals in the Government Communication are not dimensioned by the challenges we face. Norway manages a Mediterranean sea area with major environmental challenges and significant natural resources. There is a need for a clear political strategy with an organisational apparatus that supports this, and a continuous capacity for innovation if we are to make full use of our opportunities. Greater focus and closer national coordination are needed. Norway should also take the initiative to create a powerful multi-national north-eastern policy arena — in addition, maritimely, for the further development of bilateral agreements and cooperation. The Central Party has launched two responses to this, a North-East Minister and a North-Atlantic Resource Organisation. With regard to our proposal for a separate Northern Region Minister, we should definitely not deprive the U.D. of responsibility for Northern Region policy, as the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee suggested earlier today. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall be responsible for following up the areas in which the U.D. is traditionally competent, including in relation to the North Sea policy. However, with all possible respect for the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, environmental policy, defence policy, municipal and regional policy and oil and energy policy are now more competent in the management system than in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's precisely why we need a Northern Region Minister, who is to ensure coordination between all these different areas, so that we can get what I think we all have ambitions for, the whole of the North Region policy. Let me remind you in this regard of the time when Jens Evensen was Minister of the Law of the Sea in the 1970s. The experience with a government council of its own was very good. The ability to ensure both attention and permeability in the field of marine law. Since Northern Region policy covers most of the spectrum of political issues, in our opinion this Northern Region Minister should be associated with the Prime Minister's office. It should be a temporary post of the Council of State, as was also the post of Minister for the Law of the Sea. When the whole policy is in place, the Northern Region Minister has done his job. The Director of the Norwegian Institute for Foreign Affairs and the Head of the International Labour Party's Committee, Sverre Lodgaard, has pointed to the need for an institutional refurbishment responsible for the northern areas of the government apparatus. This, in our opinion, is an important consideration, without which I will take the Director of the NUPI as income for our vision. It's just the point that we need institutional changes, institutional innovations that are interesting. We would have liked to see that the other parties had helped to come up with a good solution, which provides us with a sufficiently solid foundation to get exactly what we all want, the whole policy. Now there will be ‘business as usual’ in terms of day-to-day responsibility for Northern Region policy. A State Secretary has limited opportunities and cannot lift a policy area in a government in the same way that a self-government council could. The central party also believes that Norway should take the initiative of a North Atlantic resource organisation, because we need alliance construction to establish clearer driving rules for the northern regions. It is necessary to develop common environmental requirements and standards and a common understanding of the international treaties in the North Atlantic Sea area. A Norwegian initiative to establish a new international cooperation organisation in the north, which we will then shorten to NARO, will create a suitable forum to address these challenges. Norway should therefore take initiatives vis-à-vis the United States, Russia, Canada, the United Kingdom, Denmark and Iceland in order to create a new dynamism in the North Region policy. I am surprised that the Foreign Affairs Committee, which, on the one hand, believes that Norway has few multilateral frameworks to deal with the North Sea issues within, on the other hand, will not contribute to creating such a framework. Here we are playing an opportunity to design a clearer Norwegian north-eastern policy, we mean. Norway has a significant responsibility for ensuring stability and security in its own region. The consolidation and continuation of the international treaties and efficient resource management are important tasks with major economic and foreign policy implications. The value of sea areas means that we cannot ignore the fact that we can be subjected to political pressure. A resource conflict may increase the pressure on our rights. We must therefore maintain a credible defence as a signal to the outside world about where our interests and priorities lie and as a guarantee that we take our obligations seriously. We need a defence and security policy where the presence in the northern regions is given priority over today, in terms of both air, land and maritime military presence. This must be combined with consistent enforcement of Norwegian non-discrimination-based jurisdiction. This is not about, as the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee suggests, shooting away from the issues. It is still an important task to control resources in the northern seas. The fact that several states disagree with our view of the division of sea areas makes the task more demanding. The basis for Norwegian jurisdiction in Svalbard's economic zone is disputed. Russia has challenged Norway’s jurisdiction by sending a marine vessel into the protection zone. Iceland has threatened to bring the issue of Norway's rights in the Svalbard zone before the Court of Justice in The Hague. In addition, unresolved issues related to the Gray Zone and the borders with Russia. We are pleased to share with the other parties that sufficient resources need to be allocated to the Coast Guard to combat environmental crime, and hope that this will be followed up at the next budgetary procedure. The Barents Sea has to be stopped. A key prerequisite for good cooperation between Norway and Russia is vital industrial activity and infrastructure on the Norwegian side. Fisheries and aquaculture are at the heart of the economic development of the region. There is a close link between fishing and aquaculture industries and industrial development in general along the coast and between fishing industries and settlement. The liberalisation of the fisheries policy implemented by Regeringen is extremely problematic in relation to settlement along the coast. This liberalisation is moving towards the centralisation of rights affecting the labour market in many fisheries-dependent small communities, particularly in Finland. It has also been demonstrated that the fish raw material is largely located outside these sites due to extensive violations of universal service obligations. There are great opportunities for a positive economic development in this area in the country. In the past, we have promoted a number of concrete and good proposals, including: in Document No: 8:30 for 2004-2005 to trigger recruitment to the fishing industry, to increase the profitability of the fishing fleet and to create an innovative and more profitable fishing industry in the north, including proposals for better access to risk capital. If North Norway is to be able to exploit the new nutritional potential in the Barents Sea and in trade with Russia, substantial infrastructure investments must be made. We ask in the setting Regeninga regionalize the investment fund for North West Russia to North Norway. We believe that the fund could be an important contribution to industrial development in the north, if the proposal had received the majority's agreement. The centre party considers that petroleum activity in the Barents Sea can only take place once oil companies have developed an absolute zero emission technology at sea and when a comprehensive management policy is in place to safeguard fisheries and environmental interests. The most vulnerable areas must be secured as petroleum-free zones. An increase in petroleum activity in the Barents Sea must take place within the commitments of Norway in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. So we have, as you understand, a balanced relationship with the development of the energy resources in the Barents Sea. Finally, following the significant cuts made by the Government earlier in the period, it is now positive that people for the people-to-people cooperation through the Barents Secretariat have been proposed to be strengthened. The centre party supports the proposal for a bar institute in Kirkenes. It should also be assessed whether a dedicated research fund linked to North-West Russia should be added to the Barents Secretariat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e687	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e690	It is no coincidence that the Central Party is all alone in commenting on its own Northern Region Minister. It's not a suggestion. That's a note from the Center Party. The main reason for this is that the analogy with the maritime law minister portfolio in its time is strikingly stagnant. This was a highly specialised task which required a highly specialised professional competence to be met. The idea, if I have understood correctly, behind the Northern Territory Minister is at the very opposite end of the scale. There can be no reasonable idea, while an overall committee says that this is the most important part of Norwegian foreign policy in the future, to propose that it should be ‘outsources’ in one or the other phase. I will come back later to another question. But in the first place, I would like to hear the reason that a separate Northern Region Minister will be able to strengthen Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e699	It is a general wish in this room that we should be able to put in place a more comprehensive North-South policy that is better coordinated. Interestingly, the Government announced in its communication to the Stortinget that this has not been taken far, because it underlines the need for a comprehensive North-South policy to be put in place in the future. The simple question is, how do we best get there that we can achieve the goal that actually this whole hall has? The experience we have with the message from the Government suggests that the system we have today is not good enough, because the government has not done well, with the way you are now organized, to put this whole North Region policy into place. That's our simple starting point. When there's something we obviously can't do, we should look at ways to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e706	Since it is only the Progress Party and the Center Party that each of them has some belief that the answer to the need for a comprehensive policy is to split up organisational and create new units that are not integrated into Norwegian foreign policy, I will drop it. There's obviously no one other than the two parties themselves who believes in their respective solutions. There is another point in the position where the Central Party acts together with the Socialist Left and the Advance Party, where we outline the major challenges we face, that in a given situation, all major interests – the United States, Russia and the EU – can collide with Norwegian interests. The response from the three parties is a Norwegian military upgrade to ensure a national military capacity to meet this challenge. I assume that the five frigates we already have in order are just a modest beginning. How does the Central Party view such national upgrading?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e714	When the representative wants to show all his perversion, it is significant. We see that in a lot of ways, so in this context as well. It is very alarming that it is possible to read this note so that we will have a great national upgrade. Then you're on a different planet than what the rest of us in this room actually are. What the centre party is concerned about is that Norway should have a solid level of sovereignty in the north, precisely because we should not be subjected to pressure. It is interesting to note – and it should be remembered – that the Committee is concerned that the Coast Guard should have sufficient resources for precisely lifting sovereignty, which is marked by sovereignty, but where it will also fulfil the function of ensuring better resource control.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e721	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e724	The left believes that the north is of global strategic importance, and that a strong Norwegian political outlook towards the north is more important than before. The large oil and gas resources in the north, the rich fishing grounds and other natural resources make the world's major powers increasingly focused on the north. In a world situation where Russia is characterised by a lack of hard currency supply and the US has a strong need for increased oil and gas supply, the north has once again become an important piece in the international power game. It is therefore of strategic importance that Norway strengthens its focus towards the north. The left believes it's important that Norway leads with a strong environmental focus in the management of these areas. The government has opened up a cautious and gentle extraction of oil in the north, but the Left will be the guarantor of strict standards and we want petroleum-free zones. We know that the Barents Sea is an ecologically vulnerable area, and we see that the Barents Sea has special significance as a spawning and breeding area for some of the world's strongest fish populations. For the Left, this is important when we are chiseling out our Northern Region policy. Left wants to participate in development. We want a hand on the steering wheel, even if this makes our environmental armor not as shiny. In the left we believe that by participating in and shaping the development in the north we can get a result that benefits the environment. For us, this is more important than standing on the sideline and proclaiming our environmental position. The left hand-hand side can help design standards for how the north works, which gives a better environmental solution than if we let the Progress Party and the Labour Party alone shape politics in the north. We also see that it is better with Norwegian presence in the north than with President Putin and President Bush alone to develop standards for the business. The left will strengthen our civil and military presence in the north. For the Left, the Northern Region policy is concerned with seeing different sectors in a context. Through an active policy to secure the regions, through a modern industrial policy, strong environmental policy focus and through a foreign policy that increases the focus on the Nordic region, we contribute to this. The left-wing vision for the north is that we are developing a competence-based policy for the north. Increased research efforts on ecology, technology and the north are an important contribution. Left wants the University of Tromsø and other Nordic research institutions to be given a boost when it comes to competence in these areas. The left wants to strengthen Norwegian competence in the environment and the north by strengthening the expertise of the Polar Environment Institute and other key Nordic competence environments. We are pleased that the Government proposes that more resources be put in place to strengthen the marine knowledge building. If we are to develop a strong and good north-eastern policy, a further strengthening of North-North relations will be of great importance. Increasing trade between Norway and Russia, several joint nutrition projects, increasing cultural cooperation, strengthening the Barents Secretariat and increasing investment in the Barents region are important measures. The removal of barriers to trade and a stronger focus on trade policy towards the east is another measure. The left believes that increasing trade between countries contributes both to ensuring stability and to reducing social differences. In the north, there's a strong need for this. The formulation of the Northern Region policy is not just a bilateral relationship between Russia and Norway, but rather a question that is only addressed by the Barents Cooperation countries. It is therefore right for the Government to raise important north-eastern issues to a higher level, so that the US and Canada are also more active in international cooperation. The left wants to join and take responsibility for achieving a holistic and offensive north-eastern policy, a policy in which we take the environmental challenges seriously. We are pleased with the basis of the Northern Region Communication of the Cooperative Government. If this government continues, the Left will be the guarantor of an offensive development of environmental premise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e750	For the Foreign Affairs Committee, the last major issue of the year was a clear shift in focus. While the Committee's work has largely turned west and south, this time we have focused on Norway's very significant interests in the north and east. In concrete terms, we have visited Tromsø, Svalbard, Moscow and Murmansk and received many good recordings. The reason we got the message is the increased interest associated with the new economic opportunities of the large oil and gas reserves on both the Norwegian and Russian sides. Oil and gas in the north can create new opportunities for Norway — and in particular new and positive developments in the northern part of the country. This, in turn, will strengthen Norwegian sovereignty in the very rich but vulnerable sea areas. The Committee is strongly committed to ensuring fishing resources, combating overfishing and preventing any negative environmental impact of gas and oil activities and transport. It is important to preserve the rich, biodiversity and continue to secure some of the last untouched areas in the world, such as large areas of Svalbard and marine areas around it. The answer is increased environmental research at a high international level, good governance and increased cooperation with Russia. Exercising sovereignty in environmental and resource management is a core point and a necessary prerequisite. The Workers' Party has long traditions of promoting employment and housing in the north. It should just be lacking, with the rich resources and strategic interests we have in North Norway and in Svalbard. The Labour Party is also committed to promoting trade and helping to open doors to Norwegian business in Russia. This applies to oil and gas, the supplier industry and other industries. Nuclear safety cooperation has an impact on both health, safety and the environment in our neighbourhood, and it is important to prevent radioactive and fissile materials from being diverted and used for terrorist purposes. The Russian competence achieved by this cooperation can be exploited as a platform for several fields of cooperation. The cultural differences between Norway and Russia are there. We have many common interests, but also different, competing interests and open questions. The answer is not military escalation, which some parties seem to suggest. The cold war is fortunately over, and the answer is to find in political and economic cooperation. This is the European answer. As a member of the EU, Norway would undoubtedly have had a heavy political alliance on contentious and unresolved issues in the north. As abroad, alliance construction is more demanding, but even more important. The fall of the Iron Curtain created a completely new situation. In the historical context, former Foreign Minister Thorvald Stoltenberg’s initiative on Barents’ cooperation appears to be very far-sighted. This cooperation is a very important resource for the further development of economic, ecological and cultural cooperation and exchanges. Strengthening project cooperation in the areas of health, child protection, equality and democratic development is an important objective. It is positive that non-governmental organisations can help dampen the welfare gap between Norway and Russia and build good social structures. The people of our northernmost counties see the possibilities in our northern regions. Then, in the context of high environmental standards and ecological considerations, enlargement and government must provide the people of the north with opportunities for growth and development. We have now seen for a number of years that it is possible in the North Sea to interact successfully with fisheries, oil and gas activities and important environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e773	I think I can see after reading the position and hearing the debate so far that there is really a broad consensus on the Northern Region policy that Norway is going to pursue. I am pleased because it is a considerable strength in the years that are now ahead of us. The announcement we have received from the Government towards the Storting, based on a thorough investigation, led by the Director of the Polar Institute, Orheim, and on a thorough public debate that followed in time. I think it has been valuable that we gave ourselves time for this debate, so that we have a full overview of the issues that the communication had to address. I think that the consensus on which the vote is based is an expression that such a debate has been useful. But it's also good that we can now sum up before this expansion period is over. The message was well received in the north when it was presented earlier this semester. It was, as you remember, not as well received in the south, at least in parts of the political environment. I think maybe someone got hurt to read the number of pages and interpret the message from it. This time we've written the message something different than before, because we've had thorough investigations before, and there was no need to repeat the factual evidence and many of the discussions. It was possible to go straight to the political conclusions. It is also interesting that with regard to the political conclusions, i.e. the content of the policy, it should be expected that the criticism presented in the presentation here in the south was followed up with a policy different from that of the Government. But we can see that this has not happened, as far as neither the Central Party nor the SV. In the case of SV, it's actually like you want to do less than the government. We see a disagreement about oil and gas, and that's interesting. Once again, we see that Norwegian foreign policy is created in the intersection of the Right Centre and the Labour Party, and that gives a breadth of the conclusion we reach. What in many ways is the heading of the policy to be pursued are opportunities. We're used to the north areas being marked by confrontation, as it was in the time of the cold war. Now it is the possibilities that stand in the center, and I fully agree with the Gunhild eye when she praises, among other things. former Minister of Foreign Affairs Stoltenberg for Barents Cooperation initiative. Yes, it's nothing new that we see opportunities, but we see them increasingly. The work that was done on Barents' cooperation a decade ago was an enormously valuable basis on which it is now being built, and on which there is every reason to focus and try to expand, as we do. But there is no reason to hide that if further oil and gas development were to take place in the north, it would really mean that not only one, but many magazines are being explored about the possibilities in the northern regions. If, as many experts say, a quarter of the world's undiscovered petroleum resources are located in the northern regions, it is clear that this will provide a completely different opportunity and a completely different everyday life in the future. There is no doubt that Norway is well positioned; we have, among other things, two highly successful oil companies, which have expressed their interest in participating in the Shtokman field. If they are to be awarded by the Russian authorities, it will mean a huge amount, and it is just an emphasis on the possibilities that are now available. I have noticed the debate that has gone on about the need to build alliances and keep friendships, and I think that is a very important understanding. This is not something Norway can handle alone, and it is important for us to gain an understanding of Norwegian views outside. That is why I believe that the dialogues that we are, on the one hand, alerting and, on the other hand, are already in the process of being implemented are of great importance. The northern regions played a major role in the meeting we had in the EEA Council in Luxembourg yesterday and in the bilateral talks that took place in Washington last week. That's the way it has to be in future conversations. Then there are some points made, not out of the content of the policy, but out of how we are going to organize ourselves, linked to a proposal for a minister and a proposal for a directorate. As for the Minister, I just want to say that I feel quite sure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government will be able to take the necessary coordination responsibility. That's the way it is today, and it's just brought out this message, which now, as far as content is concerned, is a broad consensus in the Storting, and I think that's a good way to keep going. I have noticed that the Central Party wants it to be a minister. There's no connection to that. I'm not going to say so much more about it, except to express some surprise that it's going to be a temporary minister, because there's something that won't be temporary, that's the challenges in the northern regions. I think we have to assume that we are still going to meet new challenges in the north, and then we have to have a device to meet them. That they should be met by a temporary minister, I must express some amazement, but that is not a big point. Let me also express some amazement at the proposal of the Progress Party for a directorate, because if the point is more political governance and more coordination in terms of the heavy political decisions, it must be said that it is a peculiarity that the new grip should be to create a directorate. And when it comes to it from a party that once in a while has given attention to talking against bureaucracy and making sure that bureaucracy is kept down, it's even more astonishing. Now I'm not going to blame the representative Höglund too much of the idea – I saw it in one of the Finnmark papers when we presented the Nordgebietnmelden in Tromsø. It was the party leader who was on tour in Finnmark, so it was probably one of the fly ideas, but it was of the more peculiar flying ideas, and we realize that Höglund might not have had such a good opportunity to sort it out, the source taken into account. So a few words about business cooperation. Very much has gone well in the northern areas in recent years. There's no doubt about it. Cultural cooperation, people-to-people cooperation, health, whatever it should be, it's going well. The area where it must be said that there is a clear potential is the business area, but also here it is much better than it did before, and I meet Norwegian business representatives who are optimistic about the opportunities for the north, and not just about oil and gas. What we need to stress on the Norwegian side is that it will still be essential for the Russian system to evolve, so that it is open, predictable, that it is transparent. It is clear that the business community will require when putting its efforts and resources into such an area. This is something that has been avoided in many ways, but it is important to be clear that predictability and transparency are crucial for further development. But then we also have to be aware from the Norwegian side that precisely because it is not fully in place, it is important for us to be present and help the business community in the area. That's why we're also putting on the table a number of proposals that may not be of the greatest importance, but are very important in practical terms, and therefore I'm glad that they too have been approved. It must be important to us that we are also prepared in political discussions to address more detailed questions, such as specific visa applications, etc., as we have so far been willing to do. I think we have to assume that it will also require capacity for us in the future. But to conclude, I believe what will remain of this debate is precisely the broad consensus on the content of the policy, and it will give strength and weight to what will become a more important and important policy area in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e805	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e808	The Orheim Committee proposed that a bilateral Barn Sea Agreement be negotiated between Norway and Russia. In this way, the sample was put on the agenda for an important issue, namely whether it is possible to arrive at common driving rules and the standard of activity in the Barents Sea. The government didn't follow it up, and there might be understandable reasons for that. I think it's hard to get Russia to commit to a international agreement on this. But the Committee on Foreign Affairs has followed it in another way, by referring to the agreements we already have in sub-areas, in order to see whether a larger framework could be developed, a comprehensive framework, for how to operate in the Barents Sea, and, of course, also involve more actors in this. I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on that question and how to look at the possibility of getting it done, because it is actually one of the most important questions when you look at how to get an interaction in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e815	What is crucial here is the content of what will become the future policy. Choosing an agreement is in many ways a means of achieving something material. And I agree with Thorbjørn Jagland that there is a need to achieve some substance, not least on environmental issues and standards, and to ensure that the activity that is taking place in the areas is so that we can be safe on it in the future. I don't think the way to go is to start at the end of the Orheim committee. But the very point, namely that what is content must be achieved, then in conversations with Russia and other actors, we agree, and we must follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e822	I note that the Foreign Minister disagrees with the Advancement Party in relation to the Directorate, and I think we can live well with that. But the way the Foreign Minister chooses to embroider this, I don't know if this debate is really worth it, and there's probably things that shouldn't have been said. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that the point of intersection of foreign policy in this matter is, as so often before, at the Right Centre and the Labour Party, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is thus making a point of dissociating himself from the Progress Party. Our dissertation on the issue of indigenous peoples has been up. Is it in other areas of foreign policy that the Foreign Minister feels that the Progress Party has sidelined and where there is a need to warn against the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e829	There has not been a point for me to warn against the Progress Party at all, at least not in this context. My reference to the point of intersection is not just about the northern issues, but how Norwegian foreign policy is often designed. Then you'll often find the intersection that I'm now referring to. This is another example of this. That in this matter we have the Advance Party on board very much of the substance – yes, not only the Advance Party, but some others too – I would like to stress. But that wasn't my point. My point was really of a more general nature. I can, of course, also draw Höglund's attention to the fact that it is not in relation to the Progress Party that this issue is most relevant. It is extremely interesting in relation to two other parties in Stortinget, and how a red-green alternative is now going to come out of creating foreign policy, if they were to have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e835	The most eye-catching thing about the Minister of Foreign Affairs' posts is — again — his disrespectful mention of political opponents in the United Kingdom. It's definitely not the state-man's art in the high-seat. But to the point: the military presence in North Norway is still being reduced, to the concern of many. The Party welcomes the Committee's emphasis on the need for adequate resources for the Coast Guard. Our assessment is that it does not have a Coast Guard at all today, whether it is important both in terms of sovereignty and resource control. The Central Party believes that the Coast Guard must have so much capacity that it can get to where it is needed at any time, in five hours. In particular, in the light of the inge pay line to me earlier today, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What are the ambitions of the Government for Coast Guard activity? And how will it follow up the Greatness's observation of the need for sufficient resources for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e844	Of course, Åslaug Haga’s first comment cannot stand. I record that she did not justify it, and that is perhaps what should then be left after that, and I do not think she is able to justify that claim either. What I said about Minister, I do not think in any way can be described as disrespectful. If she doesn't tolerate that comment once, namely, an observation that temporaryity is a problem in relation to a long-term problem, I think she might be a little too hairy, to say it a little cautiously. As far as the Coast Guard is concerned, I would like to refer to the statements made by the Minister of Defence, both in the written material and in the debates that have taken place. Defence appropriations under the current government are high [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e851	The President will remind you that speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e854	First, a comment on foreign policy. I think this debate has shown that there are really few red-green problems when it comes to foreign policy. What we're a little confused about is going on in the environment. As is well known to SV and former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, we should be very careful when it comes to the number of oil equivalents to be emitted. But then a little bit to what happens in the fish protection zone, Svalbardsona. This is a day-to-day policy. June 6th this year we open for the fishing of herring there. The Icelandics have some demands, this is a day-to-day policy that needs to be resolved, and we know that the Russians are constantly challenging our jurisdiction to test what we think, and how hard we mean it. But then we also know that the Russians have a search ship up there. Suppose they find a pair of Shtokmans in the fish protection zone. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs have any strategies if one really would do the big oil find in Svalbardsona? So what do we do?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e861	What is crucial is that we have clear views on what the formal questions consist of. As regards the fishing protection zone, the disagreement has concerned the nature of the jurisdiction of Norway, the relationship with the Svalbard Treaty; many believe that Svalbard has its own base. But if you were to implement that view, Norway would also have competence under the Treaty, and that means that we will not be in any empty space here. It makes us aware that we have a regulatory framework and a view on how this will be managed, which will be satisfactory in relation to the situation we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e866	I asked a question to the Foreign Minister about the Coast Guard, and I would like to come back to it. My question was quite specific on what ambitions the Government has for Coast Guards, among other things. in relation to our proposal that the Coast Guard should actually come to a place where it is needed, within five hours. The Coast Guard had a budget of 728 million. available in the proposal of the Government. And then they added it to 10 million. kr during the treatment in Stortinget. What I am asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that this is a satisfactory level of Coast Guard, or whether he has higher ambitions in relation to how the Coast Guard can act, both in terms of sovereignty and in terms of resource control. That was my simple question, and I hope it is possible to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e871	I noticed that we were not able to follow up the previous line's first point. I am pleased with that. As far as the second point is concerned, we do not discuss the Coast Guard in our communication, and that means that the statements made on this by the Minister of Defence, and the debates that have been, of course, also stand in this matter, and are the answer given. We have a good defense, we have a good coastguard, and I dare say that we have a level that is sufficient to the task you're facing. That in all areas, of course, one would like to have more – not only defence, but also defence in my areas of administration – is not unknown, but that here we have a level that is satisfactory, I think we can see very clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e878	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e881	After the cold end of the war, Norway faces new opportunities, but also new challenges, in the north. The possibilities are mainly created by the absence of tensions from the Cold War. Today, the region is characterised by increased confidence and trade between countries. The possibilities relate primarily to the large resources available in the area: oil and gas, but also to fish and other marine resources. In this way, the northern regions are of particular importance, not just for North Norway, but for Norway as a whole. At the same time, these resources also generate increased interest from several other countries. In this vulnerable area, securing the rich marine resources is an important task, and increased activity in the area must therefore take place in an environmentally sustainable way. The climate report, presented to the Arctic Council last November, gave us new knowledge of how global warming will bring dramatic changes to the Arctic. These are changes that Norway too needs to take seriously and prepare for. We must be at the forefront of research, among other things. how marine biodiversity is affected by climate change. I am therefore pleased that in the Committee there is an agreement to build a research fund within the Arctic Council, which should give priority to research in these fields. Another main challenge is the unexplained demarcation issues, where Norwegian positions are partly disputed and partly lack active support. Norway claims sovereignty over a very large territorial sea, while this sovereignty is controversial, and many countries have no clear position on the Norwegian position. Governance and environmental and resource management are and must be at the heart of the Norwegian Northern Region policy. We must therefore place greater emphasis on political and economic instruments. There are high expectations of what further developments in the petroleum sector can contribute in the north. It calls for Norwegian presence and presence, and it calls for more bilateral cooperation with Russia. Just the major environmental challenges should be an independent justification that Norway has to be present, we have to be in front, use our financial resources and our main competencies to ensure petroleum activity within an environmentally sound framework. Of course, not all challenges in the north can be solved by Norwegian-Russian cooperation alone. Nevertheless, cooperation with Russia is particularly important. Norway needs to pursue a more comprehensive policy vis-à-vis Russia, as the Committee also calls for unanimously. Cooperation with North-West Russia shall be part of more extensive Norwegian-Russian cooperation. Regional cross-border cooperation is an important part of a comprehensive policy for the north. Barent cooperation and cooperation around the Arctic Council have become increasingly important. The Barents Secretariat has gained considerable competence over the years since it was established in 1993, and cooperation has become a driving force in the region. Arctic Council is the only regional cooperation body in which all eight Arctic countries are members, including the United States and Canada. This is also the cooperation body – the only one – in which the indigenous peoples of the north are promoted by representatives of governments. It is important that during the forthcoming Presidency period of Norway in the Arctic Council, the Norwegian Government takes the initiative to strengthen Circumpolar Cooperation. Good communities and economic progress in North Norway are a national issue, and it is part of a comprehensive north-eastern policy. It also includes industrial and district development policies in the north. I am pleased that the Stortinget today so clearly stresses that this is crucial in a long-term strategy to safeguard our interests in the northern regions. There is a need for robust policies to create business and therefore also safe housing, including: in a long-term sovereignty marking. Of course, increased petroleum activity outside North Norway must also involve the necessary infrastructure in the region. For its part, the working party will return to this point when the petroleum activity is particularly on the agenda, including the assessment of a department of the Northern Oil Directorate. I have noticed during this debate that some representatives have raised questions about the real interest of the Russians in going north. Yesterday, I attended the Economic Forum in St. Petersburg, where the focus was just on the north, and all the representatives who were there in charge of activity in the north had one focus, and there were oil and gas and transport lines. Finally, as the Committee does, I would like to stress the importance of a credible marking of Norwegian sovereignty in the north. It also requires military presence, including a strong coastguard.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e907	"It wouldn't be unreasonable if all the Northmen, out of gratitude, had a bust of Jens Evensen in their homes." It was journalist Stein Snee in Avisa Nordland who picked up this quote from Jan Kjærstad's book "The Führer", when he was going to talk about the northern regions. The Labour Party's Einar Förde said this in the memory of Jens Evensen: "I must admit that the individual can also create history." Jens Evensen was a bauta in Norwegian political history. Norway is looking for a similar form, as it may be necessary in a situation where it appears that the majority of the Grand Duchy and the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have for years forgotten that the northern regions are one of the most important foundations for the modern development of Norway. The Labour Party has almost obscured the enormous work Jens Evensen has done. It is appropriate to ask the question of the defence of Arne Treholt gave the party the wrong focus for decades. No one in the fishing industry today is in doubt that Arne Treholt’s work for the Soviet Union was a strong contributory reason why we today have the grey zone in the Barents Sea. Then you can always discuss details. But lack of agreement in the grey zone has cost Norwegian fishing industry billions of dollars. Only that fact should have led to a strong focus on the importance of being present in the northern regions, being in place with coastguard ships, being in place with the Marine, having a continuous and strong focus on what is happening in the northern regions. But it doesn't happen. The northern regions are too many – and I will allow myself to say too many, including politicians – a word without content. But the northern regions represent central resources, and the counterparty is Russia. It is an area of cross-sectoral interest. There are huge fish resources there, and marine mammals like sell and torment. Yes, it's one of the world's largest food barrels. There are also huge gas and oil resources there. We're talking about one of the cleanest and most valuable marine areas in the world. It also requires a focus on the environment and an appliance to take care of resource management and environmental interests. We are at the centre of global policy precisely because we have renewable natural resources in quantities. Jens Evensen was such an international lawyer and politician that he was able to link the Norwegian interests to Norway, and he used international organisations and legal opinions. Today, there is not enough political interest in resolving the Northern Region problem, with Norway outside the EU. I fear that this debate will also hear that Norway must become a member of the European Union in order to meet the sovereignty requirements we have in the northern regions. It is, in my view, a strong derailment of the debate. Jens Evensen was a strong opponent of the EU, and he became an increasingly strong opponent of his age. Of course, it does not fit into the Workers' Party's image and how Stoltenberg and Jagland want to conduct Norwegian foreign policy. But then they have also gone wild in the EU fog, as opposed to Evensen, who really understood the concept of national sovereignty. The northern regions are bewildered by conflicts of sovereignty. The view of the Svalbard Treaty is such a conflict. Will Norway have sovereignty beyond 12 nautical miles around the island, or will Norway claim all rights in the economic zone around Svalbard and add the continental shelf from Norway past the Spitsberg to the Norwegian continental shelf? Here Norway encounters strong resistance from Russia and Iceland. It is not possible to exclude that this is a demanding policy – yes, so demanding that skilled and sharp politicians are needed to understand and stand up for the Norwegian interests. Unfortunately, today's political leadership does not seem to have the intellectual power or the will to fight for Norwegian interests in the northern regions. It's a reality we have to take inwards, before we take up today what's some of the smaller, but more precarious problems in the northern regions. To date, Norway has not prioritised underwater studies or geological surveys and surveying of the northern regions. It's left to American multinationals. The oil companies that have drilled at the bottom of the sea have accurate maps. We have to go to the oil companies to get maps of the sea areas, we can't go to the Norwegian authorities. It's a shame. It shows how this government and the majority of population assess such sensitive information. Oil and gas activities in the Norwegian zone should benefit North Norway through the landing and construction of local industry. Oil preparedness needs to be strengthened, and oil cargoes should go far at sea and not along the Norwegian coast. Local fishing resources in the Norwegian zone should be subject to a landing obligation in the north. There should be a strong presence on Svalbard through mining activities and research institutions. We should have strong military presence to assert sovereignty over our economic zone. Yes, we must show the flag to assert sovereignty. Norway should take the initiative to extend the economic coastal zone to 300 nautical miles, so that we get the seal of the Smutthavet and the Smutthole. National government is also important in the context of Finnmark. I'm going to get into the other western Nordic countries a little bit. In cooperation with Greenland, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, Norway can contribute to the control of the vast natural resources of the Norwegian Sea by the Western Nordic countries. Cultural cooperation in the Western Nordic countries should be strengthened. The size should apply for membership of the Western Norse Council. I'm going to get into the relationship with Russia, and I could have talked about it for a long time. Norway and Russia have a common interest in obtaining a sound extraction of the oil and gas resources in the Barents Sea. Norwegian industry should also be involved in the Russian oil and gas industry. Norway should continue to contribute to nuclear safety in Russia. Norway should not allow extensive immigration from Russia, as having a large Russian population in Northern Norway would pose a potential safety problem. Trade with Russia can develop considerably and a better rail link should be established. So I'm going to get into the relationship with the United States. Norway has a strategic interest in strengthening NATO and cooperation with NATO’s leading country, the United States. It is NATO and not the EU that guarantees our security. Norway has an interest in obtaining provisions for its commodities to markets other than the EU. The EU will not contribute to paying its oil and gas system to the EU. That is why Russia is betting on the United States. Similarly, Norway should export both oil, gas and fish. So I'm going to get into the relationship with the EU a little bit. The EU is not bordering on the northern sea areas. Therefore, the EU should not play a central role in these areas. Norway should participate in and strengthen cooperation arrangements for the non-EU northern regions. So a little bit about the situation today. The coastguard is at berth while Russian trawlers operate predatory fishing in the Barents Sea and transport the fish to the EU. It shows how serious this government is taking even the smallest challenges in the northern regions. When it is revealed, Norwegian journalists reveal the enormous extent of this predatory fishing. Well, that has now been said from this pulpit as well. This means that much fishing control has been left in the northern regions to Norwegian and foreign journalists. The coastal party has repeatedly pointed out the enormous predatory fishing that is taking place in the northern regions, and we have repeatedly pointed out that the coastal guard ships are at berth in Norway while this predatory fishing is under way. Time and again, the coastal party has pointed out that there is a fading little interest in today’s government to take a real initiative and put the northern regions in proper focus. If it hadn't been for it not to be polite to say that, I would say that the government either lets it scour and go into the northern regions, or it deliberately allows the situation to develop so that it facilitates the takeover and exploitation of the huge natural resources we have up there by foreign multinational companies. Anyway, this is an attitude and a policy that is the very opposite of Jens Evensen's powerful initiative and focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e943	It has been incredibly interesting to live at a time when you have been able to follow the development of Norwegian offshore oil and gas activities from 1969. There have been many things, but not least knowledge-building to become a leading nation in some sectors of offshore, pipeline and underwater technology. We've taken that development gradually. We started cautiously. We were first in the Ekofisk and further developed this elsewhere in the North Sea, and provided the basis for the technology that was used on the Worm Lange, which is now being continued with technical innovation on Snow White. But the time we started with this, we had two alternatives. Firstly, we could have waited until the technology was good enough for all the optimal future requirements. Had we done that, we would have probably still been sitting on a rock in the beach zone of the South West and spitting over a sea that, hopefully, had been as clean as it is today. The second option was to address the opportunities and challenges, exploit them and develop technologies and solutions precisely on the basis of our own experience, by participating and building skills to become world leaders. Fortunately, that was the solution we chose. That's the same thing in the Barents Sea. The choice is between sitting on land and waiting for the outside world to meet our technological requirements, and also here to seize the opportunity, solve problems and move on. The question is important, because this is about establishing a whole basic industry for the population in our northernmost part of the country. And you could also view it in two different ways. Firstly, one could base the approach taken by Kristin Halvorsen at the open hearing of the Foreign Affairs Committee in Tromsø on 18 May, stating that the development of oil and gas in the Barents Sea would hardly have a significant impact on employment in the region. Or we have the other approach, which is going to draw on the experiences we've been doing elsewhere in the country, for example. in my own country of origin, Rogaland, which is also the basis for the OLF’s assessment that there may be 3 000–4 000 new jobs in that part of the country most in need. We have learned how competent the Norwegian supplier industry is to follow up on this development. Therefore, the opportunities in the north now create optimism in the supplier industry also in South Norway, and therefore we will also see it follow, develop and flourish in the north. We know from before the resistance of the Socialist Left to the activities in the Barents Sea, and I must admit that we have unusually low expectations for the party's blessing on the employment of the country and North Norway. But when the party in this case is also opposed to partnership with the Russians to draw Norwegian environmental offshore competence into the Russian side, it reminds most of the ostrich and the head in the sand, not to say in the tundra, which might have seemed a bit cool. Does SV really believe that the activity on the Russian side will stop if the Norwegian companies get stuck on land in a red-green political stick? Of course it's not like that. We can hope that our Russian friends will see themselves profited from using Norwegian environmental offshore technology. It will benefit the Russians, it will benefit the development of business and employment in the north, and it will also benefit the best possible solutions with the best possible environmental profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e957	The relationship between Russia and Norway has long been peaceful and stable. We share experiences that bind us together. We have a common boundary, but we share so much more. There are today many professional and close links between Russians and Norwegians. Cross-border contact in the Barents region is extensive, and very much works well. It shall include, inter alia: for the first time Norwegian-Russian military exercise is held on Russian soil this year. This expresses mutual trust and openness. I would particularly like to refer to the people-to-people cooperation. It is a necessary resource, both for the North and for the Russians. There has been strong cooperation between people in this northern region for hundreds of years in both culture, trade and shipping. Cooperation between the population of Kola and the population of Finnmark has been particularly strong, only interrupted by the Soviet period. Today, cross-border cooperation has been resumed. The churches are today a centre of Russian competence and cross-border cooperation. This applies not least to the Barents Secretariat. It plays an important role that facilitates at regional level. It has been over 12 years since Barents' cooperation was established, and it has played a major role in making the Northern Neighbourhood a new area of cooperation. Cooperation has been very successful in education, health, culture and indigenous issues. It is primarily on the grassroots plane that cooperation has its strength. It's positive. It testifies to a strong and sincere commitment to and from the neighbours across the border. I am pleased that the Barents cooperation project should be strengthened, and that it is considered to be one of the most important instruments we have in the North Region policy. The Christian People's Party believes it is right to assess Barents' cooperation to strengthen it and make the formal structures more effective. We also believe that this will be strengthened by the establishment of an international barn secretariat. It is important to clarify that the development of the Barents region must take place on its own premises. It is the inhabitants who live and work in the region, who know the challenges, and who know which actions will be most appropriate. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus to set up a barn institute in the Churches to study issues related to energy efficiency and regional cooperation. This can be achieved through increased support to the Barents Secretariat. I am pleased that the Government has strengthened nuclear safety cooperation with Russia. The largest concentration of nuclear installations in the world is found in the Kola Peninsula. There is a potential risk to the environment and for radioactive material to be balanced. It is Russia itself that is responsible for improving the security of civil and military stocks and installations. On the other hand, the tasks are too great to allow Russia to do this alone, and international efforts are therefore necessary. As a neighbouring country, we have a particular responsibility and interest in improving nuclear safety. Norway contributes, inter alia: for the scrapping of nuclear submarines in North-West Russia. We have implemented a number of measures in Andreyev Bay, we secure radioactive sources, and we finance the disposal of waste and waste management. We have a good dialogue with Russia on cooperation in the field of maritime safety and oil protection. However, increasing Russian oil transport along the Norwegian coast is very worrying. It is a major challenge, and on the Norwegian side, we must do everything we can to reduce the risk of catastrophic pollution accidents. Such measures include the extension of territorial waters, required navigational conductors and enhanced traffic control. A clean sea and effective preparedness measures are essential for fishing interests and the environment. The role of indigenous peoples is becoming increasingly prominent in international forums, including where issues relating to the northern regions are being discussed. 2005 is declared the year of Barent's Urfolk. We now have the opportunity to focus on the situation of indigenous peoples in education, health, culture and the economy. I wonder at the consistent line of the Progress Party throughout the entire setting, which is about choosing not to comment on any of the questions that address the situation of indigenous peoples. It may seem that the party does not see the importance of or the need for indigenous people's experiences or recordings. The Sami population has for a long time cooperated across the border on clean water, better health, women’s projects, schools and culture. I hope that the Progress Party will soon be able to realize that indigenous peoples' culture and traditional ways of living in themselves are self-valued for the whole region.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e974	The issue that Stortinget has to deal with today is not based on the world’s most comprehensive big business report. I guess you could say that. SV was also critical when it was presented, in relation to the level of ambition that we thought the government had set itself, and would like it to be much higher. But I have to be able to say in this debate that I think the Stortinget has taken a responsibility to raise the perspective from the fact that many of us have discussed north-eastern issues as if it were part of district policy. Now, Stortinget has clearly confirmed that Northern Region policy is part of national policy and part of our main national interests. As such, it needs much greater political interest from all over the Storting. SV also has a responsibility to get to this. So we're talking about Norway managing 30 pst. of the total territory of the country and sea in Europe, and that at the end of a four-year period, we now need to sum up that the Foreign Affairs Committee has spent much more time on Iraq, Afghanistan and many other countries in the world, and the SV have contributed to every minute of it. Nothing of that has been uninteresting, but I think we have a responsibility to make sure that we are now more focused on Northern Region policy as well. The three main areas of Norwegian foreign policy are, in the SV's view, peace building, the possibility of participating in peace mediation in different conflicts and pooling knowledge about it, the North Region policy and, of course, the fight against poverty. On the side of this, the efforts we need to have towards Norway’s interests in relation to the EU will be much more significant. But let me say a little bit about how SV sees it that we have to follow up on this in practice, because now we've come a little bit on the way. Part of the discussion has concerned the nature of the organisation of such an increased perspective in the north. The Government has notified that it is a State Secretary who shall be primarily responsible for this. Actually, it's very unusual that the Storting interferes with it at all, or that the Government reports to the Storting how you intend to organize it. Others have proposed to have their own minister for this area. I think there are several ways to do this, but no matter how you organize it, it's when the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are the foremost targets of this perspective, that we can get some way. On the other hand, whether Russia, the United States or the EU, it will be the foreign ministers and the national leaders they meet. It is therefore important that this is on top of the agenda both for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and for the Prime Minister. I do not demand that they look to the north both morning and evening, but at least either morning or evening, in the perspective that we should not only look beyond the world, but also northward towards our own main interests. What a bet of course requires is money and priority. What has happened in recent years is that our efforts have fallen. I now expect everyone to agree that we should go the other way and step up. The estate has not committed itself to a barntsmilliard, but it is located close to the corner. The next point is what concerns what kind of business to focus on. It is not without reason that many have been concerned that this message has been largely an oil and gas message for the north. Nor is it difficult to understand that it appears to be the gigantic, capital-intensive project in the north. At the same time, we in SV believe that it is our job to hold up some other perspectives for the development of the northern regions. Firstly, billions of investment will in any case not meet the needs of new jobs and new businesses in the north, regardless of whether you are in favour or against, one must also have a policy. Secondly, not just as protection, but as the potential for further development. We have a tax to manage. There are knowledge of the Barents Sea that we haven't yet discovered about the interaction between fish and other parts of nature. Here we know that tomorrow's many industries are also located. We can't manage it in such a way that it's lost. These are knowledge, technology and industrial development. The next point is infrastructure. It is essential for the development of this area. If we had got a railway from Kirkenes to Nikel, it would have been a very exciting opportunity for further development. The next point is about travel lives. Here we have a great opportunity. Finally, we have a lot to learn from the indigenous people in this area. Here, there are traditions of cross-border cooperation, where the majority in Norway have an enormous amount to learn. That there are some people in the hall who don't feel the need to learn from anyone else, they get their coat on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e993	The North is a resource force centre that we need to focus heavily on in the future. I therefore fully agree with the majority of the Committee that there is a need for a more powerful and coordinated Norwegian policy in relation to the north. I find reason to stress that what is happening and going to happen in the northern regions is a matter that concerns the whole nation and is of great international interest. The Committee's clarification of the need for military presence in the areas to mark Norwegian sovereignty and to defend the vital interests of the region is very important. I hope that in the future we can have a more predictable and comprehensive situation for the Defence in the north. I believe that the many crackdowns on the future of defence in the north are unfortunate both for operation and for recruitment. The Workers' Party will have an active north-eastern policy of conservation, harvesting and further processing in the primary industries. In particular, the marine resources are vital to North Norway and also require close cooperation with Russia. It is necessary to cooperate across borders in such a way that security can be created and at the same time safeguard the environment and ensure peaceful development in the area. An active industrial policy for the north will be the basis for North settlement, welfare and development. When we know that 25 pst. of the world's unused petroleum resources are assumed to be located in the Arctic regions, we understand a bit of the dimensions. When we also know that the market opportunities for oil and gas from the area are very good, we see the enormous potential for industrial development in the north. In addition, we know that Norwegian companies are in the knowledge front in this area. These are conditions that will have a major impact on the economy of the country and the region. Therefore, it is so important to provide for more intensive monitoring and offensive exploration policies in the petroleum sector. I see it as very important that the future petroleum activity in the north leaves behind some of the employment and infrastructure in the country, and that the suppliers do not remain mainly in other parts of the country and beyond the borders of the country. The possibilities in the north are enormous, but I'm afraid that development will be blocked. The northern regions cannot remain like a protected area where we cannot exploit the resources that we are so lucky to possess. The part of the land requires that the elevated petroleum activity may result. Just look at the activity created after the start of the Snow White plant in Hammerfest. We need more such commercial lighthouses in the north. Of course, we need clear environmental standards and high environmental and technological requirements, but at the same time we need to be allowed to develop the area. I see it as very important that we start more petroleum activity as soon as possible, because the activity on the Russian side requires more presence of Norwegian preparedness and Norwegian competence. With the increased petroleum activity that will come to the north, it is important that the Petroleum Control Department in the north is provided with a department as soon as possible. Such an office must be added to Harstad, where the Oil Directorate already has a department, and where several oil companies are established with their own offices and a very good professional environment. I believe that this is such an important matter that it must be on the agenda already in connection with the budgetary procedure for the autumn. I have wondered that the environment in Rogaland is negative to this, but if we are to have petroleum activity in the north, such services must also be present in the area. We must all be able to cooperate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1014	The Nordgebietsmeldning is not the most comprehensive big message the world has ever seen. The representative of Halvorsen is quite right in that. In return, it's the first big message anyone's ever seen about the northern regions. Because no previous Norwegian government has found it necessary to present a comprehensive perspective on the challenges facing Norway in our northern seas. For my part, I consider the size of this big message to be quite exemplary, and I would like all of the big messages to strive for the same format. In fact, if we focus on the essential lines and the key issues, we could have a better basis for real political dissent in this Chamber. I would like to return to the perspective outlined by the Committee's chairman, Thorbjørn Jagland, at the beginning of today's debate. The reason why the Government presents such a message is, of course, the major changes that have occurred since the end of the Cold War. After the collapse of the old terror balance system, there has been a situation in which our northern regions represent a whole new challenge – to ourselves. Because we can no longer expect to get anything for free, in the sense that there is someone in our environment and of our friends who per. definition has interests in common with ours. No one! That is to say, we have to do the job ourselves, make sure that we get the enough political back coverage, make sure that our views on, for example, are taken into account. The Svalbard zone, understood by others, ensures that there are other countries that are interested in constructive cooperation with Norway in order to exploit the natural resources that lie within our sovereignty. I have registered in Nordic cooperation that our Nordic neighbours have their point of view elsewhere. For them, Nordic cooperation is becoming a pure Baltic Sea cooperation. It is also linked to the fact that, in the rhetoric of the European Union, the northern dimension of the Gulf of Bothnia ends. It's natural in itself that that's what's their focus. But we need to make them understand that the areas further north are also a common challenge for all European countries. It's a strange special note we had in a succession earlier today, of the three parties Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. It's in itself a strange alliance, when you think about the ideological color these three parties have. But it's even more strange when you read – and here I find it necessary to quote – what the three parties have entered in the setting. After they have outlined this challenge, where the United States, Russia and the EU are partners we need to interact with, but which can be considered individually to have interests other than ours, they say that the answer to this is: ‘This also requires Norway to maintain a certain military presence in the north’ — a certain military presence — ‘... also in order to assert national interests if necessary’. The same note is closed as follows: ‘The arrangements and organisation of the defence should be reviewed... with a view to ensuring capacity in the north in the short and long term.’ After all the normal reading, this is classic cannon boat diplomacy. It is said that the answer to any conflict interests in the north is a national military presence. This isn't about the Coast Guard, who the Center Party leader tried to talk it over with instead. The problem of this is further reinforced by the fact that in the second context, two of the three parties, the Centre Party and the SV, have declared that developments in the relationship between NATO and the EU indicate that Norway should pursue a more independent policy, that is independent of both NATO and EU security cooperation. Then this is a classic doctrine that goes out on national military upgrading. It's amazing that especially the Socialist Left Party, with its history, was going to end up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1047	It has been exciting to follow the debate on the north, and it is gratifying to note the cross-political consensus that has largely marked the speeches. The opposition parties, in their comments, have gathered in a pious desire for a strong and coordinated north-eastern policy. But when it comes to the concrete actions, they separate layers and crack in different directions. Not surprisingly, the Progress Party is the most distinguished, and it is particularly disappointing to see that the party chooses completely to ignore our responsibility for the indigenous groups. I have taken the floor first and foremost to stress the importance of strengthening Barents' cooperation. It is very gratifying that the Government in the Communication commits to further developing this cooperation by proposing the establishment of the Barents Institute of the Churches and an increase in support of the Barents Secretariat. In particular, the Barents Institute shall study issues related to energy development and regional cooperation. From the Norwegian side, there are the three northernmost states that have been drivers of regional cooperation, and the major opportunities that lie in the Barents region. It was very exciting to visit the business community of the Churches for a while, and experienced both optimism and great competence in Russia's cooperation. There is a huge market east of us, and the prospects for trade and industrial cooperation are increasing as economic growth in Russia progresses. Let me mention two important transport projects in this region that will have a major impact on future development. First of all, it's the plans made for the railway between Kirkenes and Nikel. It's a very interesting transport solution, like, for example, could become a future Russian gas transport corridor. The Committee asks for a more detailed assessment of this railway link, and the Christian People's Party will be a driving force for further investigation work. So to another transport project in the region, which has come further in development, the so-called New Corridor, which is the name of an exciting transport year between China and the United States by rail and boat, and with Narvik as the port of embarkation. Sample transports are to be carried out here already in the autumn. Freight transport between internal China and the United States by eastern route today takes about Forty days, while following the western route via Narvik, it only takes 20 days. Such a transport year will provide great opportunities for development for the Barents region. In the Christian People's Party, we are very pleased that the Government is involved in supporting this project. Developments in the Barents region are highly dependent on national but also highly dependent on international support. Here, cooperation in the Nordic region is very important. The Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers have been an important body for the promotion of north-eastern issues. The northern dimension of the EU, which was adopted by the Nordic Council in December 1997, has also played a major role in the development of the northern regions. But now there is every reason to follow closely both developments in the Nordic countries and in the EU as a whole, as regards the interest in the northern regions, as the representative Inge Wohnning has also pointed out in a previous post. Following the enlargement of the EU, there has been a sharp turn of focus in the EU. Enlargement to the east has led to increased interest in the Baltic Sea region, and the EU has committed itself to raising the standard of living in the new Member States. This is a fact, regardless of whether Norway is in the EU or not. What gives the most cause for concern is that our Nordic friends also want to spend more time and resources on Baltic Sea cooperation. In the long term, therefore, we are likely to receive less help to keep focus on north-eastern cooperation. It is therefore very important that Norway, in the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers, of the Nordic Council of Ministers and in consultations with the European Union, keep under pressure the development of the northern regions and the northern dimension of the EU. Following an invitation from the Stortinget and the Nordic Council, we will meet at the end of the month at the Second Parliamentary Conference of Barents Cooperation in Bodø. Here, the main focus will be on cooperation in Northern Europe, sustainable development and economic activity in the Barents region and the role and conditions of indigenous peoples in the Barents region. Here, the first battle will be for further development in the region we are dealing with today, and it will be particularly important for Norway to continue its driving role here in order to bring the whole of Northern Europe into line with continued efforts in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1068	Norway is north, Norway is coast. Therefore, both in our foreign policy and in our domestic policy, we need to focus on the specific opportunities and challenges associated with our interests in the North and in the coastal and marine areas. In my opinion, we need to raise five areas of the Northern Region policy: Firstly, the international community must join forces to address the environmental problems of Kola. There are huge stocks of nuclear waste here. This is one of the world's greatest environmental challenges. It's a threat to us and to the world community. Russia is not able to meet this challenge alone. It is high time that the world community, represented by the EU, the United States and others, met this challenge. The Norwegian authorities need to place this matter on the agenda more consistently. Secondly, Norway and Russia must together ensure the sustainable management of our common fish stocks. It requires that we ensure the best possible long-term management, but it also requires better control of the resource outsourcing. We have seen serious examples of Russian fishing vessels fishing illegally. Norwegian authorities need to clarify requirements for action against unregistered fishing. Thirdly, we need to use the oil and gas resources in the area to create growth and better well-being. A quarter of the world’s undiscovered oil and gas resources are believed to be in the Arctic region — a significant part of the Barents Sea. Norway must take the lead in developing its oil and gas activities in the north. We have to be active in order to have influence. At the same time, Norway must, through its own activities, mark its own interests. Then, of course, we need to impose strict environmental requirements, and we need to develop technologies that allow compliance. In this way, we can influence both companies and financial institutions to impose stricter requirements on the activity also on the Russian side. We need to develop the petroleum activity in interaction with Russia. We must have the ambition to be able to contribute to developments on the Russian side. But first of all, we need to focus on the possibilities on the Norwegian side. That is where the foremost Norwegian interest lies. This is how we have to take care of our strategic interests. This is how we will create new jobs in Coastal Finland. But this is also how we can develop technological solutions that provide competitiveness for Norwegian companies on the Russian side. Fourthly, we must contribute to social development and better living conditions for the people living in the area. New activities create jobs and revenues that will contribute to social development both on the Norwegian and on the Russian side. We need to create a stronger foundation for the communities in North Norway. But not least, new activity in the area must contribute to better living conditions for our neighbours in North-West Russia. It is also important for the stability of the area. Norwegian authorities must contribute to increased international support for economic growth in North-West Russia. And we have to help solve the health challenges in the area. Fifthly, we need to strengthen contact between people in the area. Then cultural cooperation is important. Training cooperation is then important. Contact between people and organisations is then important. Norwegian authorities need much more targeted support during this work and avoid arbitrary budget cuts that we have seen in recent years. Barn cooperation must be strengthened. There must be a separate barn institute in Kirkenes. These measures are closely related. Better living conditions in North-West Russia will contribute to stability and relaxation. Economic growth will increase the opportunities to clean up environmental problems. Similarly, Norwegian foreign policy and Norwegian domestic policy must be seen in the context. Increased industrial activity, new jobs and more stable housing in the north give Norway greater weight to identify Norwegian interests in the north. I would therefore like to warn against those who see the regional policy effort – among others. in Finnmark and in Nord-Troms – as a question of spending a few dollars more there than in other areas. Firstly, it is an independent objective to ensure the main features of our national housing pattern. Then the challenges are quite different along the coast of Finnmark than in any other part of the country. Secondly, we must have an offensive business and district policy to trigger the enormous opportunities in the area. However, active industrial and district policies in the north are also essential to safeguard our national interests in a broader international context. Norway established Barents cooperation as a channel for cooperation on development in the north. We must now strengthen this work – at state level, at regional level. At the same time, we as parliamentarians must be more involved in cooperation. There's still a lot left. Finally, it is quite incredible that Northern Region policy is not too far established as Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest. As one of the speakers said, so far it has been seen as district policy. And as someone said, so far in the period, foreign policy has been concentrated south. It is high time to recognise that this is Norway’s main foreign policy area of interest and Norway’s main industrial potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1096	Finally, I fully agree with the last thing that was said. I just must have said that. In fact, I and many others belong to the first generation that has not really experienced the cold war. Today, relations with Russia are normalised – after 70 years with closed borders and communism in the east. Trade and trade with our brothers in the East have historically given the people on both sides of the border prosperity. The situation with tanks placed on the border is over, and we're all looking forward. Now there is cooperation to contribute to the development of wealth in all the countries concerned. And instead of mines and barbed wire, the theme is the link between the churches and Russia. When the wall fell, Russia had for a long time been cut off from participation in cooperation in the North Callot. Especially the daily interaction had been significantly reduced after decades of closed borders. Cooperation in the Barents region, with the Barents Secretariat at the head, was about to start the people-to-people cooperation and industrial cooperation in the same region. In retrospect, it must be said that this has been largely successful. Much knowledge and competence have followed in the wake of this work. I am therefore pleased that the Government proposed the creation of a bartending institute in the Church. The plans for such an institute are to contribute a scientific approach to border regional cooperation both in the north and elsewhere, which I believe will further strengthen cooperation in the north. Knowledge and competence are key concepts of the Northern Territory Communication of the Government. In the Communication, there is just a knowledge of the north as regards climate, environment, policy challenges and renewable and non-renewable resources that have been given attention. That's the knowledge building we have to do with other countries in the Circumpolar region. But it's also a recognition of the work done so far. I have registered that some representatives in various media have criticised the Northern Region Communication of the Government that it does not contain enough domestic policy areas. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to refer to the Government's research report, which will be discussed in Stortinget tomorrow. A significant escalation of research resources is proposed in Norway. Theme areas that are also relevant to the northern regions have been addressed in depth. In particular, marine sector and petroleum research has taken a central position. There are actually little conflicts in the Stortinget about Norwegian Northern Region policy. I think that's good for the work to be done in the north. Unfortunately, there is one area of Northern Region policy where the Stortinget deviates from its consensus, namely in the position of oil and gas in the north. I think it would be pointless to talk about industrial cooperation in the north while at the same time being against the extraction of petroleum in the north. No matter what attitude Norway has toward this activity, Russia cannot be required to do the same. I certainly believe that both Norway, Russia, the environment and the inhabitants of the northern regions will be served by petroleum activity on the Norwegian side as well. I can't say that I'm optimistic about future activity in the Barents Sea if SV wins with its resistance to petroleum extraction. Everyone living in the northern regions should hope that SV will not have any influence after the election. Industrial cooperation is essential for further development in the north. It is therefore important that we contribute through political processes to the removal of unnecessary obstacles. Unfortunately, the border crossing between Norway and Russia has been a recurring issue and attention should be paid. I am pleased that the Government aims to establish a Norwegian business contact in Murmansk. I think that would be of great help to Norwegian interests. I want to commend the Government – and Foreign Minister Jan Petersen in particular – for the presentation of the Northern Territory Communication, which sets out important and correct directions for the political challenges in the North. I also believe that there is reason to commend the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United Kingdom, which has dealt with the communication in a very thorough manner and has given the Government support for its Northern Region policy. Nordgebietpolitik is important for the nation of Norway. But I can't help because I, as a native of the north, think it's very good that the Storting spends so long and so much resources just discussing the areas that matter a lot to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1124	Nelson Mandela was standing on the intercom in Tromsø on Saturday. He spoke to 18,000 met up and to the rest of the world. He spoke directly to us politicians and encouraged us to take responsibility in relation to the divided world in which we live. He challenged us to take responsibility for the millions of children who die because they don't have access to drugs, and he said that AIDS threatens the very core of our lives. When the story is written, we will then be remembered as the generation that turned its back on a global crisis, or it will be written that we did the right thing, asked Nelson Mandela. History will judge us. In 2004, more than 3 million people were killed by AIDS, while 5 million people were infected by HIV. Nowhere in the world is the HIV/AIDS epidemic growing faster than in Russia and Eastern Europe. 309 000 are officially registered as HIV positive in Russia. The experts believe that the real figure is much higher, and there is an explosive trend in the spread. Tuberculosis is also under explosive development in North-West Russia. It's actually not economics to treat everyone who needs it. You have to make a choice about who should be treated, and who should not. In fact, there is now a risk of losing control over both the HIV/AIDS epidemic and the tuberculosis epidemic in Russia. These two infectious diseases are serious. We need to focus on a strong strengthening of health work in Russia and on strengthening voluntary work. Today, I want to praise the work of the voluntary organisations in Russia, among others. Red Cross’s preventive aid project against HIV and AIDS, Redd Barna’s street children’s project and Norsk Folkehelp’s women’s aid project. These projects are good, and they are extremely important. Strengthening health work is necessary. It's our commitment to our neighbours. But it is also important in relation to the stability of the northern regions. There is no other border between two countries in the world where there is such a big distinction in terms of economics and living standards as there is between Norway and Russia. I hope the Mandela concert in Tromsø in the weekend moved the world a little bit and changed the world a little. It was a small but enormously important contribution. Tromsø has been put on the map – not for a concert, but for her social commitment, to contribute to the world, to set the agenda and to raise a case as important as HIV/AIDS. This requires both knowledge, commitment and competence. The signals were sent out strongly. The hope is that this will be on the agenda of the G8 Summit. I hope that the concert has made some headway in Norway, and that it will keep going. This obliges Norway, with its knowledge and competence, to make concrete and good proposals to strengthen this area. ‘It is far from this country. Most of it is north.” That’s how the rapporteur started the first article on the Northern Region Communication today. The debate that has been in the Chamber today shows that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on this. Increased bets and focus in the north are enormously important. It's about time it came. This must involve a new political focus, both on the opportunities and on the challenges we face in the northern regions. However, it must also involve a fairer distribution of governance, organisation and placement of both institutions and policy management in Norway. In North Norway, there are strong environments of competence in a broad and comprehensive field, and not least there is a drive and a will. It is necessary to distribute power to North Norway. North Norway is prepared to accept this power and manage it well. There are many strong environments of competence in North Norway – a huge number of them. I will quickly mention some of these environments that are important: telemedicine, the University Hospital, the University of Tromsø, the Polar Environment Centre, the Municipalities, the municipalities, research institutions, the national colleges, the Barents Secretariat – which has been mentioned many times before – The weather forecast, an enormous number of voluntary organisations and a number of companies. What I hope this will lead to is that, in the future, more responsibility is placed on both national and international tasks in North Norway, because in the north, not least has experience of cooperation in the Barents region through generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1143	It is a relatively rare situation that a big-time report arouses so much political debate, so much economic attention and also commercial interest. At the outset, I think that there is reason to give reasonable commendation to the Government, and in particular to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, for focusing on the north for the first time, and not least on the possibilities of the north. I think it's part of this debate and the message that that reflects. It focuses on future perspectives, on opportunities and how to exploit these opportunities for the benefit of our nation. From my point of view, I would like to point out that what we are really discussing, far on the way, is Norway’s future – long after the oil and gas resources, which have been in focus today, and their exploitation has ended. If we manage the northern areas in a good and sound way, we will be able to harvest some of the world's richest fishing resources for hundreds of years to come – in generations to come. Norwegian Arctic cod and Norwegian spring herrings have their breeding areas in the North Sea and in the Barents Sea, providing opportunities for new products, new value creation and new employment far beyond the medium-term and, in part, the short-term perspective of the oil and gas industry. But of course, it's also important to bring in. However, I would like to stress that renewable resources also need attention when discussing north-eastern policy. It is not just Norway's future that is in focus. In many ways, this also helps to secure Europe’s future in terms of energy supply and food security in the coming years – for future generations, in fact. I would also like to emphasise that, as we are discussing it today, Northern Region policy is part of our national policy. It must not be reduced to become a discussion of what is going to happen in the churches, versus what is going to happen in Murmansk. To that, this is too important. Too many opportunities and too many resources are at stake for this to be diverted into the area of Finnmark-North-West Russia. It's about our entire northern part of the country, and it's about taking advantage of the opportunities there. I also think that what has been in focus here today, the need for coordination in government circles in order to exploit these opportunities in the long term, has come up well. Then I think it is a complete derailment to propose either a directorate or a separate minister for the northern regions. This must be anchored as far as possible in the political system, and to the extent that the Foreign Minister has not put himself in the focus and can do even better, I think he must also take on the responsibility he has and should have to coordinate both defence, environment, industry, fisheries, law and the whole range of trades within the government apparatus in this area. The second focus of the notification is the need for knowledge production and awareness-raising. If we are to gain new knowledge and growth in the north with the resources and opportunities required in the notification, it also requires knowledge production, and knowledge production requires research. As mentioned earlier, the Government has submitted, in parallel with this Communication, a research communication with fields of direct involvement in the North Sea issue. Real science, marine business development, innovation and innovation, business development and technology investment are crucial, we shall be able to achieve the development that we all want and see for ourselves in the North. Then I believe that the policy that is now being pursued by the Government with regard to upgrading the Nordic higher education institutions, including the University of Tromsø, not least in terms of technology transfer from the south to the north, possibly technology transfer of the best that has to be available internationally, in order to put it into use in the northern regions to build a knowledge-based industry in the north, is an important and proper strategy for the future. With the bet that's now happening, I think we're actually about to be able to build Norway up again to become a polar power force. I am not at least a little frightened by the concerns of SV, who are not at all able to see opportunities, but only problems related to the northern regions – also. It will be an accident for our country if this red-green option is to be based on SV's policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1162	A comprehensive Norwegian strategy and thinking about the northern regions and our relationship with Russia has been sought and longed for. Today's debate has dimensions and a range I think we're barely able to take inwards. As far as the north is concerned, opportunities are high, but the challenges are also in line. In a debate on the north, it is important to see Norway’s efforts in the light of other activities in north-west Russia and the Nordic countries. In the Nordic Council, we have a long experience of dealing with and cooperating with Russia. For many years, the Nordic and, in particular, Finland's relationship with the Soviet Union was a crucial limitation on the possibility of conducting some kind of foreign policy discussion in the Nordic Council. After the Berlin Wall fell and the Soviet Union was dissolved, the foreign policy dimension of Nordic cooperation has become very important. There has been a greater focus on the Baltic countries, but also on North-West Russia and on central Russian authorities in Moscow. Recent developments are that the attention and resources of Nordic cooperation are to be increasingly focused on Russia and, in the long term, on the Baltic countries. At the forthcoming Nordic Council session in Reykjavik for the autumn, we are expected to receive a ministerial proposal for a separate Russia programme. As far as Russia is concerned, the Nordic Council has worked for a long time at regional level in relation to the authorities of North-West Russia, but has also had extensive contact with the Federation Council and the State Duma in Moscow. In the political dialogue, democracy in a broad sense has been central. There has been extensive participation in meetings and conferences addressing issues such as freedom of expression, environmental protection and the fight against international organised crime. Nordic institutions, such as the Nordic Investment Bank and NEFKO, have among others: contributed to the financing of key environmental projects relating to nuclear safety and clean water, but also with capital for industrial cooperation between the Nordic countries and Russia. It is important that we, who have participated in these meetings and got Russian contacts, also use national knowledge and contacts in our relationship with Russia. I have noted that the Government in its big message says that they want to establish north-eastern dialogues with a number of actors: the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Canada and the EU. This is important and good. But I have to remind you that we must not forget our closest neighbours, the Nordic countries, when it comes to keeping focus on the northern regions. It is important to work constantly for better cooperation in the North Callot, including among Nordic friends. We who live north of Northern Europe must work together to draw attention to the north, because it is a fact that Finland, Sweden and Denmark have the Baltic Sea in their main focus. Iceland has the West-North in its main focus. The challenges we face in the north are not Norwegian alone, they're international, they're Nordic, they're European. But we have to use all our channels to get European politicians to see what a huge challenge lies in the north. That is the area in the world that has the most unused resources, and is thus a potential area of conflict. Today, many political organisations and non-governmental organisations are involved and involved in cross-border cooperation in the north. There is a lot of good work done on many levels, and a lot of this work brings people closer together across borders. I would like to stress the importance of coordinating the efforts of the actors involved in this work, so that the results are best achieved. In this context, I would like to mention that on 29 and 30 June this year the Nordic Council and the Stortinget are organising the second Barents Parliamentary Conference with the participation of the Nordic countries, Russia, the Sami Parliamentary Council and the European Parliament. These are also observers from the Baltic Assembly and the Benelux Parliamentary Assembly. At this conference, one of the main themes will be the design of future cooperation in Northern Europe. It is not immaterial, and it is therefore not immaterial what will be the final document of this conference and the follow-up we will have from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1184	The poet Rolf Jacobsen says in his poem "Nord": ‘It is far from this country. Most of it is north.’ Until today, this has not been correct, but with the knowledge we have today about the resources in the northern regions, Rolf Jacobsen's claim is about to become a truth. The enormous oil and gas resources available in the northern regions have led the energy-intensive nations to throw their eyes on this future energy region. For four years today's government has been sitting on the fence, while the criticism from the north has been bitter. In the last little bit, St.meld. No 30, Opportunities and Challenges in the North – a half-hearted attempt to follow up the Orheim Committee position towards the North! and a countermeasure to respond to the criticism from the part of the country. It must be said that the Committee's attitude is to make a weak notification much better. Of course, the appropriations in the revised budget are also well received in the north. It's lifted in the last month. However, a long-term national policy on how Norway should assert its sovereignty in the north through its presence and activity is now needed by Norway. This requires a national strategy. It requires bilateral agreements providing for common standards and common driving rules for the extraction of oil and gas, common traffic rules and common environmental standards. We need a national development strategy 30 years in advance. If Norway is to have a policy objective of optimising the use of resources in the north – and such a strategy should be – it has to be in a long-term perspective and under the slogan ‘Fish and oil in good neighbourliness’. Last week we were able to read in the Finnmark papers that the oil companies got boasted by the fishermen in Finnmark. The snow-white development and exploration in the Barents Sea have occurred without any conflict. A national long-term strategy for extraction must also have the support and confidence of fishermen. Safety requirements against emissions must be mandatory. Environmental measures and security require enhanced bilateral cooperation in the north. The sources in the north are a national responsibility with an international dimension. Norway must adopt a comprehensive north-eastern policy. Norway must have increased activity and presence in these areas. Norway must adopt a long-term national policy that respects all these perspectives. Last but not least, I would like to stress again: the extraction of oil and gas in the north is a national task which, because of its strategic location, requires a national policy with an international focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1210	Many of today's speakers have talked about the great opportunities that lie in our northern regions, where, in a wise balance, we are going to make good use of large petroleum resources in close and proper understanding with continued harvesting from Europe's top chamber. It's actually the cleanest ocean in the world. It is important that we do something to achieve this coexistence that will contribute so much to Norwegian business and Norwegian economy for many, many decades to come – not just to North Norway, but to the joy of the supplier industry and many jobs also to the south of the country. Norwegian offshore technology is at the forefront of the world, and it will continue to be. I will give tribute to the Government to take important initiatives towards our great neighbour in the East, but also perhaps especially to our oil and energy minister for her action to promote possible prospective areas for further development. The expectation of the 19th call is exciting in this context. In the rest of my post, I will focus on a disturbing threat to this rich resource area. It's about the storage of old nuclear waste. Unfortunately, one of the consequences of a failed political system in the former Soviet Union was a fatal and deficient nuclear waste policy. The Energy and Environment Committee was on its way to North-West Russia in the context of the high-level communication on clean and rich seas. We were, among other things, the first parliamentary delegation to visit the Bay of Andrey, where the Russians have very unsatisfactory stocks of military nuclear waste, corresponding to 5000 Hiroshima bombs. So just 45 km from our border, 21,000 spent nuclear fuel elements are stored in three concrete tanks that are in very poor condition. Here, however, capacity was filled in 1996, and since 1997, containers of fuel cells have been stored in open air. In the years between 1982 and 1989, we know that due to the lack of maintenance and frost damage, large amounts of radioactive material leaked to the terrain and still transported radioactive material through the river and into the Litsaford. Some have pointed out that the Bay of Andrey is probably one of the world's most dangerous places to stay. It might sound like the purest science fiction, but it's actually the reality. The attention given to the emissions of radioactive material from this area and the imminent threat image has been completely muted in the focus that has been on the Sellafield emissions. Nevertheless, we have managed to achieve valuable cooperation between Norway and Russia, where the current government has taken valuable initiatives to realise infrastructure to help secure and later move this waste. It is in this perspective that we need to see the disagreement that arises in the Committee's position on the relocation and intermediate storage of huge amounts of nuclear waste, versus recovery processing at the worn-out and immature plant in Mayak in Siberia. The work that the Syse government started in this area needs to continue. The solutions chosen must be rational and practical. Contaminations at sea and air do not have any borders, and therefore the Government's active attitude to cooperation in this area is very important. In recognition of both dependence on and vulnerability in our sea areas, it is positive that the Northern Territory Communication of the Government is essentially bringing together a broad political majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1227	I am pleased that such a message has been submitted, and even more satisfied that it is now somewhat tightened up in relation to what the Government put forward. We want to take a boost in the north and have a more powerful policy. This is an important clarification, as I think the Government must remember. There is a need for a more powerful and coordinated policy towards the north. This is just a start on raising this area higher on the international political agenda. It is important to also point out the need to ensure the population base and the economic development of the northernmost countries. One of the biggest challenges we have is youth. How are we going to get young people to stay and possibly come back to the part of the country? What do we have to offer this generation of exciting jobs? But not enough of that: what other possibilities exist? Are there cultural offerings? What about school offerings, etc.? That's how I could keep going. Then at least one of the answers is that we have to be allowed to exploit the natural resources and opportunities we have in North Norway, so that we can create activity in many areas. Northern Norway is the part of the country of opportunity. Let's take advantage of them! This message that is here today is not just a North Norway issue, but a national issue. It is important to strengthen the knowledge base through significant efforts in environmental research, competence and monitoring. Norway must be a leading nation here. A comprehensive management plan for the Barents Sea is important, which will also include an assessment of the petroleum activity. But we must not forget the Lofoten. I'm referring to Northland VI and VII. It is an important matter for the Nordic states, which, in my opinion, have received little attention today. The Nordic states also want to participate. We don't want to be sidetracked. It should be noted that both government and magnificence. Norway has significant interests in the energy resources of the Barents Sea. I am also very pleased that the Committee believes that an active North Enterprise and District Policy is crucial in a long-term strategy to safeguard our interests in the North. Business life in Northern Norway needs to be further developed on the basis of competence and on the basis of the rich natural resources in the region. Nord-Norway has a significant environment of technology companies. As stated in the setting: ‘It is important to strengthen these bands and the positions of the Nordic supplier industries within the Barents region and in a Norwegian-Russian market. It applies to both petroleum industry, new renewable energy, ship traffic, oil protection [[Norlense]] What is also important is to draw attention to, among other things. Narvik port, which has valid plans for the further development of the Narvik terminal, which will enable it to handle 430000 20 ft containers per. years. Narvik municipality cooperates with the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Coastal Administration and the municipality of Nordland on enlargement. Test transportation of goods from the United States to China over the port of Narvik is also under way. It is particularly important that the State supports the efforts of local authorities to determine the conditions for the establishment of this east/west corridor. Finally, I would like to say that I would like to support the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen from Troms in saying that the Petroleum Authority must have an office in Harstad, and that this must be put on the agenda as soon as possible. This is a claim from all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1254	Activities in the northern regions offer an incredible number of exciting opportunities. In addition to the fact that the Barents Sea has rich fishing bodies and special farming opportunities for cod, there is reason to believe that there are significant petroleum resources in the areas. The strategic location and the estimated rich resources make the area an important policy area. In addition, North Sea areas face special industrial challenges due to a time-consuming climate and a long period of darkness. In the light of these challenges, the big picture of opportunities and challenges in the north is a very important document and has been followed up with a good attitude. I'm going to leave the major policy issues behind. They are well covered by the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee. My starting point is that the opportunities in the petroleum industry are so interesting to the nation of Norway, and especially to our northernmost states that can stand in front of an industrial development that none of us had thought was possible. An indication of this is the development in Hammerfest and Finnmark, where Snow White clearly shows how much activity such a project can create, and what technological empowerment in the area such a project can lead to. If it is possible to link research, education and this activity together, this competence will be further developed and maintained. But I think we should be more ambitious about the oil and gas business in the north. There have already been major findings of both oil and gas on the Russian side of the margin line, and there may be considerable resources across the sea. At the same time, we know that the Barents Sea is a vulnerable area to oil spills, chemicals, damage to coral reefs, etc., where the fish can become the losing party. If, at the beginning of the petroleum activity in the north, we can establish an environmental standard and a technological standard for extraction throughout the region, we can all feel more confident that accidents will not happen. Therefore, positioning is now so important that both the United States, the EU and Russia can see the benefits of having Norway play a significant role in both setting a good environmental standard in the area and setting a high level of extraction in the fields, with high efficiency in the exploration and extraction phase. In addition to the petroleum industry itself in the north, there has also been concern about extensive oil transport along our northern coastline. The debate has gone on on what preparedness we should have to be able to clean up quickly after any shipwrecks with significant oil spills. There is no doubt that extensive commercial activities with large material and personnel resources in our northernmost counties provide greater opportunities for rapid assistance in such cases, and supply vessels involved in the activities of oil companies will have equipment that is important in such situations. It's on this background that I hope today's government can continue. Right wants a good development for our northern part of the country and a continued exciting development of our petroleum activity. That is why I see with great scepticism an alternative to red-green government, how strong forces will stop – yes, even perhaps using civil insubordination to prevent – a good development for Norway and a significant economic and competence boost for Northern, Troms and Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1269	The Nordgebiet Message contains a number of positive actions that will be fundamental in the formulation of the wider North Sea policy. From the Nordic side, I believe that the message places great emphasis on external relations. In the future, it will be important to see business development, housing, infrastructure, sustainable resource management, environmental considerations and defence and security policies in a context where both local and regional have a strong influence over the international community. This means that the resources in the northern regions will benefit the population of Northern Norway. It is then important to continue and strengthen Barents' cooperation, not least in order to strengthen cooperation with Russia. Much greater emphasis should be placed on research, development and knowledge-building, and this work should be added to actors in the area. This is a prerequisite for ensuring the interests of Norway in the north. Norway is a coastal state, and the northern part of the country is dependent on coastal and marine resources, but the sea is also a major transport route. In addition to oil and gas transport, the North Sea Route to Asia will present major environmental and maritime safety challenges. Here we have a lot of work to do in modernising the maritime infrastructure so that it can become part of the trans-European network. Today there are major discussions on oil and gas extraction in the north. Let's say it's so simple: oil and gas extraction in the north has come to stay! Hammerfest is experiencing a raging development and will continue in the years to come. With increased petroleum activity in the Barents Sea, we will create large growth impulses in the region. Norway must take an offensive line and take the lead in the development and exploitation of its petroleum resources in the Barents Sea. We can't wait to do that, as some parties think. It is absolutely necessary that we now be on the road and make the preparations for the environmental concerns that need to be taken care of. We are waiting for a management plan for the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea. It has been said to come in the spring of 2006. I look forward to Nordland VI and VII also being part of the test drilling process. For Nordic countries, this will be very important for the development of regional and local business. This applies not least to the supplier industry, but also to developments for local communities and regions. Finally, let's not forget what culture has meant and will mean in the future for the human values that lie in the cooperation of the northern regions. This cultural cooperation will have new relevance in a situation where the influence of other cultures will only increase and increase. There is a great deal of resources here, not least in the Sami culture, which must also be taken into account economically in the further work on the Northern Region policy. It can finally be raised to a national level. And this shall a red-green government know to take care of!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1288	There has been a lot of talk about oil and gas in the northern regions and the opportunities available in the northern regions. Yes, there are opportunities, but I must honestly say that I am not impressed by the efforts that have been made in this room in the northern areas so far in this period, and also the previous period, from which I have experience. It's a fact that you've had two search drills in this period. So if the government hits its chest and is proud of what has happened, then it's a fact that there hasn't exactly been a full party and a stormy jubilee in the Barents Sea in terms of test drilling and oil exploration. It can also be noted with interest that Minister of Environment Hareide is constantly finding new and creative ways to stop any activity in the Barents Sea. The last thing he came with was so-called environmental zones. Previously, petroleum-free zones have been used, and now the term “environmental zones” has been invented. It doesn't get any easier to get something when you have such a starting point. The same thing applies to the Left Party, which is going to be a guarantee against oil drilling in Lofoten. There is not much to testify about bets, which you talk so nicely about in this case. And in the case of the Workers' Party, they're nothing better. The last thing Olav Akselsen did before he puzzled himself out of the office when he was an oil and energy minister, was to close what he came over. He closed Northland VI and VII. I notice with interest that the Nordic representatives from the Workers' Party are flying up to the pulpit and want these reopened. In fact, Olav Akselsen will, because in the Official Journal of Bergen on 29 November 2003, he says that the government must be able to open itself up to drilling in the Nordland VI field – exactly the same field that he himself has been with and closed. It's showing a double communication. It's not just where the Workers' Party has a double communication. On 8 December 2003, the Progress Party promoted a proposal to open up drilling in allocated licences in the Barents Sea. The Labour Party voted against this. Two days later, the working party was out in the media and said that now we had to open up to these areas, so that you could have a test drilling. It's really a double communication that for me is quite difficult to grasp. And then even more double communication. The Progress Party and the Center Party agree on a comment in the vote to add Petroleum Control to Harstad. It is only we who are behind the remark, while the representatives of the Workers' Party are flying up the speaker's chair and saying that you have to get this as a matter, and that you have to get this to Harstad. Why is there a watertight bulkhead between the representatives on the northern bench and the large group of the Workers' Party? It's quite incomprehensible to me. I'm not going to spend so much time on the Center Party and SV, because they're against everything, just not using the oil money. But I have to ask myself the question: what do Russian authorities and Russian oil companies think about the double communication that is here in the hall and in the media, and about the will that exists to facilitate the situation? That will is gone. We have repeatedly put forward proposals, and each time these are voted down. It worries me a lot. One of the challenges facing Russia is to increase travel activity. Increasing tourism, boosting business activities and getting more together. HIV and AIDS and tuberculosis are threats that follow in that cold water. Therefore it is gratifying that the last weekend was organized a Mandela concert in Tromsø. Many highly profiled party leaders and the Prime Minister used the opportunity to get up and sung in the shine of that concert, whether you were in favour or against it. But I just want to give them a challenge: once the midnight sun has gone down and the lights on the cameras have gone out, it's important to have an engagement in that matter as well. I will also be allowed to take the opportunity to thank the ideas behind the Mandela concert in Tromsø, those who believed in the project, and not least the management who carried out the project. They should be given every possible reward for the job they've done. But that job shouldn't stop now. We should also focus on these issues in the future, because we need to have greater and closer cooperation with Russia in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1305	I need to comment briefly on some of the points raised in this debate. It is too tempting not to comment on the statements made by the representative Korsberg, criticising the pace and extent of the activity in the Barents Sea. Now most people in this room are concerned that the petroleum activity in the Barents Sea must take place within a sustainable environmental framework for environmental reasons. But the Progress Party should also be able to recognise that to have activity in the north, in the Barents Sea, it is also necessary to have activity within a sustainable environmental framework for political reasons. It's a confession to seek influence in politics, rather than to protest against what the other person does. Kristin Halvorsen was in his post concerned with green interests and green business in the north. I feel the need to clarify that a majority of the committee is also concerned about this. But you don't think of it as something that needs to be in place for oil and gas operations. A majority believe that green industry in the north can live alongside oil and gas activities, petroleum activity. There's nothing either-- or. Several representatives have referred to the development of Snow White, an extension that has taken place within the most stringent environmental frameworks in the world, and also in good dialogue and in good cooperation with the fishing interests of the region. Svalbard is basically also an example of one of Europe's last untouched natural areas, which we manage. Nevertheless, there is significant economic activity on Svalbard. But through a clear and clear exercise of authority on Svalbard, we are able to take care of several concerns at once, we are able to have economic activity on the premises of the environment. As short as possible of the transport corridor of Nikel–Churches. Among other things, the representative Jan Sahl addressed this, and the whole Foreign Affairs Committee asks for a detailed assessment to establish such a transport corridor. Here there are some challenges, not least there are different track widths on Norwegian and Russian railways. But the setting also says that this can be a connection that is relevant for the transport of Russian gas. Here I think it's actually more relevant with the transport of Russian oil for further deployment from the Kirkenes. The port capacity in Murmansk is, as many people know, limited. Nevertheless, growth in the Russian economy and increased maritime transport can open up new opportunities for both Norwegian shipping and transport. Otherwise, I would just like to point out in general that the Northern Territory Communication has created a debate that has engaged representatives in many of the Stortinge Committees. It is quite natural in the light of the multifaceted challenges we face, and I also believe that this debate has well anchored the Northern Region policy in our national Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1325	I just needed to comment on something the rapporteur said about this with a sustainable framework and the environment and political argument to be cautious. I just have to remind you that there has been oil and gas activity and test drilling in the Barents Sea since the 1980s. And then you could ask that question: what was the decision base when you started? I just want to remind you that you've been investigating environmental issues, impact assessment, for over $1 billion in the Barents Sea, so you're not standing here with completely blank sheets. But I think it's a fact that when you ask for an overall management plan, and you investigate the pole up and down, it's just to buy time on a difficult internal political issue in the government parties. The government parties are like that, but the situation doesn't get any better if you get a new government, because then you get the Labour Party, which is both for and against the same time, into government with the Swedish government, which is completely against it, and the Centre Party is a little too, but at least they're so much against it that it becomes completely impossible. So out of two bottoms, I pick the first one. Then I just want to make some personal comments about this disputed area, because when you are in contact with the industry and the oil companies, it is important to clarify this. I am aware that we cannot adopt a solution here, but at least we can ensure that the issue of disputed areas is at the top of the pile in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or where it may lie, and that we focus on trying to find some solutions, either permanently or in the short term, so that we have the possibility to have joint management in terms of oil and gas extraction. If we manage to do that, we will at least be involved and ensure that we can use Norwegian environmental standards; we can use the world's best environmental technologies. We can ensure that the Norwegian supplier industry is given the opportunity to do so. It will provide value creation in the region and throughout Northern Norway, and it will provide and secure a number of jobs. What disappoints me is that there is no suggestion from the other parties. There's going to be a lot of talk, and I'm asking myself that question: What about the follow-up? Why, at least, can we not have a majority in favour of the proposal for such a notification every two years? We get it in a number of other cases. The state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state comes every two years, and we have the oil and gas message coming every two years. Why can't we get a message in this particular area every two years, so that we actually see if the Government is able to deliver what the Storting is leading, and what the Storing might decide? It would have been an advantage. But if the government doesn't make such a message every two years, at least I will personally make sure to take it up again in some connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1334	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1350	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1366	The agreement between Norway and Eurojust for approval aims to strengthen cooperation in serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime. The fight against organised crime must be conducted both nationally and internationally. When we see that crime is increasingly becoming cross-border, then our actions to combat crime must also be. Unfortunately, there are no easy solutions. The fight against backers and sophisticated cross-border criminal networks is very demanding and difficult. That is why we need to have many different measures in several areas. In the EU, the fight against crime has been strengthened in recent years. Norway has close cooperation in the field of justice policy with the EU and the Member States. We cooperate actively to safeguard our interests. Norway is among others: part of EU police and criminal law cooperation through the Schengen acquis. We are involved in the Dublin cooperation on the treatment of asylum seekers, and we have concluded an agreement with the European Police Unit Europol. The extension of cooperation to include the work of the Public Prosecutor’s Office is in line with the Government’s goal of linking Norway more closely to cooperation on justice in the EU. Eurojust was established in 2002 as a cooperation body for the national public prosecutors in the EU countries. The purpose of Eurojust is to strengthen the fight against serious forms of international crime. Eurojust shall promote and improve coordination between Member States in the field of investigation and prosecution, inter alia. by facilitating mutual assistance in criminal and extradition matters. Eurojust shall also provide other support to increase the effectiveness of investigations and prosecution. The fight against terrorism is a priority field. The Eurojust acquis also opens up cooperation agreements with non-EU countries. As the first non-EU country, Norway uses this option through the agreement now negotiated between the Norwegian authorities and Eurojust. The Agreement shall strengthen cooperation between Norway and Eurojust in respect of serious forms of international crime, in particular organised crime. Cooperation covers the whole area of Eurojust’s competence. Cooperation will facilitate the investigation and resolution of major criminal cases involving discrimination in several countries. Through Eurojust, representatives from the prosecution authorities of the EU countries cooperate directly, enabling matters to be dealt with more quickly and more effectively. Eurojust is located in The Hague, and Norway aims at sending a State Attorney to the College in The Hague. The National Advocate in Norway will be at the heart of ongoing cooperation. Mutual exchange of information is a central element of cooperation between prosecutions. Much of the work will therefore consist of the exchange of information on persons suspected or intended for participation in serious crime. Important emphasis has been placed on rules to protect privacy and data protection in the contract. The Minister for Foreign Affairs replied by letter to questions from the Group of the Centre on the revision of the Agreement that: ‘this requires the mutual consent of the parties. An amendment to the Agreement will have to be dealt with in Norway in accordance with the rules applicable to the conclusion of the Treaties, which also regulate the participation of the Stortinge". The Minister of Foreign Affairs underlines the Government's wish that Norway participate in the fight against serious forms of international crime and terrorism at European level. The letter also stresses that Eurojust can only ask the other party to consider the necessary measures. The agreement is clear on the point where a Member State is not obliged to implement national measures. The attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1388	I will not contribute to extending the debate on this matter. I just want to point out that, with the conclusion of this agreement, our special form of non-voting membership of EU cooperation will be extended to an additional area. I think it is gratifying to open up that we can join, and it is gratifying that a unanimous foreign committee and a unanimous growing-up say yes to it. With regard to the justification, into which the rapporteur-in-chief has gone into detail, the setting states: ‘The Committee considers that when crime is cross-border, countermeasures and prosecution must also be organised in a cross-border committed cooperation.’ Commitment cooperation is an important recognition, and I also think we need to recognise that this applies in many other areas if we are to solve a number of other challenges, such as: on the environment. It is gratifying that the parties which normally do not take any opportunity to criticise or raise any dangers arising from cross-border obligatory cooperation, such as EU cooperation, are now joining this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1398	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1414	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1430	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1446	The announcement by the Government provides a good review of the 59th General Assembly of the United Nations. The report of the High Level Panel and the preparations for the summit, which will take place now in September, were indicative of the discussion both in plenary and in the committees. A number of high-profile events on the development side marked the opening of the general meeting. Among these was the summit on hunger and poverty, and the meeting on the social dimension of globalisation. These meetings focused on the need for new policy responses at global level to meet the challenges of globalisation. The position on development policy issues was pending in view of the status of the Millennium Development Goals this year. It is positive, as the Committee also stresses, that a resolution is adopted on the operational development activities of the United Nations. Equality issues were, if possible, even less on the agenda of this general debate than in the previous two years. The Committee considers it important that equality issues become a more central part of the general debate in the years to come and points out its comments in the call for the development Communication on the importance of prioritising the gender perspective in development policy. With regard to UN reform, the Committee has noted that the general debate made it clear that the composition of the Security Council needs to reflect today’s geographical realities better. The reform issues also marked the debate in the first committee. In this context, the Committee welcomes the invitation to Norway to continue its role as a facilitator of organisational issues in the context of the summit to take place in New York from 14 to 16. ==References== In March of this year, the UN Secretary-General presented the report ‘In Larger Freedom’, which includes: based on the report of the High Level Panel and the report of the UN Millennium Project, the so-called Sachs Report, on the status of achievement of the UN Millennium Goals. Kofi Annan's report makes important proposals for reform of the UN, including: in the field of security policy, in the social and economic fields and in the field of human rights. The Committee sees that the challenge now is to ensure that we actually get a reform of the UN, so that the organisation gets the necessary legitimacy and becomes more effective and better able to meet the challenges it faces. With regard to the reform process, the Committee considers that there is a need for greater transparency around the Norwegian positions. It is important that the Government gives room for public debate and involves civil society in the preparation of such important issues. We need to see civil society and organisations as important contributors to the public debate, both nationally and internationally. Organisations represent a corrective and complementary body to the authorities of the States and can thus make important contributions to the public debate on reform of the UN. Norwegian NGOs are also important representatives of Norwegian civil society in such international issues and debates. The Committee would also stress that in the ongoing process ahead of the summit, active action is needed to ensure the widest possible agenda and substance of the meeting. As the Committee refers to, we now have a historic opportunity to strengthen the UN and make it more effective. It is therefore important that the Norwegian side actively work, together with countries with which we have common interests, to achieve the widest possible reform of the UN. Norway is a strong supporter of the UN, and at a time when the need to strengthen the UN is so high on the agenda both nationally and internationally, we would therefore have hoped that it would have been possible to obtain a majority to ask the Government to investigate new sources of funding that could help strengthen the UN financially. Now that we're debating last year's UN General Assembly, where the opening was marked by a number of development events, I think it's appropriate to mention the historic agreement that the G8 finance ministers agreed on a few days ago. It was agreed to cancel the multinational debt of 18 of the world's poorest countries. It was an important decision. The international community continues to go both in the area of aid and trade, and it remains to be seen whether this decision, in total, leads to increased resource access from the rich to the poor, as the Minister of Development pointed out earlier today. But it is positive that the G8 countries have managed to agree on debt cancellation. The debt burden of many developing countries is so devastating that it contributes to the maintenance of poverty. With this decision, these countries can spend more of their money on development rather than on paying debts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1476	I am a little surprised at the Committee's reference to the debate on reforms in the UN, because from the wording, as they have been used, one can get the impression that the Government wants to keep positions to itself. At least I can take this opportunity to make sure that this is not the case at all. Rather, on the contrary, I think it is both important and desirable that we have a debate on these issues. Where we have had the opportunity, we have also participated in that debate. Now it must be admitted that it is not all the world's time since the UN Secretary-General presented what is now the basis for the debate, namely the report 'In Larger Freedom'. But we've been working on positions since that time, and I just want to very briefly tear up some of the points of view that I think are particularly important. The reform issues can mainly be divided into two parts: one part is reform of the Security Council, and then there is the large amount of other reforms proposed by the Secretary-General. When I divide this into two, it is because much of the debate has just been about the Security Council, and there is a danger that the debate on the Security Council will overshadow these other reform issues, which, in my view, are also very important. Therefore, there has been a point on the Norwegian side to focus perhaps the most on these other issues, so that they do not disappear and we lose the breadth of the reform debate that is. As far as the Security Council is concerned, I have to say that there is still a fairly open debate on this in the future. The size has discussed it a number of times, and it is well known that Norway wants a Security Council reform, that we want an extension of both permanent and non-permanent seats, and that we have been very sceptical about introducing some kind of semipermanent seats. What's perhaps the most important thing to hold on to right now is that we don't want any extension of the veto right. There are those countries that are now running as new permanent members of the Security Council, determined to soften their positions. I welcome that. It is very important that we insist that the right of veto should not be extended. With regard to the other questions, many are up, but there are three I think it is particularly important for Norway to engage. One concerns the so-called Peacebuilding Commission. It has already been met with great support, so that we can be sure that it will be part of the decision for the harvest. The reason why we should continue to work on it is that we will do a lot of work to figure out a form of work that makes it useful. There we should put more effort into it. The second issue concerns the organisation of human rights work. Bringing in a Human Rights Council I think will be an important reform, but it must be done in such a way that not all of the problems of the current organisational pattern are taken into account. It'll probably take a lot more thinking, I guess. The third question concerns the whole issue of the duty to protect, i.e. the duty to protect where there is a risk of genocide, a risk of major and dramatic abuse. There is also a debate where there are very many different views. But I think it is important to point out the Security Council's duty to intervene. The obligation of the Security Council to be proactive, to be organised to become proactive, should be an important Norwegian contribution to the debate. I am fully aware that this is not the time to start a long debate on a UN reform. But not least on the basis of the referrals from the committee, I hope it is admitted that I used some words on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1497	On a day that today is all forgiven.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1500	It's good to know, going up to the pulpit, President. Quite briefly, the case rapporteur referred to the minority comment on international taxation and financing mechanisms. I'm not going to go very far into it, but just remember that it's not more than two weeks since we had a Document No. Eighteen proposals in the Chamber for debate, and we discussed it quite thoroughly. The government side and the majority agreed that this is a topic that one would like to see the Government on behalf of Norway taking part in the debate and investigation into the United Nations. But we disagreed with the rapporteur's view that this is an investigative work to be done here at home. The disagreement went on that. Otherwise – as in the past – we are very concerned that such a debate should not be a cover-up to the basic premise of making industrialised countries comply with their 0.7 pst. requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1509	I think it's a very bad thing that the government parties don't have a more open attitude to investigating and working at home on how to strengthen the UN financially. It is not that the investigation and assessments of how this is to be done are necessarily what is going to be the international outcome. But the fact that someone at all won't take up that problem, I think is very sad. It's sad that one doesn't take a more open and inclusive attitude on such an important question. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a brief statement on the Norwegian positions on the important reform of the UN. Perhaps we should have had a slightly larger debate on such an important issue. I noticed that he believed that the dialogue with the Norwegian NGOs was now on a good track. If that's the case, it's very happy, because it's been perceived at an earlier stage as being a lot of secrecy, and it's been difficult to get into dialogue with the ministry. If it's now settled and the dialogue's good, nothing's better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1516	Now the President's forgiveness is starting to go on and on. However, let me say that what I meant by the desire for openness, does not apply primarily in relation to the organisation. This is true in relation to the public debate in Norway. I think it's very important that everyone engages, and that it becomes as wide as possible. I haven't been particularly in touch with the NGOs in this area, but I expect them to feel like others at least there are enough positions to take hold of. We have also given some talks on this, so it will be possible to go back and check some of the positions. I want to add that it is also important to be in dialogue with other countries, and not least the so-called Human Security Network, in which Norway has enjoyed participating, is now focusing on some aspects, particularly on the human rights side. So we're trying to build alliances to get results in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1525	This with funding has been discussed earlier this year, and it is of course important that the UN has funding. I was so inspired by the up-to-date information provided by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I believe that if we are to get people in Norway to be interested in the United Nations, there must be something that is real, so that people believe that here we can hunt for reforms, for example. in the Security Council. We could, for example, suggest that any new country to enter could have a moratorium that they should not have veto rights for a certain number of years. What's the last thing that happens in this very important debate? If we get into real political reforms, the debate can actually start going out among people as well, then just let us not have him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1532	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2947]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1549	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2947]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1565	In 2004, there was a general decline in exports to several of the traditional beneficiaries of Norwegian defence equipment. The value of the total exports of weapons and military equipment in 2004 was slightly above NOK 2 billion, slightly above NOK 3 billion in 2003. In particular, the beneficiaries of defence equipment from Norway were NATO member countries, as well as Sweden and Finland. Weapon exports can be measured in crowns and ears or bullets and powder, and which countries receive such exports, but the problem is not that simple. As long as potentially unstable countries, groups or individuals hold weapons and are willing to use them, Norway and allies should also have the opportunity to defend themselves. You have to want a better world and peace on earth, but it doesn't keep asking the parties in a conflict to keep peace, but it's also the will of the world community to use, if necessary, power to stop fighting acts that go against innocent people. It's not that easy that the world is being kind and good just to stop dealing with weapons or to limit it strongly. An overall committee is pleased that the notification is now more detailed than previous notifications and that an examination of the export control legislation has been carried out in 2004, leading to a number of amendments to the export control regulations. The Committee is also pleased that, in the context of its Communication of the Year, a number of measures have now been put in place to increase information and transparency on exports of defence equipment. This is important in order to avoid suspecting these exports. This review has also been important with a view to strengthening the control of terrorism. It is important to have better control over exports of sensitive goods and technologies and services that can be used for terrorist purposes. Today, there is a development in which one does not know what an enemy or terrorist will use in his struggle to achieve a goal. But it must not prevent us from doing what can be done, in order to prevent conventional weapons and ammunition from getting into the hands of people who want to kill to achieve a goal. We are also facing people and groups who cynically employ new technologies to produce weapons for the purpose of hitting innocent people. The time we knew where the enemy was is over, but it must not make us see ghosts in every hook. It is important to take precautions, and that we become more careful about who we sell weapons to. It is a saying that ‘no longer has peace than the neighbour will’, and this is what one has to deal with, whether it is politics, religion, tribes, peoples, poor and rich or fighting for land and water. An ever-increasing population and the difference between poor and rich do not make the situation brighter. The Committee welcomes the fact that the regulatory changes on arms exports aim to simplify legislation and make it more adapted to current challenges. These changes aim to strengthen the control of all goods, including goods not on the checklists, to countries which are under arms embargo adopted by the UN Security Council. Multilateral export control in recent years has become an increasingly important tool to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the building of conventional military capacity that could threaten stability and security in an area. It is therefore gratifying that most developed countries, and hence the largest suppliers of sensitive goods and technology, participate in the cooperation. In this context, it is important to exchange relevant information, with the development of control lists of goods and technology relevant in the context of terrorism. The Committee is also pleased that intensive work is now under way with a view to strengthening international cooperation to prevent terrorists from accessing chemical, biological or production and dissemination equipment precursors. Many of the armed conflicts in the world are becoming more bloody and prolonged through the supply of smuggled weapons, especially those that are easy to make, hidden and easy to smuggle, including explosives. What is also worrying is that there is a quantity of unregistered and illegal weapons that pose a serious problem in conflict areas, particularly in countries with unstable governance and in countries with civil war. This is a global security problem. It is therefore important to develop measures against illicit arms trafficking, including: better border control against countries in conflict. Export control and illicit international trade in small arms are current issues in the UN, EU, OSCE and Wassenaar cooperation. The Committee welcomes the adoption of substantive guidelines to strengthen the control of handgun deliveries by participating countries and to facilitate arms supply. In the autumn of 2003, the UN General Assembly decided to launch negotiations in 2004 on an international agreement on the marking and tracing of small arms, which, in the Committee's view, would improve the control of these types of weapons. The Committee also considers that the removal of unregistered weapons must be part of international cooperation. Therefore, it is gratifying that Norway has carried out the collection of unregistered and illegal weapons, which, in addition to terror, can also be used for criminal activities, and we hope that other countries will follow the example. It is also important that Norwegian military weapons stocks are better secured, for example. to use mountain storage to a greater extent. Finally, the party of progress is of the opinion that the real threat today is not the one we associate with conventional weapons, but the weapons you can't see, and you don't know where. I am thinking here of fanatical groups, who, in order to achieve their objectives, might think of using nuclear, chemical and bacteriological weapons and explosives that hit largely innocent people. They don't care to get a say in their case, no matter what it may be. Therefore it is better to be led was than for quick. But the most dangerous thing is to close your eyes and hope that everything is okay when we open them again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1603	What has happened internationally, the last time we discussed this matter, is that there have been initiatives from the United Kingdom that they will probably support Arms Trade Treaty – ATT – i.e. a weapons convention. I'm not going to start that debate in any way, but I think what happened last time we had that debate here in the house is interesting. We will come back to this from the SV side, and we hope, of course, to receive support from the other parties and, of course, from the Government that getting to an international arms convention is an important work. The last numbers from the Swedish Institute SIPRI also show that we are in a way going in the wrong direction. It is produced and it is sold more weapons than ever, even though I have also registered that the weapons store in Norway has fallen so far in the last year. I'm not going to start a debate on it, but there's at least work going on on the Arms Convention. We can see that in the Swedish version that we will have to deal with more thoroughly later here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1610	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2947]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1626	I guess the minority will take up and justify their proposal, so I won't comment on that. I will just give a brief explanation of the reasons why the majority of the committee, all except the representatives of the Progress Party, is in favour of rejecting Document No. The 8th proposal. It's after Norwegian constitution so that it's the King, i.e. the government, which has full and complete responsibility for foreign and security policy, and it is the Stortinget that is usually responsible for correcting the government, supporting it or opposing it, all because the elected representatives believe that the government presents is adequate for the Norwegian needs or not. One can get the impression that the proposers believe that there is a general lack of foreign policy debate in Norway and that there is a special lack of foreign policy debate in the UK. It is according to my concepts as far away from the actual conditions as it is possible to get. There is no area where the government communicates more forcefully in relation to the Storting than in this area. Firstly, we have our own consultative body, where the government continuously consults the Stortingen in the process towards the position on Norway's behalf in important international negotiations. Secondly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs makes regular general statements on foreign policy for the Stortinget, and the Stortinget has a completely open and free, even unlimited, debate. There is hardly any other matter in Stortinget. Then it becomes quite unreasonable to make the claim that there is a lack of treatment of foreign policy issues politically. Nor is it part of the Norwegian state practice to develop policies either on behalf of the government or on behalf of the Storting through party-groups, or selections composed of interest groups in the Norwegian community, combined with research environments, organisations or other sizes. It is of course the case that the government is making continuous use of the available expertise in Norwegian research environments. It was just supposed to be missing. It is also the case that the government always communicates with the heavy players, for example. in the case of Norwegian business, in respect of the international pursuit of the interests of Norwegian business. In the same way, of course, the parties in this house make use of the skills they believe you need before they outsource the parties' policies both here in the Chamber and in the programme work carried out by the political parties. All of this is, in my opinion, an adequate response to the wishes of the proposers. The answer is that competence is exploited. The general public debate is present. The parties of the Great Britain have a separate responsibility to develop their foreign policy and priorities, because, in my opinion, the main argument against the idea of a selection to develop Norwegian foreign policy is that it shifts the purely political task of prioritising all the good purposes. That's what politics is about. It cannot be ‘outsource’ either from the Storing or from the Government, because then both magnification and government really become superfluous. It must be the political parties' own responsibility, whether in the government position or in opposition in the Storting, to do as robust work on foreign and security policy as in other policy areas, and it must be the political parties' own responsibility, at their own expense and risk, to do the priorities in this area. It would, in my view, create very unfair responsibilities if collapse and government were to start serving such a model as this, because it would have strong corporate features, which would be directly contrary to what is the basic principles of the Norwegian democratic state.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1643	I understand that the proposal that we have made, to the extent that has aroused some reactions, perhaps not the greatest debate, but nevertheless so strong reactions that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik saw the need, through the VG on 23 April, to ask me to draw up the proposal. It was strange to read that message through the VG. I would have liked to have thought that the government was dealing with the treatment in Stortinget and did not go through the media that way. I felt a need to say this. I found it a little tidy on the part of the Prime Minister. We're interested in getting a more general discussion about what kind of foreign policy we're going to have, what priorities, what leads. We recognise, of course, that we have foreign policy debates, not least in this room, look and often — often good debates — but they are often limited to the subject area concerned, or the issues that lie in the air internationally. The big debate on Norwegian foreign policy and long-term priorities, and the priorities perhaps in the shorter term, is not a debate we feel that we are often part of, but it is possible that we have a problem in this way. We'll see about that. We also note that in other important areas, tax policy, pension issues, etc., it is not unusual to ask outside input for these processes and choices. This does not mean depriving a government of the responsibilities of these bodies. It's not about outsourcing. We also record that there has been a debate, not least in ours, which was, of course, driven by the tragic tsunami disaster, where there have also been recordings of this. I'll be allowed to make some of these recordings to light up a little bit of the debate that's going on outside this house, and maybe outside the government offices as well. In the evening post on January 8, this year, Nils Morten Udgaard had a comment. When he talks about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he says that ‘The clarity of the target has become more and more impaired. It is also a consequence and a contribution to the diffusion of foreign policy itself.’ You might disagree with this, but at least that's a point of view. He continues that there is a «lack of priority – among politicians». We wanted to contribute to such a priority debate. In a chronicle in Dagbladet on February 3rd this year, Janne Haaland Matlary has a recording where she writes: ‘We have a tradition of pragmatic foreign policy adaptation without strategic analysis. The slogan is to ‘manage’ incoming ‘problems’ only when they occur or to ‘do something operational’. However, tactics and operationalisation are of little use without strategy.’ This is again an input from a person who has well documented his understanding of foreign policy. Researcher Nils Holme writes in a line in the Evening Post on April 28th this year: ‘If the tsunami crisis were to lead to something good, it must be the search light directed in the process towards the main tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the way in which they were done. Nils Morten Udgaard points out that the U.D. has prioritised peace mediation and other activities on behalf of other peoples to the extent that our own Norwegian interests seem to come second. He called for a certain return to the ‘political substance’ of foreign policy.’ I will be allowed to conclude this round of quotations with an article by two researchers at NUPI, Nina Gräger and Halvard Leira, who wrote in a discussion paper in Dagbladet on 10 April this year: ‘We believe that the problem is more about the lack of overall and clearly defined thinking around Norwegian foreign policy.’ What I'm trying to elucidate is that there's been a debate out there. It's a debate. There are several people who point out that maybe you should have sat down and done some work here. So it could be that the sample form that we're proposing is disc bombs. That's what you're saying. But I haven't seen anyone else come in to handle this in any other way. So it was interesting to go back and read the book that Bjørn Tore Godal joined in 2003 «Outlooks – Big Little Norway in a New World». Here writes Bjørn Tore Godal: ‘However, the entirely systematic attempts at a comprehensive discussion of Norwegian foreign policy are quite rare. The last government and Storting took on the roof and carried out something like this, was just at the entrance of the epoch I describe in this book. In Stortingsbericht nr. 11 [[1989-90]] This message provided the basis for a more general strategy and was widely endorsed by the Stortinget. I have no illusion that it is our criticism of the diplomacy of aid and of the diplomacy of peace that will necessarily win. But I think it would have been good to get it anchored in Stortinget. I am a little surprised when you consider that everything is very well and that, to some extent, you do not see that the need we point out can be there, that at least you have the respect for the proposal. I understand that you don't think this is the right way to go, but I don't see, as I said, that you come up with concrete ideas about how this could be handled differently and better. The form we have is an enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, there are presentations in the Chamber, and that's what you should continue to have – without taking the more general debate that we are calling for. We'll get back to that when we meet again – hopefully – after the election. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1690	The representative of Morten Höglund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1693	The Central Party agrees with the Progress Party that a major debate in Norway on the road choices we make in foreign policy is desirable and the choices we can make in foreign policy. We do not at all agree with all the premises underlying the document under consideration, but we think it is good that the debate should be raised, and that we also make representations on how we can get this kind of debate on the road choices up. When you listen to the representative, you get the impression that the world is static, but it's actually not like that. International cooperation is undergoing major changes. The world appears unstable in many respects. It is a fact that the traditional distinction between domestic and foreign policy is increasingly being expanded. That is why we believe that it is a wise idea to invite a wide debate on Norwegian foreign policy. And there's a need. For us in the Center Party, it might seem like we're on a promontory when it comes to international law. We need a debate on how to deal with aspects of international law in the future. We definitely need a debate on how to take advantage of the space we have in relation to the EU to mention something. It is true, as the proposers say, that in most policy areas analyses and recommendations are made by a grouping of people – recommendations that come to the political environment – and then it is maritimely the political environment that deals with this and draws its conclusions. In this way we have had a good example here in the hall today. It is certainly true that the Orheim Committee's setting has been useful for the work that has been done in Northern Region policy. I think it is very wise to facilitate a wide-ranging debate on the road choices in Norwegian foreign policy, and to seek help in those environments where you have great knowledge, to create a starting point for that debate. But then the point is that it must be up to the government to initiate such a process, and therefore we cannot support the proposal that lies here from the Progress Party. There's no point in trekking this down your head on a government, this is what the government has to figure out. But in what I say, there is also a clear recommendation: it is wise thoughts that lie in the proposal for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1704	I interpret the posts of the representative, Høglund, so that even he is not very strong in the belief that the proposal that has been made is in the middle of the flash, to say it with an understatement. I think that's fair and proper. However, it was from Høglund's side a description of what is the state of play regarding the treatment of foreign policy in the Stortinget, which I think was so incomplete that it needs to be corrected. Høglund said it's right that we have general foreign policy statements from the Council of State at regular intervals, and that's good and good. And it's right that there's a consultation body, and that's good and good. And we have a number of single things, and that's all right. But what he then forgets is that during the last six months, the Stortinget has only been presented with several very important big business messages and related basic work. Most recently, we have used most of today to deal with such a communication, which has been drawn up on the basis of expertise, competence and usual political processes, where the Government is flagging its priorities and its views – in this case in the North Region policy. A similar even wider and comprehensive debate has been held on the whole of development and aid policy, which is another very central issue of Norwegian foreign policy. If one ignores this, the picture becomes directly misleading, and then the justification for the proposed proposal also becomes correspondingly weak. Then, for a moment, I had some doubts about whether the Central Party really belonged to the majority in the committee position or actually supported the minority in the committee. After all, I understood that the country was finally said to be part of the majority in the position, but with a purely formalistic justification. It surprises me a little, I have to say, because it may happen when basic debates on foreign policy choices and priorities are called for, as the representative Haga did, that the reason for the announcement is that one simply did not participate in the important debates we have had in the House on road choices, at the latest the very extensive debate on the Government's agreement with Sweden and Finland on a joint EU action force. As far as I remember, the representative Haga was not in the hall at all when the important choice was dealt with. So, finally, the reason why I think, for my part, that the idea of a public body, reduced by either government or magnificence, for the purpose that the proposers want, is that this is not just about a partial investigation. It is not a matter of special competence, but it is the most comprehensive of all, namely the overall profile of Norwegian foreign policy. Of course, it is right to listen to all the voices, including those quoted by the representative Höglund – that should be lacking, that is why we have a public debate – but there is no reasonable reason to invite the participants in the public debate to sit together in a selection of priorities. It is and will be the cursed duty of the political parties – I had almost said. You can, for example. start by deciding to have an opinion of Norwegian membership of the EU. It would be a good start.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1719	Yes, it was «closely said».
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1722	Yes, it is our duty to have opinions and opinions and to highlight the course of Norwegian foreign policy, but we therefore think it would be a good idea to draw these forces from the outside. The representative's salary almost implied that I did not believe on my own proposal. You can't make a suggestion to reduce a sample to a principle or not. I think there are several ways to that goal, and the aim here is, after all, important, to get the cross-sectoral debate. I think there's different ways to get to it. Until I see other proposals that I think can be good in that way, I think the proposal that we have made, at least is a constructive input, and the best input I have seen in that way. I am sorry that I did not mention the message in particular. We had a good discussion around the Northern Territory Communication, so all credit for it having arrived, but it is nevertheless sector-oriented, so it does not take into account what was our appeal point, namely to get the overall debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1731	The representative of the Wage says to my great amazement that the Centre Party is resigning from the major foreign policy debates in this Chamber. Then I simply have to ask that the salary clarify what it is he means. What are the major foreign policy debates that he believes the Central Party has signed up for? Now it's the way in the Central Party, I don't know what it's like in the Right, but it's the way in the Central Party that we actually think about the same things, whether it's a parliamentary leader who's having a debate, or whether it's a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee who's having a debate. And Inge Wohnning will live in confidence that when our parliamentary leader, Marit Arnstad, addresses the issue of the EU's battle groups in this Chamber, it is an expression of the views of the Centre Party, including mine. I understand that it doesn't necessarily work the same way in the right. We're going to have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1743	I have listened to the debate, but I am not quite sure if I can get hold of it, because it does not take into account, firstly, that the representative, Mr Höglund's document, No. Eight proposals, of course, involve much more than the debate that has been going on so far. And the issues that have not now been raised in the debate may also be the main weaknesses of this Document No. The 8th proposal. I think it is deserving that we do not go round about that part of it, but I just want to point out that there is one important aspect to this debate. When it comes to the Norwegian foreign policy debate in general, I think it is very important that no myths about the myth are now created that a thorough foreign policy debate is not taking place in Norway. It is clear that a lot of research is being done in Norway. There's a lot of writing in research environments. What is written often forms the basis for debate, and it is enough that politicians can direct the debates only to a limited extent. Here we are in many ways admitted both that there are media that are willing to take it, and that there are people who are willing to participate in it, but I have not experienced any political parties that are particularly hard to pray about participating in foreign policy debates. We are now in the process of purchasing for a four-year cycle where the batches have just carried out their thorough programme processing, where they have just taken the overall grip on what they think should be the country's foreign policy. And that's the overall grip that's about to be tested in the election that's coming. So here we've had a lot of thinking and a lot of debate. Now that we have a debate here in the Chamber that is based almost on the premise that nothing is being debated, it becomes quite peculiar. And once we've been given examples at this meeting's opening, that's a debate that just assumed that we asked scientists to come up with a few points of view, it turned out that even that part of reality isn't confirmed by what's actually happening out there. So we've also used professionals to provide us with a basis for the debate. But the fact that you don't have an overall grip, I'm going to reserve myself against that. There's something the parties really take on the greatest seriousness, and that's why we've been briefed as we have, because we believe in the ongoing debate that is, we have a good grasp of what the main priority must be. It is also quite instructive that in the setting all parties give a powerful response to the opinion of the Progress Party on how the priority is. That is precisely what the Committee is responding to in the committee position, and that is an expression of both the thought and the existence of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1757	Debates on whether a debate is taking place are rarely the most rewarding debates. However, the nature and justification of the proposal makes it necessary, because the whole proposal is based on the assumption that there is no qualified foreign policy debate in the Grand Duchy, and therefore such an initiative must be taken. I asked for the floor just to reply to the representative Haga. The reason I did that was because she herself, in her speech, complained that there was no debate about important foreign policy choices. I think it was close to remembering that we had such a debate a very short time ago in Stortinget, and even about a road choice that her own party prioritises more than anything else, if I have understood correctly, that is, the fight against obliging Norwegian cooperation with the EU on security and foreign policy issues. Then I allowed myself to suggest that the explanation that she lacks a debate on road choices may have been that she did not find the opportunity to be present. It is all the more striking, since she, as a party leader, wrote in the country's largest newspaper just before that debate took place in the Stortinget, that the majority of parties in this Chamber are acting unconstitutional – that is a very strong accusation – by making the foreign policy choices that this is about. Among the parties that were accused of this is the party that she herself has advertised that she wants to cooperate with in government, and that makes it even more eye-catching. It is generally assumed that if elected voters act in breach of the Constitution, it should be subject to a national court action. In any event, it is common to assume that the person who considers it to be unlawful is justified. That's what I pointed out, it'll be quite striking when you don't find any reason to justify it, doesn't think there's any reason to participate at all in the debate on that choice, and then after that, there's a debate on choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1766	It should really not be necessary to take this post, but now I think it is time to ask the representative's salary to think and take a break. The representative on the payroll in his previous post was simply accusing the centre party of not being interested in an international debate because Åslaug Haga was not in the hall. It was a debate following a presentation by the Minister of Defence, who signed as a defence-policy spokeswoman. It was a debate which the Central Party took part in with its parliamentary leader. I did not see the Right parliamentary leader for a moment in the Chamber that day, but I could not for that reason dream of accusing the Right of not being interested in the debate that took place in the Chamber. Now it's time to take it easy!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1775	This debate was an extremely important foreign and security policy debate. It was marked by the fact that all the other parties in this room defined it as just that, a foreign policy debate. Then it becomes a little special when the party that didn't define it this way then, obviously, is calling for a fundamental debate on foreign policy choices. I would assume that you can agree whether you are sitting in one or another department on the Stortinget, or have one or other title, that it is the content of the matter and how you prioritise the importance of the content of the matter, it is about that. I have not registered that the Right parliamentary leader has called for debate. On the other hand, the leader of the Centre Party has done so, even in a completely demonstrative way. That is when I think it must be allowed to put back the expectation that in the debates that are actually taking place priority is given to participation, and especially when the majority of the majority in the Grand Duchy has been accused of acting unconstitutional to the Norwegian public just before the bigotry debate in question. Then, according to my concepts, you owe it to me to justify the position where it belongs: in the Stortinget, and not in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1782	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2947]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1798	The question of making 24 October, the UN Day, an official flag day in Norway for the 60th anniversary of the UN was put on the map in a Document No. Eight motions for resolutions, document Nos. 8:78. I have also registered the involvement in the matter both inside and outside the Wall of the Storting. The proposal focuses on the key role played by the UN for international peace and security, and the Committee points out that Norway should continue to have a very strong commitment to the UN. The issue of making UN Day an official flag day will, according to the Committee, be a good symbolic way of marking the Norwegian UN exposure. The letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs informed the Committee that the flag regulation of 21 October 1927 is under review. The majority of the Committee supports the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the fact that it would be premature to introduce a fixed flag day before this audit work has been completed. Whereas it was not possible to unite the Committee into a common position when the matter was referred to it, it has subsequently been possible to reach a common position on the Annex to the Protocol. I would therefore recommend a proposal which will be presented in this Chamber later. I expect that the issue of the UN Day as an official flag day will be raised in the context of the audit work, and that the matter will be clarified in such a way that a good decision can be made when that time comes. Furthermore, the Committee is pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will consider recommending State activities as a separate flag on 24 October of this year, indicating that the UN is 60 years old in 2005. In the view of the Committee, Norway will be able to mark the 60th anniversary of the United Nations in a worthy and symbolic manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1815	I do not promote the proposal of the minority in the vote, but I am promoting a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. That is proposal No. 2, which has been distributed, and that is that Document No. The 8 proposal will be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1820	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, has put forward the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1823	As the rapporteur said, it has been an commitment both outside and within this house, earlier, and now also this year, to get the UN Day as official flag day, to mark the international importance of the United Nations. Among other things, the United Nations has been committed to this issue. That is why, as one of the proposers, I was committed to bringing together a broad political majority behind such a proposal, and politicians from various parties were contacted to stand behind. When the representatives from the government parties together with SV were behind the proposal, I was therefore optimistic about the fact that a majority here in the Stortinget would express a clear willingness towards the Government to do what was necessary in order for the UN day from this year onwards to appear on the list of official Norwegian flag days. In the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that we are discussing today, an overall committee expresses the fact that the United Nations plays a central role in international peace and security, and the Committee agrees with the proposers that it is important to bring the global perspective into Norway's 100th anniversary of maritime stability and Union resolution. An overall committee also expresses the joy of making the UN Day an official flag day would be a good symbolic way of marking Norway’s UN exposure. An overall committee also requests that, in the ongoing work on the revision of the flag regulation, it be considered that the UN Day be introduced as an official flag day, expressing its agreement that there will be a special flag on 24 October of this year, thus indicating that the UN is now celebrating its 60th anniversary in 2005. These are opinions and attitudes I fully share. However, despite all these positive comments from an overall Foreign Affairs Committee, the majority of the Committee, all except SV, concludes in the present position that the proposal is rejected – a conclusion which, as I see it, is very little in line with the positive comments in the vote. That's why I'm very happy that all the parties in this room now for the twelfth hour seem to have gathered on the proposal that Bjørn Jacobsen has just made, which is based on that Document No. The 8th motion is appended to the minutes. It also has the consequence that SV does not promote its primary proposal, a request proposal, which is included in the vote, as Jacobsen also explained. By the fact that the proposal is now annexed to the Protocol, the clear will of the Storting, as expressed in the comments of a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs, will have to be of great importance to the conclusion of the Ministry in the revision of the current flag regulation. My legitimate hope is therefore that we will see that it will be flagged both from public buildings and from private flag bars on the UN day of the harvest, and that this will also happen every year on 24 October.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1832	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2947]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1848	It is a very important theme, SV, which is addressed in its document proposal. If we are to achieve sustainable development, we must do something about deforestation and illegal logging. The extraction of tropical timber is far from safe. At least 150 000 km2 of rain forest disappears each year. According to FAO, the rainforest has decreased by 10-12 pst. annual since 1990. Illegal maximum is the main reason. The placing on the market of illegally harvested timber in tropical rainforests leads to loss of biodiversity and prevents countries from combating poverty. Norway must take its share of the responsibility for not disappearing from the rainforest. The government has previously asked all departments to stop buying tropical timber that is not environmentally certified. It is therefore very unfortunate that state buildings used tropical wood in the National Museum’s exhibition facilities at Tullinøkka. It shows that we need better and more effective control over the import of tropical timber. The Minister of Modernisation has now reinvigorated this. The industry has also been recommended to follow the example of the country, but many have failed to follow it. Voluntary measures alone are not considered sufficient in the fight to reduce the harvest and use of tropical timber. The Ministry of the Environment is therefore examining the legal instruments involved in reducing the use of wood from threatened rainforests in Norway. This is to be done within the framework of our own law and international obligations. The Minister for the Environment has promised to take concrete action and will carefully assess all alternatives. In a press release on 13 May 2005, the Council of State states that one will investigate what other countries are doing, and that in this context it is natural to take a closer look at the measures taken by Germany. In this context, strict measures were recently proposed to combat the import of illegally harvested timber. The Ministry has also had a meeting with the Rain Forest Fund to discuss the matter in more detail. The aim is to identify instruments that can reduce the use of wood from threatened rainforests. Later, businesses and other actors will also be invited into the work. In particular, importers and dealers of rainforest timber and rainforest products shall be given the opportunity to meet for greater acceptance and digestion to stop imports of illegally harvested and unsustainable tropical timber. In the proposal for the new Nature Diversity Act, the Biodiversity Law Committee proposes to introduce a general authorisation to regulate the introduction of endangered species where this is provided for in legal agreements Norway has acceded to. This will also include tropical timber. As both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have explained earlier, the path to an import ban or other restriction is challenging. The WTO International Trade Code sets strict limits on what Norway can do by national measures. National measures for the placing on the market of timber must be non-discriminatory, verifiable and consistent with our obligations under the WTO Agreement. An overall committee believes that the Government must also take the initiative to work internationally to find bilateral and multilateral solutions that ensure legal and sustainable forestry. The government is currently doing this bilaterally to timber-exporting countries, in cooperation with the EU through the EEA Agreement. A new agreement on tropical timber is now being worked on in Geneva. The Norwegian requirements here are that in a new negotiated agreement, new environmental and social requirements must be taken into account, including work on the certification of timber, measures against illegal logging and trade, as well as for indigenous people and workers’ rights. It is important to stress that measures considered to prevent the placing on the market of illegally harvested timber should not inadvertently affect poor countries engaged in sustainable forestry with timber exports as an important source of income. I also refer to the treatment of this theme in the Inner. S. No 228 for 2004-2005, from the Committee on Energy and the Environment, on the Government's environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and the state of the state of the state of the state. S. No 122 for 2002-2003, by the Foreign Affairs Committee, on environmental certification of timber and timber. Finally, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, I would like to raise the proposal that has been distributed in this Chamber today, that Document No. 8:79 is appended to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1877	The representative Lars Rise has taken up the proposal he referred to, and then the president expects the suspension to lapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1880	The President is starting to get tired of me, because this is the second time today that I'm going to draw a proposal from a minority, and I am doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1885	It's just driving! It can end well, it can. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 2947]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1895	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e1963	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e2120	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to appoint a wide-ranging selection to address the foreign policy challenges facing Norway and to propose priorities and establishment of Norwegian foreign service to meet these challenges.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e2146	During the debate, Bjørn Jacobsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The president noted that the SV proposal included in the setting was not included. In the case of the distributed proposal, the proposal for a decision will be replaced. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:78 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-15.ana.ud2566e2167	During the debate, Mr Rise put forward a proposal, No. 3, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The President would also draw attention to the fact that the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party, which is included in the setting, have not been recorded. Proposal No. 3 replaces the proposal for a decision. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:79 [[2004-2005]]
