ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e49	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Heidi Grande Røys. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e71	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e78	The Judicial Committee has been brought together in relation to the main points of this case. It concerns the automatic renewal and transfer of insurance. It is important for individuals to be sure that a person does not remain without insurance cover because the insurance has ceased without having been made sufficiently aware of this and therefore has the possibility to do something about his or her own insurance cover. Standing without insurance cover can have major consequences for the person concerned. It is therefore important for insurance to provide cover until it is made clear that it will cease to exist. If insurance is to be limited in time, this must be made very clear so that there is no room for ignoring it. With regard to the possibility of relocating insurance, this should be extended. This is important for the optimum functioning of competition. If you can move your insurance policies, it would also be natural for you to become more aware of the price between the main events. The requirement that customers who do not want to be there should be forced to continue their customer relationship appears to be unfortunate. In particular, it is unfortunate if there is no longer trust between the parties. The Party considers it important to protect consumers and their rights to relocate their insurance. A purely declaratory rule could quickly be illusory in consumer relations to the extent that standard contracts are used for insurance purposes. That is why, together with the other parties, we will support a preseptical rule regarding consumers. A question to which the Committee is not grouped is whether or not a freedom of contract should be granted to traders or not in respect of the possibility of agreeing that insurance should cover an entire and limited period of time. This freedom of contract is only the party that wants to give the traders. This has to do with the fact that the individual trader here should have the opportunity to agree on what is most appropriate. We will also show that preventing Norwegian traders from agreeing binding periods with Norwegian insurance companies could lead to a greater use of non-resident insurance. In this context, one should note that it would be relatively easy for traders to take advantage of insurance brokerage, and in such a way insurance abroad. Another point is that such insurance can also be provided by a branch office established by a Norwegian insurance company, for example. in another EEA country. The progress party had preferred that the insurance should be purchased as far as possible in Norway and that the contracts should be determined in accordance with Norwegian law. In any case, the new rules on the transfer of insurance will have an effect over a period of time on contracts concluded under current rules, but also applicable in time after the entry into force of new laws. Not least, one in some accident insurance policies will see that there are seasonal variations for risk assessment purposes. An example is car insurance, as there is obviously more risk of collisions in some parts of the year than in others. In order for insurance contracts to take up the new legal regime relating to the exchange of insurance for an otherwise agreed period, the majority of the Committee considers that it is important to clarify the date of entry into force at such an early stage that one of the contracts may be governed by the new rules. This is not least important for contracts which have a maturity covering both current and future legislation. I'll mention our suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e106	The representative, André Kukkestad, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e109	I'm just going to comment briefly on the question that goes about the transfer of insurance. The Labour Party sees it as facing quite major consumer policy challenges, among other things. banking and insurance in Norway, and it is important, inter alia, for consumers to benefit from increased competition in this field. opening up so that insurance can now be transferred during the period. What has been shown is that reference is made to the principal maturity of the insurance, has largely slowed down the ability of the consumer to control the cost of the insurance, how the conditions work, and not least take the consequences of it if one feels dissatisfied with one company and wants to go into another. I would venture the claim that many of the rules that we have now actually contributed to slowing down many of the benefits that consumers would have had from having given free competition a real content. That is why I am pleased with the Regeringa proposal, and I think that it is good, also that you go so far not only in relation to the consumers, but also to the sole proprietor in terms of being able to change insurance. It's a little strange that here, then, it's the Progress Party that helps to create opposition in relation to a almost unanimous proposal that this should apply across the board. It is important that the sole proprietor also receives this right, I kept saying in particular to the small traders, who are now trying to save expenses on most parts of their own expenditure budget, and as they can just exercise the control and efficiency that lie in seeing who has the most reasonable offer. It's very surprising that it's the Progress Party that now in many ways chooses to say that here we protect the big, commercial players and let the advantages that you actually have of competition fail to come to light. We in the Workers' Party are even sad about this case, because we believe that this scheme will actually help to strengthen consumer protection. It is also the case that for some groupings it will be difficult to draw boundaries between what is a pure consumer and a trader, especially when traders become so small, so that here we also save ourselves for that debate in relation to the need to draw such a limit. And then it's my opinion – and the Workers' Party's opinion – that now we're helping to make this set of rules general in terms of the possibility of switching insurance during the period, in itself, will create an extra pressure in the industry to make the conditions better for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e118	The purpose of the legislative changes in Ot.prp. No 29 is to strengthen consumer protection and to facilitate increased competition in the insurance market. Right-wing parties welcome increased competition and believe that it will benefit consumers. Operational competition in the insurance market depends on several factors – one of them is the ability of customers to change suppliers during the insurance period. This is particularly important for long-term insurance contracts such as life insurance contracts. Liberalisation, which increases consumer flexibility, is in line with the line followed by the Government in a number of areas throughout this four-year period. We are committed to providing consumers with good, reasonable and flexible solutions that adequately meet their needs. It is important for competition in the insurance market that customers are mobile. In its hearing opinion, the Competition Authority also states that actions or conditions that make it difficult for customers to switch companies may impede competition. In a market dominated by five major players, it is important that the law gives customers real freedom of choice, that the customer is reimbursed a proportionate share of the premium in relation to the remaining insurance period, and that companies are not given the opportunity to charge for the transfer of insurance. This is well taken care of in the bill. The party seeking to reserve the right to transfer insurance during the period of insurance to consumer relations. The right-hand side sees that not all traders have the same need for protection through the law as consumers. On the other hand, there are many small enterprises – including the representative of Storberget – which, if the proposals of the Progress Party had been given a majority, would have come out worse. When these rights will also benefit traders, this will also have a more competitive effect, resulting in lower premiums for both consumers and businesses. Therefore, the right supports the proposition and is pleased that a broad majority supports the Government’s approach, which will increase competition and enhance consumer protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e135	If a customer wants to change the insurance company, e.g. because a new market operator offers a more favourable offer, it has to wait today for the existing insurance contract to expire or to opt for double coverage for a period. However, insurance customers are now given the opportunity to change insurance companies during the contract period. It shall prevent customers from being unduly bound to a particular company by the purchase of insurance services. An overall Justiscomite wishes to facilitate the replacement of an insurance company if the consumer so wishes. This provides enhanced consumer protection. In the event of a transfer, the policy holder shall, as a general rule, be reimbursed a proportionate share of the premium in relation to the remaining period of insurance. For the purpose of calculating the amount of the refund, consideration shall be given to variations in risk only if this is laid down in the conditions of insurance. Insurance corporations do not have the opportunity to charge a fee for the transfer of insurance. The insurance industry is today characterised by a few major players. The amendments currently made to the Insurance Contracts Act facilitate not least increased competition in the insurance industry. Increased competition is likely to result in increased cost-effectiveness in the industry. Over time, it could lead to lower insurance premiums and thus benefit all users of insurance services. It is therefore important that insurance customers now use the option of cancelling contracts if they are dissatisfied with the companies. We know that consumers have great power if they react in flocks. The party seeking to reserve the right to transfer insurance during the period of insurance to consumer relations. The Christian People's Party believes that the reasons behind the right to move an insurance during the insurance period mean that this right should be general and mandatory to the same extent as the law otherwise does. We know that there are many small and medium-sized enterprises with insurance needs that, in fact, do not have a stronger position vis-à-vis insurance companies than powerful consumers. This underpins the majority’s view of making the right of move general. The Christian People's Party understands that the insurance industry is skeptical to the right customer now to move insurance. It is almost in the nature of the matter that the person who loses a privilege would like to preserve the status quo. However, we believe that the industry is well served by the approach to customer needs resulting from the amendment of the law. The change is necessary in line with the spirit of time and in the opinion of the Christian People's Party in order for the insurance industry to maintain confidence in the customer group. However, I ask the Ministry to take into account the industry's need for time for conversion by setting the date of implementation of the amendment. Another important proposal in Ot.prp. No 29 deals with the right to cancel an insurance contract. Today, insurance must be cancelled within one month of the notification of the premium and companies are not required to inform about the possibility of cancellation. Insurance corporations are now required to inform insurance customers that the insurance relationship is automatically renewed if the customer does not notify notice of termination before the end of the contract period. This also means a significant improvement in the rights of insurance customers. Ot. pp. No 29 is an important element of the Government’s efforts to strengthen consumer rights in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e167	I am pleased that Odelstinget now has to consider the proposal for amendments to, inter alia, the insurance contract law. This proposal facilitates the strengthening of the position of the insurance customer and the strengthening of competition in the insurance market. Today, the general rule is that a customer can only cancel the insurance when it expires. By allowing insurance to be transferred to another insurance company, a customer will be free to avail himself of an offer from another company. This will help to strengthen the negotiating position of customers and stimulate increased competition between insurance companies. I am recording that the members of the Committee of the Advance Party believe that the right to move the insurance during the insurance period should only apply to customers who are consumers. In practice, small and medium-sized enterprises do not have this right to move and have to negotiate specifically with insurance companies about this. A typical representative of this group does not have such an extensive organisation or financial resources that they will constitute an equivalent negotiator to an operator in a market dominated by five insurance companies. That is why I am pleased to see that all the committee members of the other parties support the Ministry's proposal on the right to move also for small and medium-sized enterprises. I have noticed that the members of the Progress Party indicate that the distinction between traders and consumers is a well-known distinction in other laws. However, the relevant point in this context is that the insurance contract law is a law based instead on a distinction between large traders, etc. and other insurance customers. I find it very difficult to see how, in relation to this provision on the right to move, one should need to use a different distinction from that resulting from the system in the insurance contract law. Such an approach would not create a simple and transparent law. Another important point of the bill is imposed on insurance companies to inform insurance customers that the insurance relationship is automatically renewed if customers do not notify the company before the end of the contract. I note with satisfaction that an overall committee supports this. I record that a majority of the Committee's members are in favour of the date of implementation being clarified as early as possible. Both insurance corporations and customers need to be able to comply with the proposed amendments to the insurance law. I aim to ensure that the legislative changes could enter into force on 1 January 2006, in line with the general guideline that legislation of relevance to business should preferably be brought into force at the end of the year. I want to make sure that this is formally clarified and made known in good time in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e182	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e185	I think in and off it might be a point of a little bit of preparation. Insurance is a voluntary agreement between an insurance company and a customer. Here they may agree what they wish, taking into account the period of insurance. They may also agree on the possibility of a prior termination. So there's nothing wrong with today's law that you can cancel during the period. The majority now do not agree to commit themselves to a special period, because the law does not allow for the possibility of agreeing, for example: want to insure their car park for an entire year, without being able to cancel it in this one year. So it is not the Progress Party that prevents anyone from agreeing. The majority of them refuse to agree anything other than what the law now says. There are many who may wonder about the views and behaviour of the different parties. I wonder in and of myself that the Right wants to refuse the sole proprietor to conclude the agreements which he or she finds most appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e195	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 457]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e211	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e218	Today we are dealing with amendments to the law of 11 June 1976 on control of products and consumer services, i.e. the so-called product control law. The background to the changes is the general product safety directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Ministers. The aim of the changes is to ensure Norwegian economic operators and consumers equivalent to the framework conditions and protection of the rest of the EEA territory. We believe that this is done with the law that is currently under consideration. However, as the Norwegian law and the EU directive are somewhat different in what they cover, I would like to make some comments on this. The Norwegian Product Control Act goes beyond the scope of the Directive. This applies, inter alia, to: the products covered by the law and the Directive. The Directive also covers only protection against adverse health effects, while the Product Control Act covers both health damage and environmental disruption. In the following I want to explain the minority's view, which is the SV's and the Workers' Party's view. When we make changes to Norwegian law as a result of EU directives, it is important that we do not weaken either the letter or the intention of the law. In this case, Norwegian law is ahead of the EU, and therefore, in our view, adaptation to the EU Directive represents a real possibility of weakening the intention of the Product Control Act. We have registered that the ministry has taken account of objections from environmental authorities and have proposed changes that are well on the way to meeting the objections. On one point, however, we believe that we have not gone far enough, and that is the information requirement. We have recently amended the Product Control Act (Sections 9 and 10) as a result of the new Environmental Information Act. These say that everyone on request has the right to receive information about the risk of environmental degradation of products. At the same time, the obligation to provide information on the potential risk of health damage to a product or service is regulated by law. This may, in our opinion, raise doubts as to the rules applicable to information on environmental effects, and it may give the impression of a depriving the obligation to inform about the environmental effects of products and services. In that case, we believe that this would be very unfortunate. We believe that this can be solved by triggering the information obligation on environmental disruptive effects by reporting the same thing. This has not been given to our two parties a majority in the notes, but we have recorded that the majority is asking the Ministry to clarify how this can be implemented in the law at a later stage, and we are therefore addressing a further development of the obligation to provide information on possible environmental damage later on. In addition to this, we have no comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e235	This proposition contains proposals for amendments to the Product Control Act. The amendments implement Directive 2001/95/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on general product safety. These changes will ensure Norwegian economic operators and consumers an equivalent level of framework conditions and protection to the rest of the EEA territory. A new purpose provision makes it clear that the purpose of the Product Control Act is to prevent health damage and environmental disruption. A duty of care and an obligation to take preventive measures to prevent health damage and/or environmental disturbances is imposed on those in possession of consumer products and services. Manufacturers and importers of consumer products and owners and managers of activities providing consumer services are required to provide consumers with relevant information enabling them to assess and ensure themselves against adverse health effects associated with the product. It is proposed to introduce access to export bans for consumer services which pose an unacceptable risk of health damage to the authorities. The threshold for when the obligation to notify authorities occurs is proposed to be reduced from where the product presents a significant risk of health damage and environmental disturbance until there is an unacceptable risk of such an effect. The EU Directive covers only the adverse health effects of products and not any negative environmental effects. As a consequence, the proposal for a new provision on criteria for the assessment of the safety of consumer products and services is similarly limited. The same is true of the proposal for a new provision on information obligations. The Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party wish to extend these provisions to include any negative environmental impact of products and services. The right agrees that there is a need for this. When the Government has not proposed this in this round, this is due to the fact that it raises a number of questions that need to be examined in greater detail. The majority, however, ask the Ministry to investigate this, and ask the Ministry to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a legislative act as soon as possible. Negative environmental impacts may be cross-border. For this reason, it would have been desirable for this to be covered by the Directive, so that the whole EU area was covered by such an information obligation. When the Socialist Left has objections to several issues relating to the implementation of EU directives, I find it a pity that the Socialist Left still does not want to become a member of the EU, which will be the safest way to get involved and influence regulations that have consequences for all European countries. With this, I recommend the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e254	On the Norwegian market, several hundred thousand different product types and consumer services are known. Consumers expect these products and services to have an acceptable level of safety. The Government’s bill specifies the obligations imposed on economic operators. This concerns the obligation to provide information to users and recipients of consumer products and services, as well as the obligation to notify authorities of dangerous products and consumer services. At the same time, new obligations relating to reporting obligations are introduced for measures taken by economic operators themselves to prevent or limit the risks posed by a consumer product or service to consumers. Requirements for the storage of documents for the traceability of consumer products are also proposed. The amendments to the Product Control Act implement the EU Directive on general product safety in Norwegian law. The new requirements of the law are thus a result of Norway’s EEA obligations. At the heart of the legislative proposal is the consumer’s confidence and confidence that products and services presented have an acceptable level of safety. At the same time, the law shall ensure that operators are made aware of how this level of safety can be achieved. The proposed legislation provides for consumer products to be considered as safe from adverse health effects if they comply with the requirements of harmonised standards. These standards make it easier for economic operators to assess whether the safety requirements of the Product Control Act have been met. A company on the basis of harmonised standards for production is guaranteed market access throughout the EEA territory. Thus, standards will be an important tool in the manufacture of consumer products, while also helping to ensure that products have an acceptable level of safety. The fact that a consumer product has been manufactured under harmonised standards does not, and can never, constitute a guarantee that the product is safe. This could be done, for example, by: it appears that the standards contain errors. Therefore, in order to take account of such situations, it is proposed to propose a provision allowing authorities to intervene with regulatory measures, despite the fact that a product has been carried out in accordance with harmonised standard. I consider this safeguard clause to be very important to ensure that the professional authorities continue to have the opportunity to make a concrete assessment of the safety of consumer products. In the case of products, the proposal for amendments to the Product Control Act provides for the direct implementation of the General Product Safety Directive. Prevention of environmental disturbances is not covered by the new provisions. Environmental protection authorities have assessed that environmental considerations are already well taken into account in current legislation. Further consideration of the issue has also not been possible in the light of the deadline for transposition of the Directive. I have noticed that the Justice Committee wants the objective of the Product Control Act to prevent damage to health and the environment to continue as far as possible. I have also noticed that the Committee asks the Ministry to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal for a new legislation on active information obligations, which also includes environmental considerations. It is an objective that consumers and others should be able to make informed and informed choices as regards both the risk of health damage to a product and its environmental disruptive properties. The Ministry of the Environment, which is responsible for taking care of the environmental concerns of the law, is in principle in favour of the Committee's request to extend the provision on active information obligations and will carry out necessary investigations and assessments of this issue. The Ministry of the Environment will also assess whether the obligation to notify self-regulatory measures should also apply when notifying products presenting a risk to the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e275	: No more people have asked for the floor. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e291	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative. The first speaker is Knut Storberget – for the spokesman for Saka, who is Gunn Karin Gjul.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e300	It is with joy that a unanimous committee has gathered on the proposal that is likely to be adopted today, in this important area. On behalf of the case rapporteur, I would like to make it clear that sexual assault on children is a very serious crime. In this area, we face two challenges. Firstly, we need to clarify and improve the law against child abuse, and secondly – and that may be the most important thing – to put in place measures that are effective in combating these abuses. This is a type of business we can never adopt away from with more or less good legal texts. Much of the dissemination and marketing of pornography takes place on the Internet. As part of this, an increasing amount of child pornography material is found. Increased demand for these types of online assault images contributes to the increasing number of children being abused and to the generalisation of sexual abuse of children. Therefore, it is important to have clear rules in this field. An overall committee suggests that any picture of child pornography is an infringement against children. The Committee therefore considers that a separate legal framework, as proposed by the proposal, would better clarify the prohibition of abuses. It helps to protect children from sexual abuse and indicates that children have special and extended protection. A separate legal home also clearly states that all the possession of such material contributes to the abuses by maintaining a market and must be regarded as a serious crime for that reason. The Committee considers that the concept of ‘sexual portrayals’ is not elucidating in relation to the seriousness of the type of action to which it is addressed. For the victims, it's about violation and violation of rights that has little to do with sexual portrayals. Even in cases where the picture shows children who are not exposed to sexual abuse, the actual pose and exposure are offensive to the individual. The Committee feels that the legal text itself should be better understood as referring to evidence of child abuse. In addition, the Committee agrees with the Ministry that criminal liability shall also apply to the person acquiring and making himself aware of this type of manufacture. So over to what must be the most important thing in this struggle that society is constantly trying to lead against child pornography and similar material: how are we going to manage to put into practice measures to stop it? Telenor, in cooperation with Kripos and Redd Barna, has developed a filter to close access to websites containing child pornographic material. Websites that contribute to making child pornographic material available to interested parties create new recruitment to this market and serve as entry portals for pages with serious material and contribute to increased dissemination. We know that a filter will be able to close access to the websites and not contribute significantly to limiting dissemination through other channels. Nevertheless, this would limit access, especially for new entrants. That is why we are pleased that the Committee has now agreed that all Internet providers in Norway should have such a filter, and for this reason we are asking the Government to cooperate with the industry in order to obtain such a filter. In addition, it is important in this work that New Kripos’s counselling service to report sexual abuse of children on the Internet is better made available and better known. As a third measure, the dissemination of child pornographic material often involves the payment of credit cards, both in the acquisition of such material through digital networks and by other means. The Committee asks the Government to consider exploring the possibilities to stop the use of credit cards on websites offering child pornographic material and to report back to the Storting appropriately. This could be done in cooperation with credit card companies. Finally, the key to achieving goals in such important work is not, above all, the law, but the intensification of the fight against sexual abuse against those who can at least defend themselves. In this case, the legal text becomes a good basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e323	In this case, the Government follows up a decision taken by the Stortinget in 2003, where the Stortinget asks for its own criminal order against child pornography. Today’s pornography determination has a completely different purpose than a child pornography determination. Now that we have a separate provision on this, it will help to ensure that children are protected from sexual abuse, and that because children need special protection. A separate law home will also indicate that all the contents of such material are a serious crime. The Internet has made the world smaller, and the Internet has given us tremendous opportunities for information exchange and entertainment. Unfortunately, the Internet also has many negative aspects, and the spread of child pornography is one of the most serious. There's nothing but an assault on children. Increased demand for such material also leads to more children being subjected to abuse and abuse. All forces must therefore be deployed to prevent children from becoming victims of abuse and being produced as sexual objects. A clear and clear piece of legislation is now in place, but the use of the Internet is unfortunately a gateway that makes such material available to many. As the representative of Storberget mentioned in his statement, it is therefore gratifying that Telenor, as a major Internet provider, has been responsible as a supplier consciously and developed a filter to close access to websites providing child pornographic material. The right is therefore satisfied that an overall committee today encourages all Internet providers to have such a filter, and we ask the Government to take concrete action if developments do not go in the desired direction. Children need special protection. The protection of children is strengthened by a clear and clear legal provision. But unfortunately, we still have a long way to go before we can feel confident that children are going to be children, and that we avoid children having their lives ruined by abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e332	We are very pleased that we are now getting an impact on a position that SV and the Workers' Party have had for a long time, for which we have tried for a while without luck to get a pass, but which we have finally got in place. It is that the term ‘child pornography’ is going out of Norwegian law, and that it is now going to be clear that it is about the production of sexual abuse against children and, in this respect, it is terribly serious. This means that the person who makes a scheduled acquaintance with such an offence has a co-responsibility for the actual occurrence of the abuses. We believe that it was extremely important to get signaled by the law. So I'm going to draw out Redd Barna's work to change the law in this area. It's a lot of Redd Barna's profit that we're getting these changes today, and that we're also getting a higher priority in working towards what's producing child abuse. The complainant, Gunn Karin Gjul, has taken into account the objections raised by Redd Barna to the proposal that the department made, after the Stortinget had asked the department to make new proposals, and SV is satisfied with the result – a result that the entire committee is now behind. As Mr Storberget pointed out on behalf of the rapporteur, it is most important to ensure that work on the exploitation of children is intensified. SV joins in the presentation that was made on behalf of the rapporteur. There is reason to be proud of the work that has now been done, and that we are now changing the law at a point that gives an important signal effect out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e341	Children’s pornographic images are evidence of sexual abuse against children. A little is more punishable than an assault on our little one. It is therefore very important that this type of particularly serious crime be regulated by a criminal offence of its own. The penal code § 204 today deals with both pornography that makes use of children and other pornography. This means that the determination is for a material which differs in several ways. Pornographic images of children are slightly different and far more serious than similar images of and with adult people. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that it is positive that we now have a separate provision that affects both the production of sexual abuse against children and the sexualization of children. A collective Justice Department believes that the concept of ‘sexual portrayals’, which the Government proposes to use in the new legal provision, does not fully cover the kind of actions we are talking about here. For the victim himself, it is a matter of infringements and offences, where sexual depictions constitute a large but not comprehensive description of the acts. Instead, we want the term ‘manufacture of sexual abuse against children’ or ‘manufacture that sexualizes children’ contained in the legal text. This is because we believe this concept is more comprehensive for the crime and the assault documented through images, text and audio files. However, there is reason to point out that the Committee's legislative proposals do not differ substantially from the Government's legislative proposals. We fully agree, and I will give the Minister of Justice credit for working with the Committee on Better Law-Making. I would also like to thank the Council of State for submitting proposals to amend Section 204 of the Criminal Code, despite the fact that the department is working on a completely new criminal law and could have waited for the proposal to be submitted to the new special part of the Criminal Code. The ministry's flexibility clearly shows that you take children's rights seriously, and that's the Christian People's Party very pleased. We are also pleased that the law will affect those who acquire and plan to familiarize themselves with child pornography. This means that far more users of material producing sexual assaults against children can be prosecuted and convicted than is the case today. Telenor is an Internet service provider based in Norway and has developed a filter to close access to websites containing child pornography. This filter will stop the web pages that Kripos will filter. The Committee considers that a system of common overviews of websites should be established to be refused access when the Internet service provider is Norwegian. We believe that this will prevent re-recruitment to this market. The websites covered by such a filter offered by Telenor today are often access portals for more serious child pornography material. In this way, the filter is helping Norwegian Internet service providers to reduce the spread of child pornography. The Justice Committee asks the Government to follow developments in the Internet industry closely. If the Internet service providers in Norway do not have a filter to close Internet access to websites containing child pornography by the end of 2006, we will require the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget to do so. A lot of child pornography is disseminated via the Internet, and often the buyer pays for the material with credit cards. This knowledge has led the Judicial Committee to ask the Government to investigate the possibility of stopping the use of credit cards on websites offering child pornographic material. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is concerned about this order. We know that Kripos and the police also follow the money trail in order to expose intermediaries and buyers of child pornographic material. If the authorities find arrangements which make payment by credit cards impossible, it would be more difficult to reveal those in possession of acts of sexual assault. Secondly, in the Christian People's Party, we are uncertain whether the obstacle to the use of credit cards will constitute a real obstacle to the dissemination of child pornographic material. However, the Christian People's Party has chosen to support the proposal for an investigation into this issue and looks forward to receiving the Government's assessment of the Grand Duchy for final consideration. The decision of the Grand Duchy on its own criminal order against the descriptions of sexual abuses against children is important in order to strengthen the legal certainty of children and to combat increasing production and dissemination of such material.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e362	Fortunately, the importance of a case does not depend on the volume and the size of what is presented to the Stortinget. This case is a good example of that. On the contrary, this is a case that shows that even though it is small in volume, it affects one of the most important elements of our society, namely the children who go outside, and their protection from being subjected to sexual abuse. Thus, it is an extremely important matter. Here, a joint committee and an overall odelsting give a clear signal that there must be an intensification, and I support the review of the case by the fully functioning rapporteur, whom he presented in a very good way. The reason why this is so important is that children have a clear priority requirement, and children also depend on having some adults who set up and do the job that needs to be done, as there is a difference between the adult role and the role that children should have. That's why you're totally dependent on being politically involved and taking care of it. I also fully support what the representative of Thorkildsen was about, about Save Barna and the efforts that have been made from there. At the end of the day, perhaps the most important way to combat this is a combination of a criminal reaction and a mental work. Of course, we can ban many things, and we can punish for many things, but I still think it is that one also has to fight that attitude, if one is to do something about it, even though part of this guaranteed is difficult to combat. Then I want to refer to the letter that the Justice Committee sent to the Council of State on exceptions in the law. It is also true that when the law now changes, there is the possibility of punishing someone that you might strictly not have to punish. Therefore, it is important to point it through examples and refer to it, so that the application of law becomes correct afterwards. Finally, I thought that I would take the chance and comment on the post from the representative of the Christian People's Party, who gave praise to the Council of State. That's what I'm essentially going to end up with. But I may be a little surprised by the feedback that the Council of State could have waited for the specific part of the penal code. It's probably depending on what the majority in this hall wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e375	I am pleased that the Judicial Committee supports the main features of the Department's proposal for a new Section 204(a) of the Penal Code. It is important that we stand together in the fight against sexual abuse and child abuse. It is gratifying that we now have our own criminal order, and that we all agree that the term ‘child pornography’ gives us crazy associations and therefore should not be used. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that the new provision should also provide a framework for ‘acquiring’ and ‘discovering’ the descriptions that sexualise children. These are practical extensions of the scope of the provision and effective means of combating the dissemination and placing on the market of such material over the Internet. I record that the committee has chosen a different wording from that of the department originally proposed for the new provision. The Committee wishes the text of the law to indicate that child sexualisation is a violation of child law. It therefore wishes to refer to the criminal material as ‘manufacture of sexual abuse of children or sexualisation of children’ rather than ‘sexual portrayals making use of children’, as proposed by the Department. I agree with the committee that descriptions that sexualize children, in many cases, document child abuse. The production itself can also be perceived as an infringement for those affected. All the stuff with material that sexualizes children represents sexual exploitation of children. The demand for such material also provides a basis for new abuses. When the Ministry did not use a link to an infringement in the legal text itself, this was due to concern that the courts could interpret it in practice as an additional condition for the application of the provision. Moreover, it is also the case that the very acts of abuse will be affected by other and stricter penalties, such as: rape, incest or sexual intercourse with minors. The penal provision in Section 204(a) is intended to target other aspects of the sexual exploitation of children, namely dealing with material that portrays children in a sexualised way. However, there is no substantive difference between the proposals of the Ministry and the Committee on this point. The Committee has therefore also stated in its opinion that fewer cases than under the existing law are to be covered by the new provision. I would like to stress that we are united in goals and intentions in this matter. The new criminal code means strengthening the protection against sexual abuse against children. This provision shall be an effective means of combating child abuse and exploitation. In this regard, I appreciate the Committee's noticing the initiative I took in collaboration with Kripos, Redd Barna and Telenor, to develop a filter that closes access to Internet sites that contain descriptions that sexualize children. I will also comment further on this, because it goes right at the heart of what the committee asks for. What's the point here is that this initiative resulted in me simply bringing together ten Norwegian citizens around a table twice. The 10 Norwegian citizens had in common the representation of mobile companies, card companies, Internet service providers, and they are in common on this copying system as the Internet, this distribution system as the Internet, and the payment methods associated with cards, and the technology connected to both the Internet and mobile. But they also have another thing in common, and it is that they are all citizens of this country, and they are related to children. Either they're directly, or they know someone who is. What is the strength in Norway when it comes to bringing people together in this way is precisely doing what the Committee says: mobilising citizens to take responsibility. Because this forum, after meeting once, struck firmly – we shall say – the ethical rules for what was not accepted, and the next time came back and told what they had done by practical measures, including: This filter, of course, I shall do what I had already thought, but to which the Committee makes a strong encouraging call, namely to continue bringing together the forum to discuss further practical measures, and then, with the basic attitude that the Committee has, that we need to impose penalties, but we also need the mobilisation of responsible citizens. I also agree with the Committee that such mobilization of responsible citizens is, of course, the responsibility of Redd Barna, both nationally and internationally across borders, in order to be able to say what is wrong. It is also true that here one should witness on behalf of those who are the weakest of all, and who just become insanely vulnerable when adults abuse trust and what is worse. So the very basic attitude expressed by the committee here, I believe, and I have found by practical experience that it produces results, and I think it will continue to do so. I've also noticed that the committee has raised a number of other issues that we're going to look at, and I'm going to do it with an open mind, because I feel that we have a common intention to do what we can through attitude mobilization and the use of the law and the criminal law in a wise way, to ensure that no one uses children sexually. Here, we're standing together, and it's good that we can do it this way in a small country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e403	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e419	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e430	Security and legal certainty are key values in a democratic society. This is precisely why it is so important that we have a criminal law that makes the fight against crime effective and that contributes to the protection of society and individuals. Criminal law has been amended repeatedly in the last hundred years. The background to this has been society’s need for legislation to adapt to ever-increasing challenges. It is therefore natural that the proposal for a new general part of the penal code bears the mark of cleaning and simplification. However, I would like to point out that the bill contains important new and forward-looking elements. The perception of what should be covered by punishment, how the reaction should be, and how rigorously it should be reacted, for example, has changed significantly since the penal code was adopted in 1902. The design of a new penal code means that the Storting should take a decision on what to criminalise and set guidelines on how strict the punishment should be. These are very important and very fundamental questions, which will undoubtedly have a major impact on our society in the years ahead. A central issue during the review of Ot.prp by the Judicial Committee. No 90 for 2003–04 has been the question of the penalty to be imposed on individual offenders. A correct response to a concrete crime cannot be determined by either government or magnification. The specific penalty must be determined by the courts in each case. However, the signals on the level of penalties given during the political treatment of the law are to be given greater emphasis in criminal investigations than the previous practice of the courts. Today, however, it may appear that the courts place greater emphasis on their own practices than on the expressed wishes of the Grand Duchy. It's unfortunate. The Criminal Felony Commission stated in NOU 2002:4: ‘The Commission is generally sceptical about the legislator’s governing the criminal investigation in order to ensure sufficiently strict penalties in specific areas.’ This statement and other statements made in the NOU are alarming and clearly contrary to the principle of the Basic Law's distribution of power. It is the role of the Stortinge to be a legislator, including in the field of criminal law. The Christian People's Party does not want a new penal code to lead to a higher level of punishment in Norway in general. But we also do not want to reduce the level of penalties on a general basis or to reduce the penalties. It's e.g. the importance of taking into account criminal penalties that have not yet been reflected in case-law. It is an important principle that the penalty should be proportionate to the crime committed. The Christian People’s Party – and a total accumulation – has repeatedly stated that the level of punishment in child abuse cases is too low. A penalty of between one and two years for multiple child abuse is not consistent with the seriousness of the crime. We have also said that the level of penalties in rape cases should be raised in particular and in moral matters in general. Nevertheless, we see little that indicates a change in the practice of the courts. A unanimous judiciary explicitly writes clearly in the preamble that the level of penalties in homicide cases, in cases of sexual assault, and in violence must be raised. It is the duty of the courts to ensure that this happens. The government parties do not seem to have responded sufficiently to the legislator's opinions on the level of penalties in the types of cases I have mentioned. For this reason, the wording contains significant criticism of today’s criminal justice practices and clear indications of what we expect from the courts in general and from the Supreme Court in particular. The Labour Party and the Advance Party want to increase the minimum penalty for rape and killed to three years and eight years respectively. The Christian People's Party, Right and SV agree with the objective of higher penalties for such crimes, but we do not support the proposal to lift the minimum penalty. There are several reasons for this: We assume that the courts follow the clear signals of raising the level of penalties contained in the suspension.We believe that if the criticism of the criminal justice practices is complemented by an increase in the minimum penalties, this will mean a total mistrust from the legislator to the judiciary.We want to give the courts a last chance to raise the level of penalties. However, if the signals in the suspension are not followed by changed court practices, the Christian People's Party will also be able to support the proposal to lift the minimum penalty for rape and murder.We also fear that an increase in the minimum penalty for rape and killing could lead to false acquittals, or that the perpetrator is convicted of a less serious situation. In the proposal, the government proposes a whole new scheme, called non-criminal measures. Non-criminal measures mean that one is convicted of a crime, but because the act is excused, no punishment is measured. In order to make it clear that this scheme will only be used in exceptional situations, the Government Parties and the Advance Party are in favour of a somewhat different design of Section 61 than the Government has proposed. In particular, the system of non-criminal measures aims at negligent actions where the result has been very hard on the perpetrator. For example, non-criminal measures may include: is considered to be used in a case where the perpetrator has, in a moment of inattentiveness, turned over and killed his child. In such a case, a criminal reaction to the perpetrator will have no preventative effect beyond the tragic outcome of the act. But the purpose of giving the perpetrator a fair response is not the only reason that carries the punishment and the prosecution. While it would seem that the measurement of penalties would be an unreasonable additional burden for the offender, it is a requirement to apply non-criminal measures that neither the need for general prevention nor the ability of the criminal to maintain social tranquillity suggest that a response has to be measured. The majority also clarify in the preamble that non-criminal measures should not be used in suspected killing cases. Drops in the form of active death aid and/or mercy drops are not justified. That is why in the future there must also be a response to such actions. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that the new penal law preserves the protection of life. Life is the highest justice in society. The new penal code has to reflect on it. Tomorrow, my interview with the Minister of Justice on children in prison will be discussed in the Grand Duchy. In order not to preface that debate, I would like to mention today only briefly the issues related to prison and custody of persons under 18 years of age. An overall justice policy emphasises that prisoning of young people under 18 years of age should only happen exceptionally. This is in line with current practice. However, the majority of the criminal justice commission proposes a maximum limit of eight years in prison for offenders who have not reached the age of 18 at the time of the offence. The same majority also proposes a ban on the apprehension and custody of young people under 16 years of age. The Christian People's Party has considered these proposals very carefully. When we have not found that we can support any of the proposals, it is mainly due to three factors: 1st@item: inlistbox Young people under the age of 18 are rarely sentenced to imprisonment.2. Persons under the age of 18 may be guilty of such serious, criminal offences that a sentence of eight years in prison could be too low, both when looking at the age of the perpetrator, the consideration of the victim and the consideration of social tranquillity.3. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the courts should not be deprived of the possibility, in exceptional cases, of using a longer sentence than eight years for offenders who have not reached the age of 18. In addition, the Christian People’s Party believes that a very mild punishment framework for young people under 18 years of age could weaken the preventive effect of the punishment and be a disadvantage to the young person himself. For example, in the case of gang crime: the youngest members of the gang are pressured to commit serious crime because they are at risk of a shorter prison sentence than older gang members. Justice policy is not just about judgment and punishment. Justice policy also acts to help law-enforce offenders in return to help victims of crime to criminalise them in order to safeguard people’s security and not least to ensure legal certainty both for those accused and for those exposed to crime I would like to remind you of this one day when Stortinget adopts a new general part of the penal code. The Criminal Code is a very important piece of justice policy. However, without police prevention, health care and the rehabilitation of criminal services, the penal code appears to be less humane and holistic. I recommend this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e527	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now over. The President will assume that it makes sense to wind up the change of line after Mr. Holstad's statements before we cancel this morning's meeting, and see it as agreed. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e532	It was with excitement that we looked forward to reading the Christian People's Party's attitude to this matter, and it is with the greater disappointment that we see that the rather harsh outcomes, among other things. has come in the media from the case rapporteur on the penal code, and is not being followed up. It is disappointing to experience that the Christian People's Party does not follow up, among other things. in relation to supporting the Workers' Party's wish to increase the minimum penalty for gross rape and intentional killing. It's actually weird. Einar Holstad states in the newspaper of 16 February under the heading of ‘Low Punishment for Abuse’ that ‘it is time for the Storting to take power back.’ Notes and political statements don't hold," says Holstad. He says that the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party will ‘take a settlement with the courts’. He goes on to say here that "KrF's husband will receive support from Frp in a strong settlement with the courts". Where is the settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e539	The settlement is far more than raising the threshold of the minimum penalty. The arrangement is above all to expect an overall understanding of what kind of signals this house sends out. As I was also involved in my initial speech here, the respect for that need and the demand that people have shown in this matter is more than just raising a minimum penalty. It's a big leap from two or three years, which is the lower frame of rape, and up to ten years. The courts should have reasonable room to follow the recommendations of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e544	It was interesting to hear the case rapporteur explain his judgements on the criminal law. What was perhaps among the most interesting was the criticism raised against the criminal evaluation carried out by the courts today. I believe the representative Holstad said something such as that one would reconsider this if the courts did not comply with the legislator's decision. «One last chance», I think was the term used in that connection. I think it's in a certain contrast to the criticism that emerges, that you're going to give someone a new chance if you think what you're doing today is wrong. Isn't the representative Holstad concerned about the reaction from and the emotional for those who are victims of this type of crime, when on the one hand you say you should do something about it, but will you take the chance to wait a little longer?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e549	I want to make a new attempt to nuance the picture of the minimum penalty in relation to the opportunity the courts have had for a long time. If it's the case that the courts are going to consistently impose the minimum penalty, we could have simplified our framework to the courts by saying that the minimum penalty is going to be like that, and we expect it to be followed. But it's a much greater tension, a much greater expectation from this hall, I think, in relation to using a much larger part of the criminal record that's made available. It is not least for the sake of all those who expect a penalty of anything more than two or three years for a rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e554	As the representative of Storberget was inside, the representative Holstad has held a relatively high profile in the media in the treatment of the penal code, and one of the areas in which he sailed is about children and young people. Now it is in the position that the Workers' Party and the SV have taken together the recommendations of a majority of the Criminal Felony Commission, who have taken the great steps to prevent children from being imprisoned and also put in custody. On the SV side, we are disappointed that the Christian People's Party has shown such a small willingness to address these issues, all the time we believe that the Christian People's Party agrees with us that prison is particularly harmful when it is used to children, and that it does not help. It has also been said that prisoning of young people under 18 years of age should only happen exceptionally, as measures for children and young people should be stepped up. That was said by the ratification of the Children's Convention. What has the Christian People's Party done to follow up this comment from the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e563	In the case of children and young people, there is clearly a need for something more than concerns. I fully agree with that. Unfortunately, the world is such that some children — or some under 18 years of age — actually have to sit in prison, which is the alternative society has available. When I personally went out and claimed that, for example, as a test facility, we could set up departments in a couple of Norwegian prisons, it is from my point of view serious, given that I am seriously concerned about the environments that we provide to the few under 18 who actually have to sit in Norwegian prisons. I still want to try to find solutions that go the way that everyone under the age of 18 who, for some reason, has to go to prison, is actually going to get an offer that is better than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-11-lower.ana.ud604e573	Then you'll have the cord shift over. Then Odelstinget takes a break in the handling of case no. 4th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at the evening meeting is Knut Storberget.
