ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e47	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e58	Initially, I will be allowed to thank the Committee for a good and tidy process in relation to the work that has now been done in the Committee on Budgetary Control for the current year. Many have been consulted in the Committee to present their comments and wish to see what the budget should look like in the future. These are important feedback for the Committee's work. It is also not to be overlooked that the Committee is now also made up of many new representatives, and also has new roles. President – I must also be allowed from this pulpit to send a few thoughts to former representative John I. Alvheim, who, in my opinion, did a fantastic job for the weakest in society in this context. And I want, if the president has nothing against it, to have a few minutes of silence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e69	The President is somewhat uncertain. We're going to have a memoir on the representative of John I. Alvheim on a later occasion. The President thinks we all have our thoughts about him in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e72	Thank you for that. Then I'll go on. In the context of the budget, we now see the outlines of a majority government. I think the setting also has the hallmark of it. We have also been assured that the government will listen to the opposition. There's probably a little bit of a lack in this setting, but we'll see how the work develops on later occasions. Having participated in a long, long election campaign in connection with this year's big elections, where I have met representatives from the government parties in a number of different debates, I must be allowed to express some surprise – it is not to be concealed – about the draft budget that the Government has promoted. Yes, after reading the entire Soria Moria statement, I am even more amazed. I'm going to use an example here to show that there's obviously a long way between life and learning in some contexts, including in politics. Under Chapter 9 of the Declaration, Health and Welfare, the following is to be read as the final point under Health Services: ‘– reduce and maintain a low level of abstinence in healthcare.’» This contrasts in stark contrast with the fact that a new distinction is now being introduced that affects the chroniclers very hard. What I'm talking about is, of course, the introduction of a 50-kr supplement related to physiotherapy for those on the diagnostic list. In addition, when you saw almost double the proportion associated with being able to take advantage of the right to free hospital choice, you are on this government's way of reintroducing health services where only those who have good advice will be able to do so. leaving the region to be treated as soon as possible and then in a hospital with shorter waiting times than your own. When a former member of the government has faced these breaches of the promises to those who have difficulty already, and who are getting worse, the comment has been that this is not something for the new government, but something that remains after the previous one. This cannot be used as an argument, as we now have to deal with a budget that the Government itself is behind, all the time this has not been corrected in the supplementary proposition. What is actually the reality is that you have not found room for this in your own budget. But then you have also shown how to give priority to health care. Then one has to innovate that in this way one actually hits the weakest, those who don't already have enough – and who aren't among the hundreds of richest people you're looking to take, at least according to previous debates. Where will the fight against poverty be in this context? Norway is a long-distance country, with a very widespread population — if one ignores the very central eastern region. This means that it is expensive to provide a specialist health service in that country with the condition that all residents of that country have the same rights related to the treatment of disease, regardless of their residence address. If a person wants this to work properly, we have to be willing to spend enough money on this sector, so that those in need of help get it within a reasonable time, and not least within the prescribed time limit given by the doctor. This is primarily about patient treatment appropriations, but to a large extent also about long-term and predictable framework conditions for specialist healthcare. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. Once again, the proposal to be adopted today is that the input-based part of the financing of the specialist health service should be reduced to 40 pst, while the base part should be increased to 60 pst. The change in the funding system now being implemented could result in a further increase in waiting time. And the focus that you have now had on a time, on securing patients as fast as possible, is going to be considerably less. In addition, when it is known that the individual hospital does not receive direct settlement from the country related to the patient treatment, but receives settlement only after the funds have been transferred to the regional health company, this creates further uncertainty. Furthermore, there will also be major problems with the fact that planning activities is becoming increasingly difficult, as new changes in the funding system or proposals are constantly being made. The background to the amendment proposed by the Bondevik government in its draft government budget can be read in the proposition itself, where it is written, among other things. the following: ‘The objective is a balanced and guided development of treatment provision. Priority shall be given to the provision of mental health and drug users. A lower refund rate to ISF covering somatic treatment will support such a measure and reduce the risk of undesirable twisting effects.» The Progress Party is of the opinion that the proposal for a change in the effort-driven financing to 40 p.m. does not have the desired effect, but rather only leads to major problems for hospitals with regard to the planning and follow-up of even more patient groups. Instead of changing the funding system, it is much more important to make a real effort to put in place activity-based funding also in the area of psychiatry and drug treatment. In cases where one sees that adverse distortive effects occur, such as: in the case of the snoring operations referred to above, this must be met by changing the pricing of those services in such a way that the payment is proportionate to the costs and time involved in the processing. It is also particularly important to be able to obtain a more accurate pricing of health services. This is important, so that both public and private health institutions are guaranteed proper payment for the services provided. It is also worth noting that the agreement between the Bondevik Government and the Workers' Party in the 2004 government budget reduced the input-driven part of the funding to 40pst. In the spring of 2005, we again saw that the queues had started to increase, after several years of decline. The progress party then got the ISF share of 60 pst. in place again in the 2005 budget. The Progress Party supports in its current alternative state budget proposals that the ISF share should be on what it is today, while asking that work be intensified to find a good activity-based funding system, which should also apply in the area of psychiatry and drug care. I must say that I am very surprised that we in this country have not yet managed to get away from the queues associated with the treatment and investigation of people who need a so-called cochlea implant. It is based on the constant promises and assurances that now everything will be done in this area. It's not acceptable. I hope that during today's debate the Council of State will promise from this pulpit that the capacity for this type of operation will be strengthened, so that the long and very problematic waiting lists for operations and for investigations of both adults and children needing cochlea implants are removed once and for all. The Progress Party believes that there are still some very important tasks related to corporate reform if we are to be able to make this reform work optimally as the Progress Party sees it. What needs to be settled immediately is a clarification as to the depreciation rules to be applied by undertakings so that the opening balance sheet can be determined by real figures. It is important to base the principle of replacement so that undertakings can have predictability related, inter alia, to the reinvestment of: building mass as required. This implies that the Storting must be brought forward with a case that solves this problem. Furthermore, more resources need to be allocated to enterprises so that they can ensure that those patients in need of treatment also receive it quickly. Therefore, the Progress Party in its alternative state budget proposes to increase the funding of regional health enterprises by 500 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. Furthermore, we have taken over all the plans that are now available for investment in the health sector. Therefore, in its alternative government budget, the Progress Party is promoting proposals to increase the lending line in the budget by 500 million. kr. Furthermore, it is important that we get a debt relief for businesses, so that they can get back on their feet. The Progress Party has therefore proposed the allocation of DKK 1 billion in debt to enterprises. This is included in the Alternative State Budget of the Advance Party. The Progress Party looks forward to an evaluation of the corporate reform and will already announce that we believe it is now time to assess the closure of regional health businesses and instead replace them with the hospital directorate of a particular country. The task associated with the ordering role must be transferred to the municipal level through, for example: determine. The Progress Party can no longer accept a combination of the ownership role and the order role and that it is almost in the process of developing five of its own health republics in this country with each of its own full administration. I also want to challenge the government parties to say something about why you can't follow up your own decisions from as late back as we did today. The two decisions that I would particularly like to draw attention to are, first of all, the de minimis limit for the authorisation of medicinal products. There, the majority of this room ordered the Government to return with a substantial increase in the de minimis ceiling in the context of the 2006 State Budget. That's not the case. Furthermore, it goes to the medicines related to COLS, where the government parties have actually sat with the Progress Party and pointed out that the government Bondevik did not follow up the Storting decision not to transfer these medicines for this patient group from Section 9 to Section 10a. You didn't deliver here either. These medicines are still available after an individual application. The Progress Party has found no room for promoting an alternative budget within the allocated framework of the Health and Care Committee. We in the Progress Party believe that the framework is very close enough to provide a good enough health supply to the population. In our alternative state budget, we have made our priorities visible as regards the size of the health budget. In this context, we will vote against the vote on the framework. The Progress Party shall promote the framework-independent proposals included in the vote. However, I would like to remind you that a proposal has been distributed that replaces proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, which is included in the setting. With this, I take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e131	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e136	I have a question for the Progress Party. On the basis of an article that stood in the VG today, that men on the west side of Oslo live twelve years longer than men on the east side, and that the social differences in Oslo are enormous, I think it's in their place to ask the Progress Party what kind of policies they have to reduce the differences. The Progress Party supported the tax policy of the previous government, where SEK 23 billion was distributed, mostly to those who already have the most. The Progress Party is also very concerned about increasing the number of private commercial players – there is a policy for increasing differences – and the Progress Party supports an ISF share of 60 p.t., suggesting that the weakest and the sickest are deprived in favour of stronger groups. The question is whether the Progress Party supports this government’s policy of reducing disparities, which will also have positive effects on health.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e147	This is an interesting question, especially from a party that now has the Minister of Finance, and that actually leads a tax policy that gives the greatest tax relief to those who have the most from before and those with the highest incomes. I believe that the representative No Marte Thorkildsen can go a little by himself and back to the debate that has previously been linked to the tax relief issue. In the case of balancing differences: Yes! Because we have a policy where we have zeroed out the VAT increase that this government stands for, from 11 to 13 pst. We've made sure to zero out the excesses in the health care system, which this government is not just increasing, but they're even introducing new excesses. If someone wants to do something about this sector, it's actually the Progress Party. The government has shown that it does exactly the opposite: they give the highest tax relief to them with the highest income, and in addition, they increase taxes, which affects most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e154	All parties in this Chamber are free to choose how they will deal with the budgetary arrangements. In this way, of course, the Progress Party is also free to make the choice they have made, namely not to make priorities within the framework adopted by the Stortinge. Nevertheless, I think I have reason to ask if the representative Nesvik has not given any thought to the effect of this, because it is the same thing as depriving himself of any opportunity to influence the priorities after the majority in the Grand Duchy has established the framework. In order to put it into practice at a single point, which is a microscopic amount, but which has a great symbolic effect: the party of progress, together with the three previous government parties, is, on a note criticising the symbolic reduction in the allocation to the Amathea Foundation, which is responsible for providing advice to pregnant women. Why doesn't the Progress Party also want to be involved in indicating that they want to convert the symbolic marking from the Government side?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e161	The amount of the health budget for the current year is not sufficient to provide adequate services to patients in the country. The Progress Party, through its alternative state budget, has put forward a comprehensive policy, including in this area, then with a higher framework. That is also a priority. We prioritise higher expenditure in the health sector than in other areas. In the case of Amathea, it is just – as the representative Inge Wohnning was in it – a symbol. We are involved in the whole comment related to Amathea and this attempt to reduce the appropriations of an organization that is very, very important. The thing is, today we have a majority government. So the proposal is just a symbol, so is it. The majority consists of completely different lots in this room, and they have initially adopted this. Yes, we support this. But in our priorities, we have chosen to increase the appropriations for the health sector significantly more than the other parties, so we have not found room to promote our own budget within this small framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e170	A few weeks ago, police, health and government organisations warned against the negative consequences of the recent changes in the alcohol law on alcohol use by young people. These changes have led to the sale and donation of brand new products with a higher alcohol content targeting young people. All batches on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, have taken the signals from the professional communities seriously and asked the Government to evaluate and evaluate the experience with the new provisions of the Alcohol Act. The question to the representative of the Progress Party is this: why is the Progress Party not concerned about the consequences when, as politicians, we receive so many technical warnings? Why does the Progress Party not even want to be involved in an assessment and evaluation of the impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e178	In principle, it is interesting that for half a year after the Christian People's Party itself took part in proposing precisely this change – because it was the previous government that proposed to change the system related to precisely this with limits on what to be wine, spirits and beer, based on percentages – already wants to evaluate this. What's our starting point is that we don't think of Norwegians as a more delicate race than people in the rest of Europe. We actually accept that people have to make their own choices in some contexts. Whether it goes at the limits of what is counted for wine, beer or spirits, I don't think I have huge consequences. I'm going to take a little parallel, if I reach it, that's the problem of Brussels. The turnover of rusbrus went to heaven because former councillor Valgerd Svarstad Haugland talked about it every single time she came on TV. Once the former Council of State stopped talking about it, turnover went down. Maybe we should also take it inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e187	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e190	There has long been a general objective here in the country that people's health should be independent of social classes. I guess most people have lived in the belief that things are going the right way. This year, however, we have received a serious warning in a report from the Social and Health Directorate that there has been no cushioning of social health differences in the last ten years. Well we've been familiar with, as it says in the VG today, that the life expectancy of men on the inner east of Oslo is 12-13 years shorter than on the west. In fact, Oslo stands out with the greatest differences in Europe. You have to go to poor and rich parts of cities in the United States to find something similar. But it's not just between Oslo's east edge and west edge that the health differences here in the country turn out. In what I dare say is the most important health document of the year, we can read that mortality also varies with education. Among men aged 45 to 60 with short education, over two and a half times as many as those with long education die on a national basis. Among women, almost the same is the case, according to the report Gradient Challenge from the Social and Health Directorate. If we look at mortality relative to high and low incomes, it varies roughly as much as for education. And the risk of becoming dissatisfaction is three times greater for male unskilled workers than for academics in senior positions. The lack of results in mitigating health differences over the last ten years is related to more fundamental issues than personal choices about exercise and diet. It's about we've done too little to develop the common solutions and great grips needed to eliminate inequalities in health. We must have broad, preventive health strategies aimed at the whole population, not alone at taking the most disadvantaged. Better well-being for all is the best general medicine, whether it concerns good and reasonable school leisure arrangements, trim facilities, mental health protection, better community health service, full child care coverage or good elderly care. Therefore, the most important health policy measure in this year's government budget is that we allocate SEK 5.7 billion more to municipalities. This provides new opportunities to address the shortcomings of care for the elderly and to build secure and liberal care. All problems are not solved by these means, but this is the first step towards fulfilling one of our most important election commitments: 10,000 new annual work in the care of the elderly during the ageing period. This needs to be followed up with a new development of the recruitment plan for health and social workers, including measures for the 40 % of assistants and carers who will have a different size of jobs so that they can make better use of their workforce – as pointed out by the entire Committee in its position. We need more resources and more hands. We don't want an elderly care where we cut services down to a minimum first, as a visit to home help every four or five weeks, as we see in the Right and Advance Party-driven urban areas of Oslo, or in Oslo's care for the elderly, where resources are directed from a central level. We cannot get down to such a minimum, so that the older people who can afford to buy extra services at rigid prices. Many people do not have money for this and will be left with too much care. If such a system develops, it will create new serious social health inequalities. We are against a system where you in practice become dependent on buying additional services, and where the wallet thus becomes crucial. In order to raise the level of parental care for all, regardless of the wallet, our red-green government will therefore provide the municipalities with 10,000 new annual works. The question is how this will be followed up locally. Among other things, we see: that, in a privatised stopwatch service according to the Right and Advance Party model, many new posts must be created at ordering offices in municipalities and urban areas. Minute forms are to be completed for each user, with strict time frames for toilet washing, dust drying and floor washing. Then you have to fill out invoices and send out bills for home services to the elderly in the east and west. Soon this shall also apply to home care. In particular, the Progress Party will have much more of the same order bureaucracy. They want a imaginative design where all care for the elderly is to be ordered via the Riksstrøgdeverket. This will create a crazy form field with a mountain of bills, orders and invoices to be checked and sent in all directions. What we've seen in Oslo, just becomes the first letter of this. This fundamental issue of care for the elderly, which marked the election campaign under the name of ‘stopwatch care’, is one of the most important issues of whether we are going to have greater or lesser health differences in Norway. When Erna Solberg replied to Haakon Lie's criticism that it is not a municipal task to do anything about the social needs of the elderly, she put clear words about the differences in health policy. One of the main challenges in the care of the elderly will be to develop new services for the 70 000 home residents suffering from different degrees of dementia, as a recent report from the Social and Health Directorate told. Here, many good measures are being developed around the country to continue on a larger scale. For example, the Memorial Centre, which was opened in the autumn on the Health of the North Sea and the Valley of Rome, is a promising measure. Another main challenge is to create better training and rehabilitation measures for the elderly and others who will start after treatment for cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, various cancers, strokes, etc. Here, too, a number of promising local initiatives are being taken to increase and improve the supply around the country in the coming years. We can mention Hysnes HealthFort for cancer patients and their families, which is a collaborative project between the municipality, the Cancer Association and Health Mid-Norway, which we also point to in the setting. Furthermore, the offer of training and rehabilitation is well distributed throughout the country. An area following is South Africa, and the National Association for Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Disease, together with the municipality, has therefore taken a commendable initiative for the Risør rehabilitation centre. Another area of health policy where we need to balance social differences is dental care. The aim must be to achieve the greatest possible level of equality in the dental care of the population. It is sad to hear stories about people who do not come under adequate public support schemes and who themselves cannot afford treatment other than to pull teeth and walk like toothless when they could otherwise put in crowns, bridges, geezes or what it should be called. Media lookups tell us about studies where 300,000 people say they can't afford to go to a dentist. Among them with a household income of less than NOK 100000, there was only 53 pst in a survey. who had been with the dentist for the last year, while it was almost up to 100 pst. among those who had income of NOK 500000 or more. It is such that even if the social security concept is ‘full coverage’, it means that the expenditure is covered by public dental tariffs determined by the Rikstrøgdeverket’s guidelines. Since price fixing is free for private dental practitioners, it can often lead to the patient still having to pay a low proportion that is far from everyone’s ability to afford. We say in a comment in the setting that these guidelines should be considered. A nationwide survey has revealed major dental problems and lack of provision for the elderly. Amongst the approx. 2 000 over 67 years of age in home disease treatment and in institutions participating in the study, both preventive and curative dental treatment was urgently needed. For example, 40 pst. major inflammation of the oral cavity, and 15-20 pst. had difficulty chewing, eating and swallowing. Norwegian Pensioners’ Association has dental health for the elderly as a neglected area to which they point in a specific point in their health policy programme. We look forward to a closer examination of how public efforts in the field of dental health can be strengthened when the sample report, which has now been consulted, is presented to the Stortinget. It is positive that the government in its revised budget is already starting to do something about this by improving the efforts of drug users and long-term prisoners in prison. There is a sharp increase in dental support in the form of new 41.5 million appropriations. kr per. years. When we talk about social health differences in Norway and in the world, the situation regarding vital transplants is an important topic. There is a precarious lack of suitable organs, whether in the case of kidneys, liver, lungs, hearts or other. In Norway, there have been an average of 200 to 300 cows in recent years, and according to the Foundation organ donation, a good part of the waiting list is still dying, including in this country. What can be done with this desperate situation in relation to the need for organs for transplantation? First of all, we need to implement new ways of recruiting donors. The question of consent to the fact that one's organs, after it has been established that one's brain is dead, can be used to save others, should all be asked at a few moments in life. It is necessary to find appropriate forms of information. This may, for example: become part of the registration with our permanent agents. Although many more report as donors, the level of organ use will be low, because there are medical reasons that make only a small proportion fit those who need the organs. Secondly, we should lift the ban on what is called xenotransplantation. It's about producing tissues and organs from some animal species that can be adapted to our body. Thirdly, we should allow research into the best and most future-oriented solution and develop suitable organs from stem cells from fertilised eggs, which can become all kinds of cell types in our body. Here too, research has progressed well in recent years, and new major initiatives have been adopted in countries such as the United States – California – Spain, the United Kingdom and Sweden, while developments in this country have remained silent due to the ban line under the previous government. This brings us to the ban on research on stem cells from fertilised eggs. On the basis of the Soria Moria Declaration, the new Minister for Health has gladly announced that in the summer she will present legislative proposals where we say good-bye to the ban line. - Is it the end of speaking time?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e230	Time is running out, but there's access to a line change, so the representative might be able to come back to some of the points then. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e235	I took this Bible with me from the new government. There's a couple of interesting questions that arise. The last bullet point in healthcare is to ‘reduce and keep health care at a low level’. I ask that the representative from the Workers' Party comment on how this is linked to the fact that the budget for the first time increases the proportion of free hospital choice in travel, from 220 kroner to 400 kroner each way, and secondly introduces a new component related to physiotherapy of 50 kroner for those on this diagnostic list. If this doesn't hit the chroniclers and those who have it difficult from before, I don't know. I'm very excited to hear if there's this kind of follow-up to the Soria Moria statement that we're witnessing today, that we can expect in the future? Or is there any more empty talk?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e244	I thank you for the question. It is right to reduce self-interest and have a social policy that is an important part of the work against social health inequalities and inequalities in the health system. The new government will start with the measures to lower self-interest 2, from NOK 3 500 down to NOK 2 500. The new government agrees with what the Bondevik government also suggested that there should be no excesses for children under the age of 12. We say in the setting of the red-green parties that we want to present to us a review of the whole distribution system in order to discuss it further, so that we can make new improvements. It's an area we want to have a lot of attention around, and we want to do more improvements than what's done in this game.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e255	In the election campaign, Jens Stoltenberg made a promise to the voters that he would not give one penny in tax bills until the care of the elderly. But he's broken that promise. He has given great tax relief to the highly paid – most of all to those who have the most from before, to use the Workers' Party's own rhetoric. It might have been interesting to hear what the representative of Bohemia has in that area. A survey was recently published among users of home care services in Denmark. There were 38 000 older people who received home services provided by private individuals, and they were more satisfied than those who received services directly from the municipality. That confirms what the right has said for a long time. You get the opportunity to have an influence on your own situation, which gives you greater satisfaction. You feel more secure by being able to choose. The quality of supply is improving, and diversity is increasing. My question is, why is the Workers' Party so opposed that people should be able to choose between public and private offers, as long as the public pays and it actually offers a better offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e264	The most important thing is that there is enough care for the elderly and enough care. What we've seen with the model I've described, which we have now in, for example, Oslo, is that you cut your resources hard, and for example. provide home care every four or five weeks in many parts of the city. Then it is not of great importance whether it is a private company or a public company that comes. What matters is that you get to visit every week or every other week, as it was before. It is the overall resources of the care of the elderly that we are most concerned about and that need to be increased strongly in today’s situation. Cutting down in order to be able to shop additional services from our own wallet, we are not in favour. With regard to the issue of taxes, the part relating to taxes on shares and taxes on wealth is increasing sharply for those with high incomes, so that the total taxation of the richest people in this country increases greatly with this budget. The income tax framework was laid down in a broad tax settlement, which was also included in the Right. There is a long-term nature of the policy underlying that part of the tax package.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e271	Medically assisted rehabilitation has proved appropriate for heavy drug users. The Christian People's Party is concerned that this offer is not the first choice, but a supplement to drug-free treatment. This is particularly important for young people, who can easily become addicted over a long period of time. The budget proposal from the previous government states that professional guidelines for medically assisted rehabilitation should be drawn up. Does the Workers' Party agree that drug-free treatment should be tested prior to the use of medically assisted rehabilitation, especially in the case of young people with treatment needs? And will the Workers' Party contribute to this being reflected in the new guidelines to be developed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e278	The medically assisted treatment of drug users is already helping a great many people. It is clear that we want to have the highest possible quality of treatment and to make the necessary improvements and to develop good guidelines. We will simultaneously initiate the treatment of as much as possible. Improving quality must be parallel to getting more into that kind of follow-up and that kind of offer. Of course, we are positive for a quality improvement, but we will also make this go on the rails and move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e285	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e289	I was in the intervention of the previous speaker for a moment in doubt as to whether the Workers' Party spokesperson in the Health and Care Committee we listened to – who spoke on behalf of his party and the government parties – or whether it was the head of the Oslo Workers' Party who was running a late election campaign and had not discovered that it was over. It was obviously both, and that's to a very good extent. But since Jan Bøhler spent so much time repeating myths about the care of the elderly in Oslo, it is necessary for me to correct it. It's been done a lot of times, but it's obviously gone by the representative of Bohemia. The background to the way home help services are organised – not just in Oslo, but in all Norwegian municipalities – is unanimous legislative decisions taken in this room and in which the Workers' Party has participated. They assume that each elderly person in need of practical assistance at home will be given a decision on the extent of the assistance needed, and a specified plan must also be drawn up to enable the user to know exactly when the assistance comes and what tasks are required to be solved. This is nothing specific for Oslo. The Central Association of Municipalities, where, as far as I know, a central labour partyman who is the leader – he is correctly resident in Bærum and is thus perhaps environmentally damaged – has arranged for all Norwegian municipalities to be able to do this job in loyalty to the decisions taken by Stortinget. I understand that there is a need for good rhetoric in an election campaign, for example. Stopwatches as a picture, but the fact that people continue to be actively brought behind the light by presenting it as if home help is provided in some municipalities in this country with stopwatches in their hands, I find it disappointing to be a way of running politics. It covers the realities and challenges that we all have a joint responsibility to solve. Unfortunately, Norwegian policy in general, and not least in the field of health policy, has developed a bleak tendency not to be concerned with how best to solve challenges and problems, but by who should be in charge of the response and be responsible for not resolving them. It's a destructive way to pursue politics in a democratic society, and I hope that the Workers' Party will soon end it. When the previous government presented its draft budget in the autumn, SV’s spokesman, Olav Gunnar Ballo, in the name of the Health and Social Committee, characterised the budget that he had best experienced – as far as I was aware – for the last decade, in terms of health and care budgets. There is an assessment that I agree with, and it is interesting to note that the proposal put forward by the new government has only changed microscopically on the proposal. The changes are safe within the per mille limit. This must mean that the new Council of State also believes that the proposal was a good proposal and a forward-looking proposal. Let me point in particular to the priority profile of Ansgar Gabrielsen's last health budget proposal. Russ and psychiatry – that is, taking care of those people who are addicted to drugs and who are thus also suffering many other social and health problems, in a better way than we have done so far, and upgrading the psychiatry within the whole of the healthcare system – is an important task. I conducted an investigation on priorities in the Norwegian health care system that was delivered to the then health minister in 1997, i.e. eight years ago. There we pointed out that during the decade that had gone by, i.e. since 1987, when the first prioritisation was delivered, and until 1997, there had been full agreement in this room that psychiatry should be given higher priority than the rest of the healthcare system. At the same time, over the ten years, developments showed that what had happened was quite the opposite, that the growth in resource use in health services was generally significantly higher than growth in the psychiatry field. The Council of State Gabrielsen is the first Norwegian Council of State to have, as far as I have registered, taken a concrete step to change this, by making a very precise demand in the letter of assignment to the institutions that health businesses should house so that the growth of resources to the psychiatry field would be higher than the growth of the rest. It's my hope that the new Council of State will follow that line, and use the tools in the system, to get to the overall priorities. Because it's a gravitational force in our systems that's easily going in the opposite direction. Although the objectives are correct, development tends to go in the wrong direction. At the same time, it is important to realise that there are many things in the development of our Norwegian health system that are joyous and positive. The media image often creates the impression of the opposite, that it's just misery, because the media always focuses on the individual cases where things don't work. The hospital reform was obviously an over-mature reform, and a proper reform. The fact that there is free hospital choice, that we have organised the hospital service so that all political responsibility is collected in one place, identifiable by the Council of State, has obviously been a proper act. As a result, in most areas the queues are much smaller than they were, much more patients are being treated, and there is reason to believe that we are exploiting resources better than we did with the old system. That is why I am amazed that the Government, prior to the evaluation of the reform, which will be completed in 2007, has already begun to reverse it piece by piece, by changing the composition of the board of health businesses. It is contrary to what was the Workers' Party's opinion at the time the Workers' Party government, with Health Minister Tore Tønne, launched the reform. I have not been able to find out that there is any clear reason why the largest government party has changed its mind, and now wants to reverse the reform at this point. We are facing a demographic challenge. In Norway, as in most other European countries, the proportion of the population aged over 60 is increasing. Within this group again, the proportion reaching a very old age is increasing and therefore is increasingly in need of health care and practical assistance. At my discretion, it should be a sunny premise that the older part of the population is entitled to the same degree of freedom of choice that we consider obvious for all other age groups in our society. We have introduced free hospital choices, which benefit in particular the middle-aged part of the population. We have largely introduced free school choices, for the younger part of the population. And it would be a strange form of discrimination if we didn't also assume that people in the third stage of life are entitled to themselves to assess the quality of the services they receive, and accept alternative offers if they are not satisfied with the quality. We are faced with difficult challenges, and they cannot face up to adversities, whether extra 5.7 billion for the municipal sector, or ten thousand years' worth of work to come sometime in the future. The major challenge of care for the elderly in this country is qualitative and not quantitative. We must not make the same mistake again as we have made over and over again — in time with the billions of older people, with the single market reform — that we have only been concerned with the quantitative aspects, and not been concerned with the content side. So finally, there's one point where we're going to have to invest significant power in the years that are coming, and it's getting specialist health and primary health services to pull together in a much better way than they do today. Perhaps the biggest systemic problem in our Norwegian health system today is that the two parts do not interact, and thus very many patients literally fall between the beds and the chairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e319	Is the representative to raise a proposal for a salary?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e322	I'm sorry, President. It was a forgetfulness. I will address the alternative draft budget from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e327	The representative of Inge Wohnning has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e332	When one hears the Right Representative here, one hears that he speaks warmly for the elderly and for those who are difficult and heavy. In the case of hospital treatment, many elderly people have to be treated in hospitals, and there are a lot of chroniclers. We see this year that the Right has chosen a different funding model than the one you had last year, they have chosen that only 40 pst. shall be effort-driven financing. According to the companies, and according to the professionals I have spoken to, this leads to fewer treated patients. Those who are hit are the weakest, and they are the chroniclers. Emergency and emergency treatment needs to be taken, waiting list patients need to be taken, and those who are then at the bottom are the chroniclers, who will now receive fewer treatments. Is it a deliberate policy of the Right that fewer patients should be treated next year, or is this simply a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e337	The position in the case of price financing is deliberate and thoughtful. But the representative asked the question in a form that could easily be perceived in another way, namely whether it is intended to achieve the results she described, and the answer to that is, of course, a categorical no. The truth is, no one knows the ideal mix of funding, whether it's 60 to 40 one way, 60 to 40 the other way, or 50 to 50, none of us know for sure. So there's a reason to try to get there and then evaluate the results when you know what the results are, and don't hesitate to postulate that the results are going to be one or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e342	As Inge Wohnning had in mind, we are concerned about the care of the elderly even outside the election campaign. The situation of those who have been cut off from their services and are required to trade from their own wallet is the same whether it is a campaign or not. I hear about that every day, and it's going to spread to several cities where the Right has power, all around the country. You skip what's at the heart of my criticism, that you have a base in the services at a low level, and then you have to shop extra services from your own wallet to about 500 kroner an hour. My question is, do you think it's an ideal system that we have an old-age care system that requires it to have a proper quality, depends on dealing extra services from your own wallet? I would also like to ask what you think about Erna Solberg's statement in the election campaign that it is not a municipal task to do anything about the social needs of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e351	Finally, what Erna Solberg said during the election campaign, and which I fully agree with, is that it is completely illusory to believe that all the needs of the Norwegian population, and especially the older part of the population, for example. the need to have someone to talk to at all can be covered by civil servants. It's illusory, and trying to imagine people the opposite is leading them behind the light. To the first question, it has always been this way in this country that you are allowed to buy the services you want, it has not been introduced in recent years. It's always been like that, and it's always going to be like that in a free society -- it's just supposed to be missing! There is nothing in the organisation of home care services either in Oslo or in other cities that changes anything about it. That's where I'll ask the leader of the Oslo Workers' Party to stop bringing their own voters behind the light.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e363	I have a question for the representative Inge Wohnung that I know a lot of people in this country are concerned about, and it's about the teeth of people. The Right Programme states that it is positive that individuals take responsibility for their own dental health, and therefore the Right will not introduce a general state co-financing of dental care. I know, among others. after talking to my own grandparents, that this may not be a statement shared by the population, especially those who often have to go to the dentist. They feel that it is a little positive that they have to take responsibility for their own dental health, simply because they often cannot afford it. I wonder what the party really means by this statement. Does it mean that if you get cheaper dental services, people neglect their own teeth and maintenance of their teeth because they think it's all right to go to the dentist? I expect the party to agree with me when I say that most people in this country think it is very uncomfortable to go to the dentist, and will do what they can to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e370	I can assure you that I share that reality. The question is simply: are we going to make dramatic re-priorities to the use of resources in Norwegian healthcare by – if I understood the question correctly – also allowing the most affordable part of the population, the age range between 18 and the retirement age, to receive partial or complete free dental treatment? At my discretion, it would be a dramatic error priority. But at the same time, it illustrates an important point: that it is very often the power of habit that determines what we consider to be reasonable and not reasonable. Many European countries have the opposite principle of what we have in Norway, namely that the public covers all dental treatment for everyone, while paying medical treatment itself. It's impossible to say that one is right, and the other is wrong. But priority must not be given to errors!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e381	One of the reasons we have the greatest reason to appreciate Norway, except for a great nature, is that we have a strong welfare state. Knowing that we are not left alone or left to our family if things go wrong is an enormous security. The welfare state is our collective insurance based on the idea of mutual solidarity and dependence. Today you need help, tomorrow it might as well be me. There's reason to remember that these are values we shouldn't take for granted. In many countries, there is no welfare country. One of the books that has made the greatest impression on me, is written by American Barbara Ehrenreich and is called «Buyed and underpaid: to live in America». [[not]] She wanted to test whether it was possible to cope as unskilled workers in the United States, with both two and three jobs, and found that it was not. The book made a strong impression because it shows in a simple way how wonderfully important the welfare state and the trade movement are to create a fair, solid and secure society. Millions of Americans work both double and triple, but still cannot afford health insurance, medicine – or for that matter – healthful food or a fixed place to live. They are ‘working poor’. At the opposite end of the scale, we find the rich and well-preserved, those who can afford drugs, necessary operations and extreme transformations – those who have access to the world's best health services just when they want them. For this government and for us in SV, it is essential to take care of the community and solidarity. We are concerned that social divisions in Norway have increased over several years and that increasingly large parts of welfare are left to a private market. We believe it is an important political task to address the social inequalities in health and the social inequalities in health services. We want to limit the share of health funds in private individuals and prevent the duplication of roles that have a wide range of health services, where people work part-time in public health services and part-time in private competitors. In NRK Focus on February 8th this year, we saw examples of how the health care system has evolved. A heart surgeon at a university hospital said that public hospitals are becoming infected by the mentality of private clinics; a more liberal diagnosis. A professor of health policy said we operate healthier and healthier patients. It is often claimed that privatisation has increased efficiency, but is it now so safe? Firstly, if profitability considerations lead to more and more patients being treated, this will have a negative and not a positive impact on productivity because resources are being wasted on unnecessary activities. Secondly, despite the intention to be neutral in priority, there is much to suggest that input-driven funding has some unintended and unwanted consequences for those entering treatment first in Norwegian hospitals. To some extent, there is a prioritisation of relatively healthy but economically profitable patients with simple treatment needs. This poses a threat to the equality of health services and the overall distribution principle ‘to those who need it the most’, to quote Olaug Lian, first amanunensis in medical sociology, in a chronicle in the daily newspaper after the Focus documenter. Thirdly, although the activity was record high last year, Norwegian hospitals also set a different record, i.e. a record in the number of unplanned rehabilitations, especially of elderly patients with complex diseases. This may indicate a short bedtime and/or poor interaction between hospital and primary health services. Many have for a long time warned against developments like this, because they see that it is both ethically questionable, unfair and undermines the solidarity to be maintained through a strong public health system. If private binge the cream by taking the easiest patients, attract the best surgeons by means of high wages, offer doctors favourable employment contracts and let them not take responsibility for training and education, it means that the public both loses competence, gets stuck with the heaviest patients, loses badly needed income, and remains indicted for inefficiency. We are also very concerned about the increase in somatic behaviour at the expense of psychiatry and care, which is about complex conditions that often require long-term and costly treatments. However, we would like to commend former health minister Ansgar Gabrielsen, who has proposed a lower ISF share, and who was ready in his newsletter that efforts in the care and psychiatry alone would increase more than in the somatic field. We are very pleased that today's Health Minister, Sylvia Brustad, is following this up, in addition to the fact that the Government is adding over 90 million to the care. kr. On the radio this morning, we could hear that the number of overdose deaths among young people is increasing. We're very concerned that drug policy must be holistic, adapted to the inequality between different people. We will do something about the criticism we have received from the EU that we are miserable at prevention among young people in Norway. A restrictive alcohol policy is absolutely necessary, but there are also good offers for children and young people, adults who are present and who care, and quick help when needed. The Soria Moria statement is very good at much of this. I think there is reason to hope for a great deal of upsurge from the whole Storting regarding rapid assistance, especially to young people under 23 years of age, an obliging escalating schedule in the drug field, the closure of the shelters, the investment in rehabilitation, after-sales and differentiated offers. Not to mention that we have to work for a more positive attitude towards drug addicts. There is today too much moralism, rejection and indifference on the part of society, and here we have a responsibility to be good models on the part of the Stortinge. In SV, we are also very pleased that the provision of dual diagnosis patients needs to be strengthened. Many people experience that they do not receive drug treatment because they are too mentally ill, while they do not receive psychiatric treatment because they have drug problems. It's an unworthy and unsustainable situation. We also believe that it is incredibly important that we provide good skills and knowledge for those working with children and young people in order to help them overcome the problems young people are struggling with. Knowledge of violence and assault issues is an example. Much of the trouble, and also the problems of psychiatry, is caused by care failure and abuse, and this requires much stronger awareness. We need to establish quality-guaranteed rape receptions across the country, quality assurance of existing receptions and ensure that relevant health professionals acquire knowledge of violence and abuse issues, and that Alternatives to Violence must be continued and strengthened are extremely important and a great victory. In Vestfold, the representative of Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen and my home country, there is now groundbreaking work in this field, called the Vestfold model against family violence. This is now to be spread to other parts of the country. For the inhabitants of Westfold, this implies, inter alia: that while it was previously such that the police could run around with a rape victim for hours to try to get a medical officer to take her in, there is now an intruder that works very well and that, with the new government, has received sufficient funds from the Ministry of Health and Health. I'll give you credit for that. Finally, I would like to say that for us who are from Westfold, it is extremely important that there is soon to be a solution to the problems associated with the sixth stage of construction in Westfold. We are pleased that the Council of State has taken this seriously, and that there have been meetings between the parties. We're going to follow this up. It is a very exciting field for which we are responsible. I'm looking forward to everything we're going to learn over the next four years and to everything we're going to do, whether it's about getting good elderly care and an older policy where you look at older people as a resource, or about getting a comprehensive drug policy, a strengthened psychiatry or a fairer health care system. In fact, I think we've done a lot in this budget, but there's a lot more to be done in the next few years – and the Soria Moria statement shows us the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e409	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e412	It was interesting to hear Mr. No. Marte Thorkildsen's posts. But I'd like to spend a little bit of time on a field that she smoothly went outside, and that's biotechnology. Fortunately, at least the representative was Bohemia in his post. The Soria Moria Declaration writes, among other things: the need to revise the Biotechnology Act in order to open up research on surplus fertilised eggs under certain conditions, including stem cell research, and to limit the use of pre-implantation diagnostics. The representative of Bohemia, who also belongs to one of the government parties, went so far that he would also want to open up the use of xenotransplantation, and notified it from this pulpit. My question goes to the Socialist Left Party in this case, because the reason why it is not allowed to do research on fertilized eggs today is that the Socialist Left Party voted it down in this room and joined the former government. My question to the representative of Thorkildsen is of course: Is Thorkildsen comfortable with the situation that has now arisen – it is to be researched on fertilized eggs, stem cell research and, in addition, the possibility of xenotransplantation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e421	I thank you for the question. On the SV side, we are very comfortable with the situation that is, and it is in this statement, that is, in the Soria Moria Declaration. That's what we're dealing with, and there's no xeno-transplanting point. Our parties are now following up what is in this statement, and will come back to Stortingen with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e431	I'm not going to put myself up in the previous line change, but just reminding myself that two of the three new government parties have so far been on the very opposite line of the representative Bohemian expressed, so this is getting exciting. My question to the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen is linked to the joint comment that the government parties have entered in the vote that attention is paid to and is pleased that the hospital reform is to be evaluated and that the results of the evaluation are to be looked forward to. At the same time — at the next moment — it is said that one is very pleased to anticipate the results by already implementing a very fundamental structural reform of the governance system for health enterprises. How is this hanging in hops, or is it hanging at all in hops? In my view, the order between evaluation and conclusions should be that evaluation comes first. Does SV have the opposite opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e440	The representative of Inge Wohnning is a man who has been involved in politics for a long time, and knows that this is also about politics. It should not come as a surprise to pay or anyone else that SV has always thought that we would have a stronger popularly elected control of the hospitals, and that we have meant this all the way. We also believe that we should have a national health plan, which we are going to elaborate in the course of the debate. These are things that we believe are clearly going to strengthen health policy in the years to come. And then we will also look at the results of the evaluation. But this is old news, so I don't think it's come as a surprise, nor on pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e447	SV and the Christian People's Party share many views within biotechnology and genetic policy. We stood together on the law, even though we later separated layers in connection with a single matter. As I see it, SV will have a key role in the work on the announced review of the law. It is our hope that SV will continue its scepticism against the sorting society and its policy for everyone's human dignity. The ethical debate we have had in Norway has been very important. This has meant that not only the views of the medical industry and research optimists have received attention. My question to the representative is as follows: Will SV be aware of the objectives of the Biotechnology Act and in the new government take on the role of critic of the sorting society? Will SV contribute to a comprehensive debate in which there will also be room for ethical debate and reflection? I think it is absolutely necessary that we also take the time for an ethics debate in connection with the revision of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e456	Yes, we will. I think it was a very «all right» line from the representative Davøy, it was constructive. This is a point that we think has many sides to it. This is not something that we're just going to "bulldose" through, or something we're going to pretend that doesn't have many ethical consequences, and that there should be ethical considerations. We want a proper and thorough debate on these issues. But what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, namely that we want to revise the Biotechnology Act so that under certain conditions research on abundant fertilized eggs, including stem cell research, and limited use of preimplantation diagnostics, is also adopted by our national meeting, so it should not be problematic. But how this should be designed, we want a proper dialogue and discussion about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e463	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e466	The position of the Health and Welfare Committee on the 2006 budget shows a high degree of agreement in health policy. The new government is following up the efforts of the Cooperative Government in important areas, such as high patient treatment in hospitals, escalation in psychiatry and care and more resources for research. The government has proposed an increase in the health budget in several areas, including: to the hospitals and care services, which the Christian People's Party has no problem supporting. However, we also want to increase the appropriations for the training institutions by 75 million. kr, which means that the hospitals in our draft budget receive a corresponding lower increase. The numerical differences between the Christian People's Party's proposals and the Government's proposals are not so great that they invite to a general debate on economics. That's why I want to take advantage of the opportunity to bring forward some areas that the Christian People's Party believes will be important to have a strong focus on the future. In my opinion, the following areas need to be high on the agenda: psychiatry, cancer care, treatment of chronic diseases and the content and quality of care for the elderly. We also want health policy to focus more on preventive and rehabilitating health work and to enable individuals to take better responsibility, under the guidance and advice of professional health professionals. Psychiatric interventions must be continued, and we still face major challenges both in municipalities and health businesses. The treatment chain in psychiatry is characterized by little context. The Committee as a whole expresses concern at the lack of coordination. I think we should focus more on mental health work in municipalities, not least in terms of prevention and after-care. It is therefore gratifying that the entire committee has agreed that the department will follow up the municipalities to establish multidisciplinary psychosocial teams. I am particularly concerned about the offer of children and young people in the field of psychiatry. We recently read in Dagbladet that more than 3,000 children are on the waiting list for treatment, and that 1 in 10 children suffer from mental illness. At the same time, it was noted that the provision of treatment is not adapted to the fact that drug problems and mental disorders are often related. We also see that mental distress in children can lead to a rash of somatic symptoms, such as mental illness. pain in different parts of the body. This kind of psychosomatic disorder is often not captured. It is vital that children and young people receive prompt help. Waiting lists for children and young people with mental illness must be completed as quickly as possible. Children and young people also need to be provided with treatment facilities in their own institutions or departments in order to ensure a safe and dignified offer where they can associate with persons of their own age and with equal rates of disease. I am also concerned with another group of children and young people who are often not seen by the ordinary auxiliaries. There are children with mentally ill parents and drug addicts parents. The previous government put this on the agenda. The Ministry of Children and the Family ordered two reports on the measures available and the professionals working with these children, as well as the funding they have, and not least how we can better monitor these children. One report entitled ‘Actions for children with mentally ill parents’ was completed before the Bondevik II government left. The other was planned for the autumn. In the previous government's budget proposal, 14 million were set aside. The Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' budget for action against children with parents who are addicted to drugs. We know that many children who have drug-abusing parents also have parents who are mentally ill. There is therefore good reason to believe that this initiative will also reach children who have mentally ill parents. The planning for the use of these funds was well under way between the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Health when the government of Bondevik left. I expect and expect the Stoltenberg government to follow up these measures. Another group of children and young people who have also been involved in the Justice Committee are young, unpredictable offenders who end up in a grey zone in terms of available measures. They are considered to be healthy for hospitalisation in psychiatry, while they cannot be condemned for special reactions. I am very pleased that an overall committee believes that provision needs to be made for this group, and that action needs to be developed in cooperation between health, social and judicial authorities. The Minister of Health is asked to contact the other two departments to find the relevant measures. I will then turn to another important topic, the care of the elderly. Much has happened in recent years, both on the institutional and housing sides, but also in terms of the professional content and understanding of old age itself and the various diseases of geriatry. Thousands of employees are doing a fantastic job in the care of the elderly, but they are asking for opportunities to do an even better professional job. I am very pleased that Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad will follow up the work of the previous government to provide a big message on the content and quality of care services. But if we are to succeed in improving the quality of care for the elderly, we need to put in place more measures, and I want to mention someone. Better cooperation between specialist health services and local health services is crucial, not least because there have been significant changes in the tasks and responsibilities of local health services in recent years. Patients who were previously treated in a hospital are currently in hospital or at home with help from home health care. This has, of course, given rise to new and growing needs for staff with a high level of competence in the field of medicine and community health care. Both the Medical Association and the Nursing Association strongly point this out. Of course, once the new government has notified 10,000 new annual shifts in the care service by the end of 2009, this is very positive. However, it is essential that these ‘new hands’ are professionals with extensive health skills. Patients who have ever been discharged from hospitals, patients receiving outpatient treatment, patients with complex disease images and patients in the terminal phase must be able to be confident that the public health service has the necessary professional competence. I'm talking here about the sickest sick, not those who need and manage with help for practical tasks at home and need social interaction. Every day, acute patients’ problems arise both in hospitals and in home care, which require professionally skilled evaluations, rapid decisions and proper responses. In such situations, the sickest and their relatives must feel safe. KS has also been very concerned about this lately. This suggests a greater need than ever before for cooperation between the specialist health service and the community health service. I would like to refer to the Wisløff Committee's report, NOU 2005:3, entitled "From Piece to Complete", which was delivered on behalf of the previous government in February of this year. The NOU has been at an extensive consultation and is now in the Ministry of Health and Welfare for follow-up. It contains a number of good and concrete actions on cooperation and coordination between the first and second line services. The committee also points out the need to strengthen the medical-professional offer in hospitals and says something about how municipalities can make better use of healthcare professionals, both fixed doctors and private health professionals with contracts. I expect and expect the Minister of Health to follow up on the selection's proposals and the many good hearings that are now available. There is also a number of comments within the Committee on this point. Finally, I would like to express the need for increased attention also to chronically ill patient groups. High expectations are attached to the future rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan of a number of organisations and individuals. It was really quite astonishing how many organisations were involved in this and expressed great expectations during the consultation of the Health and Welfare Committee. The Christian People's Party will engage strongly in health policy with a clear objective of contributing to the creation of better health and quality of life for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e508	We heard here earlier today that the representative Davøy used the term ‘sorting society’. When Laila Davøy and I were together on Monday at the hearing on stem cell research from numerous fertilized eggs, we heard that all the patient organisations and all the research communities were looking forward to removing this legal ban. So I wonder how you might think that researching on a few stem cells from abundantly fertilized eggs – it's probably only 17 stem cell lines that are currently used in the world because they can reproduce in endless rows – is related to the sorting society? How can it lead to some sort of sorting when we have a cliché of clear laws against dealing with legacy plants and against cloning people and animals? We will operate this within a public democratic health system with full transparency instead of only happening in global companies in countries like South Korea, Singapore, etc. Isn't it an advantage that we set this in motion within a tidy frame?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e515	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e518	Such a Christian People's Party sees it, a fertilized egg is an incipient life. At this conference, it was also said by several that we already sort people in Norway today. Preimplantation diagnostics that you now want to introduce actually means selecting and sorting. That is why this is an extremely important debate we should have in connection with the amendment of the law, where we also look at these difficult ethical issues. In Norway, as I also said in the article I made in the subject of biotechnology, we have a very liberal practice in relation to the dispensation class that was named a year ago. The liberal practice we have in Norway actually involves sorting, and this we have to look into in our eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e527	Over the past four years, we have seen an ever-increasing feature of commercial private hospitalists who have earned large sums of money. This was a wild policy of the previous government, in which the Christian People's Party actively participated. Does the Christian People's Party still want a strong feature of commercial private hospitals? I would also like to hear if the representative can say something about how she intends to treat the commercial hospitals in relation to the non-profit hospitals, which are run by voluntary teams and organisations, and which are part of our health plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e534	The Christian People's Party believes it is very important to have different offers and diversity in the health sector as well. What is important is that we have good public plans. There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party has its heart near the ideal private institutions. This was also the reason why the non-profit organisations in the health sector were excluded when some tenders were to be launched in this sector as well. The same was true of child protection. They should not necessarily be included in the tendering round. You could make direct agreements with them. I think the most important thing is that we have a good and thorough supervision of all the private institutions, and also of the public. But, as I said, it is important to be part of public plans, and there are also very good institutions in the health sector – the ideals and also part of the commercial ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e543	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e546	On Monday evening I was in Lärdal with two other representatives here in Stortinget. There was a public meeting there, and young and old were concerned that Lærdal hospital was to be a hospital where they could feel safe when the disease hit, or when the time came and you were to be born. The inhabitants of Lærdal, the inhabitants of Stord, Odda or Røros who fight for their hospital, express conditions of closeness and security as important reasons for maintaining the hospital. The Central Party's health policy takes on board the consequences of our motto 'With the heart of the whole country'. In our programme, we confirm in the Soria Moria Declaration that we will maintain a decentralised hospital offer, such as the one we have in mind. ensure proximity to emergency functions and food supply. No local hospital shall be closed. Division of work between hospitals is necessary. Not everyone should take care of everything. But the dismantling of the local hospitals that we have seen in many places must be stopped. An important future work will therefore be to clarify what a local hospital should contain. Local hospitals shall ensure the closeness and safety of disease. The model health enterprise has worked for four years. The centre party was a clear and clear opponent of the business model when it was introduced. However, we are pleased that the Government has already taken action on the composition of the board and decided that regional health businesses should be re-established in January, with four politicians – five, where there are more than three counties – proposed by municipalities and county municipalities. There is a lot of good public awareness in experienced politicians locally. They're able to see whole. Therefore, we believe that this is an important contribution to the good and healthy development of specialist health services in the regions, for the benefit of the population. The government has proposed to strengthen health businesses by around NOK 0.5 billion. It is necessary to maintain a high level of treatment and to reduce the migration challenges facing regional health businesses in 2006 compared to those underlying the draft budget of the Bondevik II Government. The increase that the Government is making will result in 20,000 more patients being able to receive treatment than with the proposal of the previous government. As regards the distribution of inequalities between health businesses, the majority government will consider a reduction in the transitional period in the context of the 2007 draft budget. This is important in the context of equivalent health care. There is one important matter that the Bondevik II government has not grasped. It concerns the depreciation rules and the investment regime for health enterprises. The center party and the other government parties know that this is a challenging task to go into, because it will mean great economic upliftment. At the same time, we know that a number of major construction projects are being planned around health businesses. The framework for investments in the basic grant provides for the possibility of recovering about 60 pst. of the value of buildings and equipment. It is not sufficient to solve the investment tasks. As stated in the supplementary proposal, the Ministry will review both the scope of and the facility for the investments of health enterprises, in cooperation with health enterprises. This work shall ensure that, within the overall level of investment, forward-looking and good solutions are established. Furthermore, the Ministry will consider the way in which investment is financed, with a view to finding better and more flexible solutions. The centre party is pleased that the majority government is addressing this major challenge. We now have four years behind us with a Right-dominated government. In terms of health, it has clearly identified itself. Private commercial hospitals have had good conditions in these years. The majority government underlines in its policy platform that such agreements should be limited and that the free capacity of the public should be exploited. I can refer to several examples in which commercial private hospitals have concluded agreements with healthcare companies, with the consequence that the patient base for public hospitals is undermined. This also endangers the local hospital function in many places. Such a development does not want the majority government. There are enough examples of private commercial hospital operators making a lot of money in a market that health business managers have opened up. The majority government is not against private hospitals or health institutions — on the contrary. I would like to refer to the Soria Moria statement that underlines that hospitals and other health institutions owned and operated by non-profit organisations are to be ensured good conditions through agreements with the public. These hospitals are part of the public health plans for specialist healthcare and are necessary and important elements of the overall provision of the population. I record that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, with the addition of the Advance Party, looks with concern at the conversion of the funding mechanism for training institutions. I would like to remind you that it was precisely these three parties – the three old government parties, with the subsidiary support of the Progress Party – that supported the conversion, which now means that all the financial responsibility for the training institutions was placed on regional health businesses. Indeed, the bidding principle has excluded institutions that have lost price, although quality is good. Of course, it is the quality that should be crucial. I think it's positive that organizations like, for example, The National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease is working on the realisation of new projects in the areas of rehabilitation and training. It is important that high-quality institutions run by NPISHs can be guaranteed long-term under this regime. Government Parties stress that user organisations must be included in the preparation by the Ministry of a national plan for development in the field of rehabilitation. We live longer, and the number of people who need help and care is increasing. It is important that we take these challenges, and that the Stortinget takes overall responsibility, so that the municipalities are able to provide a good and worthy care for the elderly. 5.7 billion kroner for municipalities is one step on the way. The government will start work on the care message, which will address care challenges on a broad basis. Both quality and quantity, closer interaction – as several have mentioned in previous interventions today – between hospitals and the municipal health service, and not least the financial framework allowing care based on individual needs and not on a strict stopwatch regime, must be ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e575	Policies are about power and will to implement changes. So far, what has come from the Government has only concerned positions and power. The government's unwillingness to implement changes in the health budget is total. The rhetoric is present, but there is not enough money in Norway. The centre party does not want the establishment of a basic ADHD research centre, does not want to support the introduction of vaccines for children against meningitis now, does not want to have a national plan for the prevention, research and treatment of diabetes. Last year, the Center Party said that the proportion of medicine and health care was considered to be a tax on disease. How, then, can the Center Party impose abstinence on physiotherapy and increase the proportion of people travelling to hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e580	The representative Fredriksen is talking about a lot that we're opposed to, and that we're actually not against in this setting. I just want to mention one thing, since in this context it is mentioned that we should be kind of opposed to introducing this with vaccines. The department is working intensively to integrate pneumococcal vaccination into the paediatric vaccination programme. It is simply a comprehensive work to be done when a new vaccine is to be introduced into a programme. It concerns the supply from the manufacturer, preparation in the municipalities, etc. It is important that a vaccination programme achieves good continuity, so that we do not risk interruptions. The Public Health Institute has been authorised by the Ministry to negotiate with the manufacturer and the negotiations should be concluded in the near future. The introduction will also depend on the manufacturer of this vaccine.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e588	There is broad consensus in the Committee that parents who have children with major brain damage should have the freedom to choose between alternative intensive training programmes, and that is good. But what surprises me and disappoints me is that the government parties no longer want to respect the choices of their parents, as they were before, while they were in opposition. They do not wish to take part in a comment that highlights the need to respect the choice of parents. So they say yes to parents having the freedom to choose, but they say no to respect what their parents do. This, I think, is a total lack of respect for parents' resources, parents' knowledge and experience. I have to ask the representative of the Kschilaa why the Central Party has changed its mind. What has changed with regard to the trust of the parents, after the Center Party came into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e593	In the Center Party, we have great confidence in the parents, the parents' knowledge, and that parents want the best for their children. The centre party has not changed its position in relation to this, that the parents are the ones who know their children best, etc. But when we talk about treatment provision, we know that there are other aspects that need to be considered. It may be that one comes in a situation where the professional expert believes it is different and better solutions than the parents come up with. But I think that most parents who are in such a situation will come to an agreement with treating institutions about the treatment for their child.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e598	The Christian People's Party is concerned with good abortion prevention measures. It is gratifying to note that in 2004 the lowest rate of abortion among teenagers has been recorded in the last 25 years. The Amathea Foundation offers a special offer to couples and to women who have become pregnant without it being planned. The centre party has been involved in commending the work done by Amathea to prevent and help pregnant people in a difficult situation. My question is, what is the reason why the centre party has accepted a cut of 1 million? The support for Amathea? Does this mean that the Central Party believes this unique work will receive less support in the years ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e605	It is a collective committee that boasts of Amathea's work and maintains this organisation and the important work it does for disadvantaged pregnant women and for couples. So there's no doubt about it. Once a cut of 1 million has been made. kr, is a cut that has been taken into account in relation to the entire budget. An evaluation of this shall be carried out, but it is not a question of weakening the care of disadvantaged pregnant women at all. As far as future budgets are concerned, the representative, Mr Davøy, who has been the Council of State, knows that in Stortinget we are not talking about what will happen in the future budgets. But that work towards disadvantaged pregnant women is important and will be prioritised in the Government, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e612	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e615	Well, good health is the most important thing for all of us, but health needs as well-known maintenance, and the provision of maintenance of health is therefore important wherever we have to live. The left has programmed that it is crucial that we have a good and equivalent health supply for everyone who needs it, when they need it. The health system must take the patient's suffering and the relatives seriously. I'm glad that in Budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2005-2006 by the Health and Care Committee, the three former Right, Christian People's Party and Left have a completely collapsing view. I quote from the setting where it says these members «points to St.prp. ‘These members will point out that it is essential to provide a good and equivalent health offer to all those who need it, when they need it. [[2005-2006]] Putting the patient at the centre is essential in order to achieve the best possible health policy.’ The left was the model of state health care. We note that there are currently no pluralities in the Stortinget to reverse the decision behind the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party. The left has programmed a stronger democratic control of hospitals and the specialist services through elected health care agencies. The background is simple: we believe that a strong public health system under democratic control is the best guarantee that available health resources are used to create an equivalent supply. However, in the budgetary position now put forward, we say – together with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party – that we have paid attention to ourselves. ‘that the Government will carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the hospital reform. In the view of the majority, it would have been natural to wait to take a position on changes, including: in the composition of the health business boards, until after the evaluation has been carried out.’;» Otherwise, of course, one might now change piecewise and divided, without any kind of holistic strategy. The left has pointed out in its programme that local hospitals have a very important place in the specialist healthcare chain. Local hospitals have also received a broad review in St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 by the Bondevik II Government, whose name is: ‘Local hospitals play a central role in specialist health services. Basic requirements for local hospitals are safety, accessibility and competence. [[...]] It shall be ensured that the offer of the local hospital is placed in a comprehensive and good service structure.’;» This leads me to perhaps the most important thing when it comes to local hospitals, the very content, i.e. the supply to local hospitals. In our program, we have tried to be quite precise, and we have said the following: ‘For full-scale local hospitals, it is natural to have emergency preparedness in internal medicine, orthopaedic surgery and/or general surgery, food services, anaesthesia sufficient for acute internal medicine, surgery and food services. In addition, X-rays and laboratory services must at least cover the need for emergency treatment.» Without defining content and at the same time telling the users what they can expect to find within the hospital walls, local hospitals will not be the security base for the population, especially in the districts, which they should and should be. Such concreteization as I have mentioned is, in fact, about political honesty. An important factor in maintaining local hospitals is to counteract ‘snail closure’. That is why I stress so much in my article today the focus on content. In addition, it must be noted that the framework conditions do not work against an honest desire for a decentralised structure. Such a framework condition is the level of reimbursement rates to the private laboratory and the X-ray institute. There's the expenditure growth that's known to be very strong, and one has asked questions as to whether it has been the right resource use. Something has been done to get better control. On 1 September this year, the rates of reimbursement to the laboratory and X-ray institute were halved. The point of that was to try to improve management and resource use. But perhaps one of the most dangerous, to use such an expression, is the superspecialization of medical specialists. Today, there are 22 specialties in Norway. In Finland, they have gone much further. There are over 40 different specialities. Article and twig specialization, or perhaps correcting an expression that I also heard in Lærdal, bud-specialization – a very good expression – is a real threat to what we may need most of all, namely a more tailor-made local hospital generalist. This I believe is a responsibility that Stortinget must take, even if it means that the Norwegian Medical Association must be stripped significantly for power. In the Soria Moria Declarations, the Government of Stoltenberg has been very clear when it comes to hospital structure. She says so, among other things.«No local hospital shall be closed». I heard Secretary of State Wegard Harsvik say at a health conference last Thursday at Nordfjordeid that – freely translated – local hospitals are at peace in the Soria Moria Declaration. In my opinion, the government should be in favour of this. However, despite the relatively persistent self-study of the Soria Moria Declaration, I find nothing about what local hospitals are actually going to do, i.e. what local hospitals should have. I think this is a serious defect, as I expect the government to prepare advice as soon as possible. I noticed, of course, that the representative in his post called for the same thing as I have now stated. The local authorities and specialists in local hospitals handle about 95 pst. of the health service issues. Stable conditions in local hospitals are therefore extremely important and an important commitment to good interaction, which many people have talked about today, and good recruitment both to primary health services and to specialist care services. Before psychiatry has one too far acknowledged that a decentralised supply is best. I am both proud and happy for the Bondevik government's strong commitment to district psychiatric centers. I am also pleased with the Bondevik II government's commitment to the care of Russo. Interaction between somatics and psychiatry is essential for good care. I have gladly noted that significant parts of the extra allowance of 100 million. This year’s revised national budget for the strengthening of local hospitals has gone into action in the field of drug care. This is a very important and necessary effort, which is fully in line with the drug-related reform of the cooperation system. patients with drug problems were given equal rights to patients on the same line with other patients. Although there has been a significant increase in the treatment capacity of drug users during the co-operation process, capacity needs to be dimensioned in line with the need for treatment queues to be decommissioned. The left will be involved and contribute to further investment and development in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e671	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e674	The representative Ludvigsen showed a commendable commitment to more democratic influence on health businesses, and I understood it that the representative was in favour of representatives of the board of directors with a background as elected representatives being a majority of the boards of health enterprises, as the Government now proposes. This is to better reflect the needs, interests and concerns of the population in relation to health needs. My question then is: why is there any risk that this will be introduced now? Why does the representative think that a more detailed evaluation is needed, more detailed assessment, before such a simple, democratic approach and an improvement in the governance of health businesses can be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e679	As I said in my article, the point is not to support this proposal for a change of governance now, that one has an evaluation going on, and it would be wise to see everything together. Everything is related to everything, someone has said, and I think it's the most important thing, to see everything in context. Today, too, it is politicians who sit in the various governments around. Who they represent, I don't know, but at least I know a lot of people who are recruited into governments that are from local and county policies, etc., formerly big people as well. If that's the best solution, I don't know, but what I think is the most important thing, as I said in my post, is content.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e684	The representative Ludvigsen showed a commendable commitment to the local hospitals, and it's an commitment that we share. But what we see as one of the major threats to the local hospitals, and to which the previous government contributed greatly, is the great element of private commercial operators and a system that has stimulated very strongly to competition under very different conditions. Then I will quote Knut E. Schrøder, who is the director of the University Hospital in North Norway. He said in Today's Business August 29th this year: ‘What politicians shouldn’t do is to make even better provision for a private market that could humiliate the cream by offering to resilient patients with low resource requirements. Which again leads to the public being left with all the heavy and precious suffering. It is not a good competition policy – and far from good district policy.’ Does the Left agree with this, and will they support the new government in a new course in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e694	I pointed out in my post that the left has fixed that we are in favour of a strong public health system. But that doesn't mean we reject all private actors. What we mean is that private actors within specialist health services and care services could be an important supplement. I myself have been in this industry for very many years, and I know private actors who have worked side by side with the public health service. It goes on, but it has to be connected in a good way, and they have to say quite clear orders, which are in line with public needs. Then it's possible to get good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e705	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e708	The attitude of the Health and Care Committee shows a great deal of agreement on the main course of health policy, which I am pleased to see. However, I am also very pleased that there is support for important changes in relation to the Bondevik II government's proposal for a State budget. In the case of increased hospital appropriations, greater efforts are being made to support care for drug users and to improve the management of prostheses, with a particular focus on better protection of large consumers of healthcare. The hospital reform has, as you know, been working for four years, and we have seen very good results. But it is already in our opinion necessary to make some adjustments. This concerns the composition of the boards, as several have already been the subject of the debate, in order to strengthen the regional and local anchoring. It is about strengthening the hospital economy as the Government is now proposing, so that more patients can be treated, and the waiting time is kept down. Our 500-million-dollar proposal. kr more for next year will mean that we can treat well 20,000 more patients than originally expected with the Bondevik II government proposal. At the same time, I would like to stress that increased appropriations are not enough in themselves. It's still a potential for doing things in a different and perhaps better way, and it's also important how the funds are used. The Government of Bondevik reduced the ISF rate from 60 to 40 p.m., while the basic allocation increased accordingly. This is something we agree with. This reduces the risk of the patient offer being turned away from patients not covered by the ISF scheme. First of all, this applies to patients with drug problems and mental disorders, and some women’s disorders. These are patient groups that both the Storing and the Government are very concerned about. The government is following up the work on the Roadblock of Mental Health. It is a goal that people with mental disorders should be able to live a dignified life in the most normal environment possible. In particular, I stress that children and young people should receive the necessary help, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. The average waiting time in the specialist healthcare service for the treatment of children and young people with mental illness is now three months. This is too long. Regional health establishments shall ensure that the waiting time for children and young people with mental and drug problems is reduced. In addition, I have now set up a fast-working working group to review the situation and propose how we can obtain a separate waiting guarantee for children and young people with such problems. In the opinion of the Government, it is necessary to strengthen the acute functions of mental health protection. Regional health establishments shall review the emergency facilities of hospitals in order to ensure availability and adequate capacity. In addition, the emergency and emergency services of the District Psychiatric Centres should be strengthened, including: by putting more emphasis on outpatient services. We also need more beds. Help is to be given primarily in the community where people live. Therefore, priority must be given to the community effort, and I think it is absolutely essential for us to succeed. Many municipalities have come to a great deal of work on mental health, but I think we must also acknowledge that for some municipalities it is quite a long time until we are satisfied, both in terms of the service provision and the housing offer. General psychiatric specialised services shall be provided at district psychiatric centres and psychiatric hospitals shall develop acute competences for severe and severe disorders. The extension of the service is on track, but the conversion has not come far enough. Some of the DPSs are still not professionally strong enough, and for many patients who are ready to print, who should have actually received a satisfactory offer in the municipalities, are lying and taking place at the hospitals. We will also give priority to the recruitment work for this important service. We know that there are many patients in specialist health services who have extensive drug problems and mental disorders. It is an objective that these patients receive a comprehensive, complex and concomitant treatment provision based on their overall treatment needs, and that, in each case, what is needed to achieve a better life is assessed. We know that many drug addicts do not get a good enough health offer. There is a clear need to address weaknesses and shortcomings that have developed over the years. Of course, something has been done in recent years, but I think a lot remains. The aim is to ensure faster access for drug addicts to help at all levels of the treatment and rehabilitation chain. Through our additional proposal of just over 90 million. kr more next year we will take the first step towards improving the offer for this group. I am very pleased that there is an overall committee that joins this draft budget, and at the same time underlines the importance of a comprehensive effort for those who depend on different types of drugs. We want to give priority where we know the needs are greatest. This applies, inter alia, to: dental treatment for drug addicts and a comprehensive offer of medically assisted rehabilitation. With regard to the issue of medically assisted rehabilitation, we propose a comprehensive reinforcement. Several LAR patients require both capacity and competence in municipalities, especially in the municipal social service. But here, too, we are dependent on an overall offer of housing, individual follow-up as needed and other measures that enable integration into the community. I also want to signal that I believe that there is a need to assess the age limit in terms of who comes under the LAR. Unfortunately, there is significant and increasing social inequality in health, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The representative of Bohemia has been involved in this debate. We view this as one of our greatest challenges. The health of Norway’s population is increasing, but progress is greatest among those with highest education and income. On the other hand, those who have little wealth and resources are more burdened with disease and with shorter life expectancy. We can't sit still and look at it, and the government will therefore have this as one of the highest priority areas in the years to come. We also want to increase vaccination coverage for influenza in those groups of the population who are at high risk of serious disease progression, and that is the background to the proposal of 15 million. kr for free distribution of vaccines to municipalities for up to 450000 persons. The National Institute for Public Health believes that all infants should be offered pneumococcal vaccines through the pediatric vaccination programme. This government will follow up the professional recommendations. It is an extensive work to be done when introducing a new vaccine. This applies, inter alia, to: supply from the manufacturer, preparation in the municipalities and training of personnel. It is important that this programme achieves good continuity, so that we do not risk interruptions or delays in the offer. I can assure Stortinget that we have worked intensively with this. It has gone quickly, and it is going quickly, and I can today inform the Storting that the negotiations are reaching a long way in the right direction. There are still some details, but the Government aims to introduce the new vaccine into the ordinary paediatric vaccination programme, and hopes to put it into effect from 1 July next year. Unfortunately, because of the tight local economy, staff coverage in the care services has not kept pace with the number of older people. In the government platform, we are expected to have 10,000 more annual jobs in the care sector by 2009. The well-known and proposed strengthening of the municipalities' free revenues of DKK 5.7 billion next year provides a good basis for such escalation. It is necessary to take back what has been neglected in that sector and also to meet the new needs. The government is also extremely concerned about securing people with dementia’s good service. Together with a stronger offer to the elderly in hospital, care for the dementia is one of the greatest challenges for the future. There are about 10,000 people who get dementia per day. years. The government will therefore design a comprehensive plan for enhanced dementia care, and provide money for research into care and the health and living conditions of the elderly, with special emphasis on dementia research. The government already wants to present a big message next spring where we will discuss the future strategies to meet the challenges across the care sector. We want an elderly care where everyone is to be guaranteed offers, regardless of gender, no matter how rich you are, and no matter where you live in the country. We want elderly care where users themselves should be able to determine the content of the help they should have. That it is of good quality is, of course, essential. There will then have to be sufficient time and assistance for each elderly person, or for others who need care and care. This government believes that strict timetables are not the answer to the important challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e750	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e753	The situation is still outside the municipalities, so that a good number of young people with disabilities live in hospital homes. This has been a well-known problem for a number of years. You've tried to do something about it, you've come up with alternative models, but nevertheless you're in a situation where young people with disabilities are still being put into hospital. This is not acceptable in today's Velferds-Norway. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council look at the instruments now being used to get young people with disabilities out of hospital? Will the Council of State now consider promoting a case related to the possible use of sanctions, or the ban on the entry of young people into hospital? It is not enough to put a wall in a nursing home and say that now it is residential, as you can get the impression that some municipalities do. It's not acceptable. I hope the Council of State will say clearly that something is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e760	I'm glad to get that question, because there's also something that occupies this government very much. I just want to make it quite clear that young people with disabilities or young people who get road damage, whatever the cause, are not going to live in old-age or infirmary homes. That's why, when I entered this department, I immediately took the initiative to review where we are now. It is quite right that there are some young people who have lived for too long in old age and infirmities – and they should not live there permanently. The last overview we have – because things have been done around the municipalities – is that it is per. today, two persons living permanently in old-age or infirmary homes remain. That's the overview we have. Whether that's the number or more, those people are going to get out of the hospitals -- and I can guarantee that I'll do everything in my power to get them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e767	Thinking about a number is in and of itself simple, and the number 10,000 is a very round number. However, I am not quite sure whether it is leading the idea on the right track, because the same government that has written this in its statement, refers to and cancels every other week for the 6-hour day. Such a reform will only hit the bottom of the 10,000 and more. Can the Council of State confirm what the Prime Minister said during the election campaign, namely that the 6-hour day is definitely out of date for this government? So to the second question. The evaluation of the hospital reform should include, among other things, I assume, the evaluation of the management function. If the evaluation shows that the original arrangement of the Workers' Party was correct, what will the Council of State do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e774	To take the last one first, as far as the hospital reform is concerned, we already know a good deal, and it's that people are consistently more satisfied with the offer they get now than before the hospital reform, and we know that on average people are waiting shorter than they did before. But that doesn't mean we're in the goal. Yes, we are evaluating, but I find reason to stress from this pulpit that neither the Workers' Party nor this government intends to change the main lines of the hospital reform. What we might be talking about are smaller adjustments of the type of government, which is important enough in itself, or other things. But the main part of this hospital reform is solid, and it's going to be solid. In the case of the 10,000 annual works, it is not that we cancel every other day on the 6-hour day. What the Government has put in place, and will implement, is a limited 6-hour trial, and it will in no way be devastating to get to 10,000 completely needed more annual work in the care sector during that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e783	The Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘No local hospital shall be closed.’ At the same time, it says: ‘The government will continue work on improving the division of work between hospitals, which promotes improved quality in patient treatment.’ Just a few days ago, I was with people from a number of health companies at a conference where Secretary of State Harsvik was also present. He said at that meeting not so much about this, but a little bit, and the frustration at the start of the discussion was basically great when it came to that very point in the Soria Moria statement. My question is this: can the Council of State clarify what is contained in the declaration on the local hospitals? Is it in what it says that the Government will continue the current strategy for local hospitals? Or does that mean that you're actually going to make a whole new strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e800	I think it is absolutely essential that people be absolutely sure that if they get sick, you can treat the disease in the hospital where they go. So quality is crucial. Then it is also clear that in our long-term country it must be combined with proximity. There are not two conflicting considerations, because the quality can be good at large hospitals and good at small ones, and there are great variations. The point is, we want to continue the strategy that has been adopted in the case of local hospitals, but there may have to be some further changes in relation to it. I believe that one of the areas we have to go into is whether local hospitals can play a greater role in relation to the challenges of the elderly, who we know have more complex disorders, and who fortunately live much longer now than they did before. The last one, in my opinion, is one of the best quality stamps in our society. I think local hospitals can also play a stronger role there than is the case today. So neither of them have to be put down. We must combine this with good quality for the local population.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e805	The Soria Moria Declaration states that 10 000 new annual works are to be created before the end of 2009. The councils were also involved in that in their articles. That means 2,500 annual works a year. I have to say the goal is very ambitious, there's no doubt about it. 2500 new full-time jobs in the care and care services sector will be a challenge for a sector that is already struggling to recruit skilled workers. The quick main calculation shows that these new additions will cost about NOK 1 billion. The red-green government is against ear marking. Then my question to the Council of State becomes close: Do the costs relate to these new annual works as an additional cost to the municipalities, or are these funds embedded in the increased transfers to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e813	We are now preparing a plan for how to get 10,000 more annual works during this period. It's ambitious, but it's very realistic. We're going to do this by educating more people, by re-schooling a lot, by making sure that more of those who want to do it can get to work more full time or get bigger job breaks. It is a recurring problem that many employees in the municipalities have such small job breaks that there is nothing out of it, either in terms of pay or other things. It's a question of doing something about it. And not least, we need to do a lot more to prevent so many people falling out of work so early. It is a huge challenge for so many young people — especially in this sector — to become ill or ill at a very young age. This is therefore also about an inclusive working life, which is a much larger matter, but very important in relation to this. Of course, this costs more money for the municipalities, and it is also obvious that the government will continue its escalation plan in terms of transfers to the municipalities, where we have started with NOK 5.7 billion more next year. There will be more in the years to come, also to meet this need.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e820	The point of progress is of the opinion that health businesses have been underfunded since they were established, and we find it strange that the Storting continues to grant insufficient resources and, at the same time, maintains the balance sheet requirement for 2006. As a consequence, Health Finnmark’s 2005–2010 strategy plan is to strengthen one of the two hospitals we have in Finnmark. Both orthopaedics, surgery and emergency medicine are proposed to Hammerfest at the expense of Kirkenes. The employees of the Church Hospital are considering asking the health director to leave. Action two equivalent hospitals call the health director a public enemy. Will the Council of State instruct Health Finnmark so that the Kirkenes get an equal offer within orthopaedics, surgery and emergency services as Hammerfest? Does the Council of State agree that two equivalent and full hospitals are needed in Finnmark? Or does the Council of State think that the offer of hospital services for the population should be worse in East Finland than in West Finland?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e829	In these days we work with the order document – as it is so finely called – to our regional health companies. Of course, that also applies to Health North, and I am well acquainted with the turmoil that is there. What is quite clear is what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration related to emergency functions and food supply. If any changes are proposed that go in the opposite direction to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, it should be on my table. So I'm taking with me the signals that are coming. I would also like to say that, in relation to AMK centres – I know there is a discussion between the hospitals involved – the Ministry of Health has been in contact with Health Nord, which says that after all there are two AMK centres also in 2006. I see that the budget round is not finished, but I think it is a wise starting point. I'm also taking the signals into the job we're going into. It goes without saying that Finnmark, with as many distances as it is there, is in a slightly different situation than areas where there is a little shorter between hospitals – so to speak.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e836	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e839	Every day we hear from this pulpit how important it is to take care of the weakest in society. It may be the most important task we have, especially those of the Health and Care Committee. There may be many reasons why someone comes under the term ‘weakest’. Some have social adaptation problems; others have innocent diseases. It is only to acknowledge that the Government’s budget for health and care services does not capture enough of the people who have different types of chronic diseases. It was good to hear the council say today that we are going to have vaccination against the pneumococcal bacterium for children who are suffering from cerebral inflammation. It also appears, after this was introduced in the United States in 2000, that there have been no side effects or complications. It's great that these people are being cared for. Another problem that our committee has to contend with to the same extent as the others is that the rule of action, which has never worked, de facto governs our economy so that it becomes more important to invest in shares in the United States than it is to take good enough care of our children, chronically ill and elderly. The government has a very low attitude to a national plan for the prevention, research and treatment of diabetes. We are the worst in the class of diabetes treatment for the countries we want to compare with, and we also know that this problem will increase in the future. When we know that a small country like Iceland has implemented a national plan for diabetes with its resources, it is clearly a task we must also take seriously. Where have the views of the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV become towards these vulnerable sick and weakest? It is not useful to follow up these diseases with empty rhetoric. If the government wants to do something, it has to go with money. The ADHD problem is also growing, and we know too little about behavioral processes. How, as a nation, are we going to be able to research and understand the problem of behavioral processes if we don't set up a basic research centre in Norway? If we relate the ADHD problem to the prisoners in our prisons, the prisons are overcrowded by people with behavioral problems. It would be very right for the individual and for the rest of society to take this seriously. But no, the red-greens go against it. Is the proposal from the wrong party coming, or is it such that we have too little money here too? As I said, taking care of the weakest and sickest is one of our most important tasks. For this reason, the Progress Party has strengthened the health and care sector in its budget and in its ageing by DKK 3 billion more than the Government has done. And why have we done that? It seems that the Progress Party is the only political party that has understood that we should take our children, the sick and the elderly seriously, we as a nation must be willing to invest enough in health. Then others will have to disagree with the priorities of the Progress Party. Of course, this costs, but the health of the population is more important than paper money abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e854	After all, I think there is reason to conclude that we have a good health and care service in Norway. It is sad that both the media and others are looking forward to creating a scare image of the Norwegian health and care services. We have a country full of good hospitals, with highly qualified health professionals, who care for their patients. The vast majority of people who get seriously ill in this country experience good treatment and care in our hospitals. In fact, I've met quite a number of patients with serious diagnosis. Most people are very satisfied with the offer provided by the Norwegian health service, and a lot of people are actually getting well. Across the country, there is a local hospital that provides security, treatment, care and care, as several representatives have been involved. There is reason to rejoice with the Soria Moria Declaration in this area, for it states that the local hospitals will pass. Regardless of batch association and government, the Stortinget has provided a great deal of support in many areas in the health and care sector. So let's be proud of it, but not satisfied in the areas where there are unsolved tasks. The psychiatry is obviously such an area. In the Workers' Party, we are very concerned with women's health. We trust that the new red-green government will focus on just that. It's also going to be done from our side in Stortinget. We need more research on gender differences in disease risk, disease development, diagnostics, prevention and treatment. We need to know more about the causes of e.g. osteoarthritis, fibromyalgia, etc., because we know that musculoskeletal disorders are one of the most common causes of women’s disease and disease reporting. Women with a minority background need special attention. Diabetes is widespread. As an example, 85 pst is developing. of all pregnant women with Pakistani and Indian origin diabetes. Women and men have a more equal lifestyle now than before. It gives us new challenges in health. Heart attack rarely hit women before. Now there is a common disease also among women, but it has not been given that the symptoms are the same, nor the medical treatment. Women smoke more, work more, stress more and – not least – drink more than before. It puts me on track of the next theme I want to raise, namely, intoxication. When it comes to drug users, most people think of them as being the easiest to see — the drug addicts. In the media, there's a disease that gets a lot of attention, and that's of course good, because we're occupied with a decent and good care for everyone who needs it. Nevertheless, I want to highlight the fact that the most important drug problem in our society is actually alcohol. Those who fill are no longer so visible in the daily streetscape. It's usually filled at home. Increasing alcohol consumption in Norway is not the most prominent, although it is the most damaging. Then we talk about irreparable damage to the body and mind due to high alcohol consumption, all the damage caused by drunkenness, and those who are subjected to violence, both outdoors and at home. Then we're talking about all the family abusers and injured child-minds due to high alcohol consumption. Norwegian alcohol consumption is increasing. We keep the holy stuff, but in addition, we adopt what we call continental drinking patterns, with wine for everyday use. It's a trend that affects a lot. It is timely to take this up just before Christmas. Christmas shall be a celebration of joy, not least for the children. So we know that for too many children, and adults with, Christmas is a continuous nightmare behind closed doors because of alcohol abuse. The point is not to kill the joys of Christmas for most people. This is not meant as a moralistic post to ban what is food and fun. But we have to dare to talk about this not being as fun for everyone, and that it is a major health challenge that we in this committee have a responsibility to put into focus. The number of health crowns used in Norwegian hospitals to treat alcohol damage is not small. Theme spending is also central to this year's budget. I'm very pleased with the addition that has happened in this area, sail if there's not too much focus on alcohol. I think it is time we put this major health problem on the agenda – not with index fingers, but with consideration for all those who are injured.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e882	It was good to hear the representative Olsen say that it is actually a good health and care service here in the country. I agree. She mentions that the media is creating a scare image of the situation. Then I have to say that I think the Workers' Party has contributed quite well both during the election campaign and in the four years that have gone by to create such a picture. For the right, user involvement, user choice and user-driven schemes in the health and care sector are important values. It's about respect for the individual, and it's about creating security. This is why we want to facilitate freedom of choice: the ability to influence your own situation gives you greater satisfaction, it gives you greater security, it increases the quality of your services, and it gives you a greater variety of services. For the Right, freedom of choice is not just a slogan, but an important principle. It's about securing individual power and independence in all phases and situations of life. Therefore, the Right shall continue the fight for increased freedom of choice, whether in the case of older people in need of home care, disabled persons in need of personal assistance or children and young people in need of schooling. But there's especially one area that's occupying me, and on which I want to spend some time. This applies to parents following intensive programmes for the training of children with acquired brain damage. This is a matter that I have been working on since 1999. It's a very important group and a vulnerable group. This is a unique group of parents who put down a significant amount of work and who are a large and important resource for their children. All children are different and parents have different opportunities to carry out intensive programmes over several years. I think one must have followed these families in their everyday lives to get an insight into the effort that their parents put down. They save society for many, many millions of dollars every year. Right-wing people expect health and social security management to find good solutions around each family based on equivalence, regardless of where they live in the country, so that they can feel secure that they receive the support and help they need and demand. These are families who have large and heavy care tasks, and they have to be saved to have to fight to get needed help. The size has previously drawn up important principles for the rights and opportunities to be granted to these children and their parents. A principle on which the Storting has been based is the freedom of parents to choose the training method. In a comment we say again: ‘The Committee considers that parents must have the freedom to choose between alternative intensive programmes for the training of their child. Children need long-term and coordinated offers.’ In this context, I am very surprised, as I was involved in the exchange of lines with the representative of the Kjellaa, and I am deeply disappointed that the government parties go beyond the principle that once the parents have chosen one or more of the intensive programmes, their choices should be respected. So the government parties say yes to the parents' freedom to choose, but no to respect their choices. This is a lack of respect for parents' resources, for their knowledge, experience and choice. This really upsets me. So this is the government party definition of freedom of choice. I suspect that, because we have seen the same attitudes regarding the ability of older people to choose home services. They say they're positive to freedom of choice, but only for the choices they think are right. They seem to be inspired by Henry Ford's freedom of choice: you can choose the color of the car you want, only it's black. They have previously believed that parents' choice of habilitation methods has to be respected, but now they have gone away from it. Now they're in government, yes, even majority, and now they really have the opportunity to show that they're taking their parents seriously. But now it seems to be the end of that respect. As I've been through, these parents possess a unique competence and experience, often more than many of the professional environments. The right and the other opposition parties believe that an autonomous user-driven centre of competence and resources in the rehabilitation of children needs to be established. Such a centre of excellence could play an important key role in Norwegian habilitation and contribute to the provision of good help to more people. But the government parties are also opposed to this. I think that's unwise, and again it shows a lack of respect for parents' knowledge and competence. The right will put good and functional frameworks around these families, so that the future of the children can be the best possible. It's a very demanding task for the parents – a task I have deep respect for, and I have deep respect for the job they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e909	The right to good and safe health services when disease occurs, regardless of income and where in the country of residence, is one of the most important pillars of Velferds-Norway. In order to further develop these welfare services, it was essential that we have a new government and a new majority in Stortinget. Only after seven weeks do we see that the course has been strongly changed, and that important steps have been taken to ensure that people experience that they are offered treatment and care with short waiting times and with the greatest possible proximity to the users. Local hospitals play an important and necessary role in our health services. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government has stated that no local hospital should be closed, but that the offers should be further developed with a view to a qualitatively good offer throughout the country. I come from a municipality where the local hospital, Orkdal Sjukehus, has played a crucial role in employment, housing and not least in providing everyone with a good and safe health service in the municipality and region. The composition of health business boards is important in view of the follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration, in order to ensure the professional development and maintenance of important functions, including in local hospitals, such as maternity wards, AMK centres and important emergency functions. Getting sick is something any of us will experience in life, whether it's a sail or close family being hit. It is then important to have access to good quality health services. The ownership of the necessary treatment and medicine must be kept low, and it is therefore good to see that the government of Stoltenberg has already found room at next year's budget to reduce equity participation 2 from NOK 3500 to NOK 2500, and that one follows up the Bondevik government's proposal to extend the exemption to all children under the age of 12. The party of progress is critical of the fact that the red-green government does not have the power to reverse the Bondevik government's introduction of new propensity. But I also see that the Progress Party is proposing 50 million. DKK for this, in return for a total cost of 250 million. kr. It won't be a full follow-up either. I am very pleased that the 2006 government has also found room to prioritise nearly 500 million. Dr more for patient treatment in healthcare businesses than the Bondevik II government had provided. The representative's salary characterised this as pro-miles. But for all the 20,000 patients who are now being offered treatment, this is very important. Strengthening the economy of hospitals so that more patients are treated, and keeping waiting time low, is one of the most important things to do with the country’s resources. St. Olav's Hospital is the largest domestic project we have, nearly 12 billion kroner. Unlike the Government of Bondevik and the then Minister of Health Gabrielsen, the Government of Stoltenberg has entered into a positive dialogue with Health Mid-Norway to find solutions for the completion of Phase 2. The cost of building a modern and forward-looking university hospital is formidable. Technology that was modern and forward-looking a short time ago has taken many steps further. New technologies and research will ensure improved quality in patient treatment, and it is important and necessary that a set of necessary resources in this area in new, modern university hospitals. In the Soria Moria platform, government parties have decided that the entire health business investment system should be reviewed with a view to finding good solutions for development and modernisation without affecting the patient offer. If health businesses are to be able to meet the expectations of society for a modern and good health provision throughout the country, they need resources to serve the loans and liabilities that we have seen around the country. I record in the media that former government councils in the Bondevik II government are questioning the election promises given around this with funding for new hospitals. The Bondevik II government did not comply in four years, nor can it expect the new red-green government to comply in seven weeks. Finally, I look forward to the care message to arrive. Here we will have the opportunity to work out a new course on how to develop the first line service offer. When a person starts from the Soria Moria Declaration, this promises good for our elderly and others who need care and treatment in the first-line service. The government's clear priority of the municipal economy with DKK 5.7 billion and 10,000 new employees in the care sector is a completely different course from the stopwatch care we have witnessed, among other things. Here in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e941	Through its draft budget and its observations, the Progress Party has strengthened the provision of treatment and health care. As far as psychiatry is concerned, the temporary escalation plan has provided better resources in both the municipal and specialist health services. However, significant challenges remain before the objectives set out in the plan are met. Further developments need to be governed, so that the offer is satisfactory, and you get an equal standard across the country. The establishment of district psychiatric centres must be followed up in the municipalities. The Progress Party considers it important that good measurement indicators are now emerging that can give a proper picture of the development and quality of services. Cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services needs to be improved so that it works in the best interests of patients, and this applies in all areas. The party considers that there is a need to increase the number of hospital beds in order to meet the need for hospitalisation. There it's been cut too much, and you have to see if you have to increase this again. It is absolutely necessary to increase the focus on child and youth psychiatric interventions, both in terms of prevention, treatment and follow-up, and efforts need to be increased in research as well. Last year, almost 40,000 children and young people under the age of 17 were treated for mental illness, while 3,000 were on the waiting list. The increase in the number of children receiving psychiatric treatment last year was 4,900, and it's alarming. It is important that the diagnosis is made quickly so that proper treatment can be started. The waiting time, which, according to the Council of State, is now three months, is not acceptable. The professional competence of psychiatrists should be used more effectively for patient treatment and it should be possible to treat more than an average of 1.8 patients per patient. day(s) All parties basically agree that continuing training in psychiatry and geriatry is important, and that psychiatry and geriatry must be given a higher status. But with regard to the economic efforts of older carers and chroniclers, the Progress Party distinguishes itself from the other parties. The big losers in the Bondevik government budget are the group of elderly and chroniclers, and this is also the budget of the red-green government. They're not much better. The red-greens are far more concerned with legislating the right to babysitting and getting one-year-old children into the kindergarten than giving old nurses a legal right to a nursing home. The free funds transferred to the municipalities are a poor guarantee for the large stakes on warm hands that there was so much talk about in the election campaign. Specialists in geriatrics are almost nonexistent, and the medical coverage of hospitals needs to be strengthened. At the same time, the number of older people over 80 and over 90 years of age is increasing, and the increase in elderly care needs to be proportionate to the increase in older people. Many rapporteurs have gone out and informed that the extra 5.7 billion transferred to municipalities will not be spent on strengthening care for the elderly. But now we have the Prime Minister's explanation of what the reinforcement is really going to consist of. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 11 November, it said: ‘Elderly care and schooling will be given priority because these are the main tasks of municipalities. If they get more money, they'll spend it there. If this means that it is not possible to cut down on offers, it is also a strengthening," said Stoltenberg." So now we know that. Older and nurturing people in the richest countries of the world may have to wait a long time for better times, for now we have been given an explanation of what the Government means by strengthening the provision of care. So there won't be so many more warm hands, but maybe some more culture houses. Earmarked funds or direct government funding for the care of the elderly would lead to a failure to deprioritize the elderly, as many municipalities intend to continue. The chroniclers will get worse in 2006. The changed form of funding for the now adopted hospital companies against the votes of the Advance Party is likely to lead to more people receiving hospital treatment, which was clearly and unambiguously demonstrated during the health professionals’ consultation conference. In the case of Health East, they have cut 13,000 days of rehabilitation for the next year. This will affect chroniclers and the elderly. Only the Progress Party opposes the introduction of abstinence in physiotherapy for chroniclers. This applies, inter alia, to: patients with COPD, asthma, gout, MS and hip and knee abrasion, and such treatments are important. This becomes an extra burden for a group of patients who often have low income, live on social security or have a reduced position. In addition, when the majority are in favour of changing the funding system for TNF-inhibitors, so that fewer people have access to important medicines, it is understood that this will be a difficult year. The government has many good promises, but when words become action, it fails. The fight for the elderly and caregivers must take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e972	I represent the Labour Party because it's important to me that everyone get the same opportunities, the same opportunity to get education, the same opportunity to get work, the same opportunities to create a safe environment for their children and the same opportunities to get treatment when it all means that one needs it, just like every cage, who is, or every one comes from. Therefore, it is important that the rare diseases are not forgotten. Therefore, we need to see that mental disorders can be at least as serious as physical. Therefore, a stronger economy for hospitals, one must keep the characteristics low, one must correct the imbalance between health regions, and one must keep the local hospitals. Therefore, it is important to raise support for the vaccination of all children in the world. It is important not to forget the rare diseases. Politics is not about numbers, it's about people. That some of the diseases that few people have do not make the situation better for that debt. Huntington's disease is an incurable disease that attacks patients both physically and mentally. Living with your family is getting more and more difficult. Most patients die 10–15 years after diagnosis. In Norway, there are 250 people suffering from Huntington's disease. There are 250 people who are sick, but many more who are ill. Huntington's hereditary. Half of the children will be predisposed to the disease, and those who are predisposed will become ill. There are 250 people who are sick, and many more who are ill, and the Storting has a responsibility to remember each one. The Committee concludes that there is a need for competence and relevant enrolment for people with Huntington’s disease, and it is important to focus on this work. It is important to note that mental illness can be at least as serious as physical. One of the problems that has been under-priority in treatment for many years is eating disorders. It can be a major problem and a serious suffering. Eating disorders are one of the most common causes of death among young women. One needs to focus on prevention and treatment targeting children and young people. Especially important I think it is that there is sufficient competence for the treatment of children under 16. It is important to strengthen the economy in hospitals, so that several patients can be treated and waiting times can be kept low. In the state budget, the government's government is adding 500 million dollars to the hospital. kr. Thus, one can treat 20,000 more patients next year than the previous government provided. At the same time, basic supplements are increasing, and the ISF share is being lowered. Then it becomes easier to prioritize patients with chronic disorders. Greater emphasis on primary care services will increase the priority of psychiatric patients and drug addicts. In addition, government permits 50 million. NOK to lower the part 2 from NOK 3 500 to NOK 2 500. The ability to receive the necessary treatment when needed should not be dependent on whether you have a good economy or not. It is important to correct the imbalance between health regions, so that all healthcare providers can provide the best possible supply. In the recommendation, the Committee points out that a transitional period of four years has been foreseen for the distribution of income between regional health care providers and the Government will consider a reduction during the transitional period in the context of the 2007 draft budget. It is important to keep local hospitals, so that everyone can have a good deal together every day, especially in relation to emergency services and food supply. No local hospital should lie down. Finally, I would like to mention that it is important to raise support for the vaccination of children in the world, for national health needs to be seen in the context of international health. Every year, millions of diseases we in Norway have been vaccinated against die. In the newspaper yesterday we saw how effective the vaccine work is. Norway's 500 million permits to the state budget save hundreds of thousands of lives. At each option, you have to ask yourself what's most important. The government's party made choices to use the big money on the big tasks and on the challenges that are too big for each one to solve separately. Government Party licenses 500 million. kr more for hospital treatment, 90 million. kr more for Rusty Care and 50 million. kr to lower the eigenpartial roof 2. That doesn't mean that all the problems will be solved, but that means that the challenges will be smaller than they would otherwise be. Politics is about people, and I hope there will be many people who will notice a difference to the better. Health Norway is heading in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1000	As mentioned earlier in the debate, dental health has also received its attention in the Soria Moria Declaration. We know that poor dental health affects the general health of people. The teeth are the part of the body that often gets less attention than other parts, but we know that everyone is busy looking all right, and that we'd like to be able to use for what they're meant to be, namely chewing. We know that more and more drops to go to the dentist, because they have bad finances. Of the groups that are the most disadvantaged in this way, drug addicts and long-term prisoners are in prison. In NOW 2005:11, which will be treated next year, it is pointed to the knowledge that there is widespread poor dental health among these. Drawing teeth was the only option for many of them. Almost 63 pst. by those checked in an Oslo study, it was recommended to draw their teeth. And the average age of those who were checked was only 38 years. This shows that there is a very bad situation, and that something has to be done. The same applies to long-term prisoners in prison. Many of these have drug problems and/or mental problems, while also having poor finances. This again means that the dental office is not the place that is visited too often. In the report ‘Levegy years among prisoners’, as many as four out of ten prisoners are below the poverty line, i.e. that they have much lower gross income than the rest of the population. Many have additional problems, such as chronic diseases and generally poor health. These are social differences that have to be addressed – as we do in the current budget. Projects that have been tested in the past, such as lowthreshold drug addicts, show that many suffer from dental frights, and very many have difficulty meeting at the agreed time. It is therefore important to find the right tailored offers, so that a prisoner picks up those who need it and can benefit from it. It's given the opportunity now when there's money coming to this particular group. Recruitment of new dentists will of course also be a contribution. The government’s budget proposal for Stoltenberg provides better opportunities for good dental health for drug addicts in municipal care and for long-term prisoners in prison. This is done through a systematic and targeted structure and by providing money. This important field is reinforced by a total of 41,5 million. kr. Diabetes is our new people's disease. Still more people are being hit. That's why we need to focus more on what we're going to do in the future. It comes with a plan of my own – I can reassure the representative of the Progress Party. The causes of diabetes are more, but we know that inheritance and environment come in, plus a triggering cause, which is often about lifestyle. Norway is now worrying enough at the top in the case of children with diabetes. But also type 2 diabetes, the one that's called old-fashioned diabetes on the populace, is growing. More and more young people get type 2 diabetes, and it also occurs among children. We need to focus on this. Vision loss is one of the complications. The Committee notes that too many people have random and unsystematic controls and follow-up. The Committee agrees that much better procedures and much better follow-up are needed in terms of both late complication and loss of vision. On the other hand, diabetes care concerns the pregnant diabetics, both those who have diabetes at the start of pregnancy and those who get so-called gestational diabetes. For most diabetics, pregnancy will be completely normal, with a good follow-up of a doctor and blood sugar check. But for others, this will be quite problematic. We see this particularly among immigrant women. Here it has to be followed up in particular. When we get the overall plan that the Government is going to inform the Storting about, we're going to look at how this is going to be solved. I, who come from Vestfold, am also satisfied with the work of the Council of State on the construction step no. 6th@item: inlistbox Long-term solutions are important in order to obtain hospitalization that creates predictability and tranquillity in the population. I know that the Council of State and the Government have a focus on that, and we very much appreciate that from Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1029	What are the major health challenges of our time? Is it the morbidity of people or groups, or is it the cultural directions of science, professional pros and market forces that still tell us that we can get even better lives – if only? If we just eat other food, trimmer more, get better people, if only we get a better body, get freer or a little bit slower, we'll get an even better life. The advertisement on the plane tells us, if you have health, you have everything. So, salvation is in health. Or is the greatest threat to people's health in the West that the market, trade and science builds up hope and dreams in a way that reduces our quality of life and makes us sicker? Ole Paus has said – or at least he has been credited for saying, "We have everything, but that's all we have." But it's certainly not certain that this will make us fresher. In this tense, between having everything or nothing, there are health challenges. We know that health and disease, life expectancy and education are unequally distributed. These conditions are not related to individual characteristics or will. They are closely associated with political priorities and political choices. These conditions are also reflected internationally. The West has everything, while other countries, especially in Africa and parts of Asia, have almost nothing. It dominates hopelessness, despair and stagnation. In our part of the world, there are almost no limits to what can be done, and our expectations of what should have been done are constantly being expanded. What creates good health? Yes, medical and nursing expertise, medicines, good hygiene, vaccines, low environmental pollution, the absence of natural disasters and wars, community participation and equality in income. The specialist health service and hospital structure are under discussion. Workplaces, district and professional and technological developments are often presented as conflicting interests. The development will soon lead to hospitals getting closer to us than ever before. In a few years they'll almost move into our homes and later maybe into our bodies. It sounds like a pretty unpleasant thought, but it's still not a foreign scenario. Therefore, the hospital debate must also address the technical and technological challenges we face. Where should the specialists work when the specialty is moved home to people? In the hospital or in the municipal service? What kind of knowledge do we need? Uncertainty about future structure and content characterises many employees. Anxiety is partly linked to economics. Therefore, the Workers' Party is very pleased that the Soria Moria Declaration states that more aspects of the health business economy need to be reviewed. However, neither employees nor leaders nor politicians must be led to believe that everything will be the same if hospitals only get more money. It's not like that, and it shouldn't be like that either. We need to discuss where we want and what opportunities we have. Predictability and clear signals are important. This is a priority task, and I am sure that the Council of State will find good solutions in the national health plans that will be submitted to the Stortinget. We have to ask questions if we have to think no longer than four years. We need to think about what the health world will look like in 10-15 years, because it needs to be planned now. Health policy challenges are fighting for peace, reconciliation, equality and fair distribution, national and international. This budget has taken up this challenge, and in all budgetary positions there is a red thread: redistribution, redistribution, redistribution. In this health and care budget, drug users, poor children, healthcare for prisoners in prisons and violent women and children are being raised, and action is being taken in a context. The attitude has clear priorities where the Government's value base shows the way. It is also clear in this budgetary position that political priorities are different. Other groups are being raised and accessed the welfare systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1050	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1053	I look at the budgetary position that the Right, Christian People's Party, the Left and the Progressive Party are concerned that the conversion of the funding mechanism for the training institutions has created uncertainty for the operational basis for some of these. Unfortunately, the conversion has not only created uncertainty; one institution has already closed, several probably have to close the doors. In Akershus, this applies to three institutions with solid traditions and thousands of satisfied patients. This is the result after Health East has completed the job of the majority of the Storting, the representatives of the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party, entrusting them by transferring responsibility for funding the training institutions to the regional health companies from 2006. As a background to omit, among other things: Hurdal Rehabilitation Centres and Godthaab Rehabilitation Centres show Health East that, at the time of the conclusion of new agreements, the emphasis has been on increased quality, and thus they need to reduce the number of places. I am asking the Ministry of Health and Health to look carefully at the agreements. Increased quality – yes, but for whom? I understand that the number of places that have been agreed on has been reduced by approx. 40 p.m., or 360 p.m., in the agreements concluded by Health East. Peter F. Hjort, our renowned public health negro, goes into the core of the problem when he refers to who is likely to be the loser in the conversion that has been made. Among those most in need of rehabilitation are older people who, after hospital discharge, are easily left to themselves, and quickly become so weak that they become dependent on the municipal care service. Godthaab has alone, says Hjort, received approximately annually. 1 250 patients with an average age of 75 years. Today’s political leadership in the Ministry of Health and Welfare cannot be reproached for the situation that has arisen. The funds for 2006 were distributed and partly used by health businesses before the government change. I am pleased that the representatives of the former government parties have now also seen the dangers of their own political choices. Among other things, I see that the representative Jan Tore Sanner barely allowed the new health minister time to take up his duties before he asked if she would do anything to avoid the closure of several rehabilitation institutions. I am also pleased that, from today's government, proposals have been made for measures that make the situation of the training institutions concerned a little less dramatic than it expected. However, I am afraid of the long-term consequences of the reform introduced in terms of funding will lead to the loss of well-functioning rehabilitation sites and a reduction in the supply of elderly and chronically ill people. These are unwise health policies with negative socio-economic consequences. I therefore expect the Ministry of Health and Welfare to ensure that the consequences of the reforms of the previous government are carefully reviewed and, if necessary, changed when you see what happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1068	There are many cases where the meeting with Health-Norway is both time-consuming and expensive for patients. For example, it takes a long time for patients with ear and balance disorder to get help, and too often the patient is told that there is little to do, one should rather say stop living. Knowledge of the disease that over 40,000 people in Norway have is too poor. Ménière's disease is not a status disorder, and many who have this disorder have a very reduced quality of life. I am myself an example of the fact that it is possible to get help, if an orc is to be broken, angry, seek out information, and people who know anything about the disease, and require the assistance of the doctors. I myself have given information to over fifty people who have approached me in their distress. Many have reported that they have had a much better life, because there are medicines that help. The fact that there are over 40,000 people with Ménière’s disease should lead to an even greater interest both in health professionals and the Ministry of Health in an overall offer and medicine for this patient group. I know that the Council of State is very concerned about this, and that's good. One of our major political challenges is that many working-age people are being dissatisfied. Many of these have Méniere and tinnitus or just tinnitus, that's just oesus. With a comprehensive treatment offer, many more of these could have been in full-time work. That's because over half of them have been dissatisfied. Briskeby School and Competence Centre in Lier also offer this group of patients, an offer called ReSonare. It is necessary to facilitate the economic participation of these patients in these master courses. Finally, it's very good that there is an increase in the rate of surgery for cochlea implants. Little children born without hearing, adults who have lived a long life without hearing, everyone should have this opportunity. It's a human right to hear, and technology makes it possible. Prevention is also important in the field of interest for these patients. Cooperation on hearing impairments can be to provide the Landsförbund and Norsk Rockförbund of Hørselsbehörde and Norsk Rockförbund, who work together, with a contribution to their application to save the hearing of the many who attend concerts, simply by sharing information and earplugs. There are small contributions that will make huge profits many years later. State council, please take a closer look at this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1085	The Bondevik Government, with the support of the Progress Party, must take responsibility for the fact that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the provision of training and rehabilitation sites in the Health East region, and especially Akershus, for next year. Conversion of financing arrangements and the economy, postponing the transitional period and placing on the market provide fewer places, and three institutions in Akershus are at risk of having to restrict or shut down their activities. This concerns the Godthaab Rehabilitation Centre and the Seamen's Healthheim Rehabilitation Centre in Bærum and the Hurdal Rehabilitation Centre. But it gives no satisfaction to be able to put the responsibility on others. I'm busy with the users, the relatives and the employees. The Stoltenberg Government concludes that the established training institutions have been given too little time for conversion. It has to be taken care of. It seems surprising that contracts for new offers that have not been completed have been awarded in the tendering round at the expense of institutions that have established their business over many, many decades, for example. Godthaab Rehabilitation Center. Even after this institution, having identified shortcomings in a dialogue with health authorities, has made large structural investments and improved health care staff, the result will not be an agreement for the next year, and notice of redundancies for employees. I have noticed that the Stoltenberg government in the supplementary proposition believes it is unfortunate that significant structural changes are being made in 2006 during the last year of the transition period. The closure of three institutions in Akershus believes I have to be covered by such a description. The Government also states that it is necessary to provide for the possibility for established training institutions of sufficient quality to participate in contracts for 2007. The only option here must be to avoid the cessation of operations in 2006, with redundancy and loss of competence. I am therefore pleased that the Government proposes to set up a separate grant for the development of training offers and that institutions that have not been given a renewed operating agreement for 2006 will be particularly relevant. Grants shall not be automatic without regard to quality, but quality development should also be possible in dialogue between institutions and health authorities. I therefore hope that the Minister of Health, in view of the views expressed by the Government in the supplementary proposal, will help the institutions in Akershus, which are at risk of short notice, to continue to offer training and rehabilitation in 2006. It's a strong wish. We can then take a more thorough discussion in another context on the assessment of which rehabilitation needs we should cover – whether it should only be purely medical rehabilitation or whether a wider range should be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1100	A good budget has become even better. This classic Jon Lilletun quotation can very well be used for the budgetary process in the autumn. As many have been involved, the starting point from the outgoing government in terms of the budget was not bad at all. Reduction of input-based funding from 60 to 40 pst. was based on the recognition of a number of unfortunate outcomes. They got more market orientation, got twists and priorities in directions that the Storting had not decided. At all, it had consequences that gave lower financial management. It speaks to Ansgar Gabrielsen's honor that he allowed the professionalism and not general ideologies to control the funding of the hospitals and reduced effort-based funding. We have also seen that the outgoing government has had funds for the escalation plan, so that it has been followed up when it came to the psychiatry. We saw, quite surprisingly, that a number of the self-proclaims you had expected did not come, and that a free card was introduced for children up to 12 years of age. However, the red-green government has been able to further strengthen the budget on important points, not least in the case of drug addicts. There's still a long way to go. We need to increase that effort over the four-year period, in order to provide a number of groups that fall out. I'm still going to draw out two points that I think it's incredibly important to go on with. We see that healthcare companies now dispose of approx. $70 billion, and that's an outrageous amount when you compare it with other budget lines. It's an amount that means that you're totally dependent on better financial management than you've traditionally had in the years of hospitals. Therefore, it is also important to look at instruments that improve this financial management. For many years, the Socialist Left has been concerned that we should introduce a national health plan, precisely as a management tool to gain overall control of both resource use and how to distribute the specialist forces. We hope that we will be able to achieve a progress that will eventually make it decided in the Stortinget. I record that the Committee as a whole has pointed out the need for better coordination between specialist and community health services. The Wisløff Committee has pointed out on a number of points mechanisms that can improve that interaction. I think that, among other things, the conflict we are now seeing in Finnmark, between the two hospitals and the municipality of Alta, is due to unresolved issues regarding the financing of specialist services. Then there will be conflicts in the struggle for scarce resources. I think that many of the conflicts we see around in Health-Norway today with regard to the hospital structure are resolved if you have predictability and know what you have to deal with in the years that come. Therefore, both the funding of the two-way service and an overall plan to describe how resources are to be used are important interventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1113	I am interested to note that the representative Sundsbø from the Central Party and the representative Bjørnstad from the Workers' Party, both from Akershu County, are deeply concerned about the funding of training institutions. Both representatives can solve their problems by voting in favour of the proposal promoted by the Right, Left and Christian People's Party to strengthen the post by 75 million. kr. I do not think the problem lies where the Special Representative Sundsbø put his finger, and where a unanimous committee – including his own party traps – has stated that they agree with the way the funding has been transferred in the responsibility of health companies. So I noticed with interest the article by the representative Gunn Olsen, who warned of the overwhelming tendency to black paint the situation in the healthcare system and in the care of the elderly. I participated in a discussion program on TV 2 the other day, where the intelligent question the viewer was asked was, Are you afraid to get old? You might as well ask, are you afraid to live? Or, are you afraid of being born? It was over 90 pst. as a black person who was ordered, yes. It is a result of a dangerous combination, namely a combination of completely uncritical and thoughtless journalism on the one hand, and equally critical and thoughtless political rhetoric on the other. It's a dangerous mixture. Therefore, I hope that not least the representative of Gunn Olsen's own party parties will take care of her warning. Finally, the council gave a rather precise answer to a question I asked her in a previous line change; therefore, I would like to clarify the question once more. A full evaluation of the hospital reform will be carried out, and it is said that it is open to review and change the scheme when evaluation results are available. I assume that the evaluation will also cover the structure of the management function. For the whole process of thinking behind the reform, which was proposed by the previous Stoltenberg government, it was that all political responsibility should be brought together one place, namely at the Council of State. Now, if you change the composition of the board with a view to putting political responsibility on the boards at a different level, you're disrupting exactly what was the basic principle. Therefore, I repeat my question as follows: Given that the evaluation now shows that the thinking of the previous Labour Party government was correct and that the structure chosen has worked well, will the Council of State take the consequences of it and revise it at my discretion the hasty decision she has taken to change the reform at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1124	I need to make a few small comments on what has emerged in the course of the debate. First, to the representative Jorod Asphjell, who believed that the Progress Party had proposed 50 million. kr related to the physical therapy bit and that it would not cover the increase in excess. No, in our alternative state budget, we're zeroing out the self-proprietary increase. It is in our alternative state budget, which fell in the context of the financial position. Furthermore, there have also been some comments related to this with paediatric meningitis vaccination. In this respect, it is a bit interesting that there is a proposal here today to include pneumococcal vaccination in the vaccination programme for children. In fact, government parties are opposed to that. You have to read the proposal, because we may have more faith in the Government than the others have in this matter. We propose as follows: ‘The size asks the Government to include pneumococcal vaccination in the vaccination programme for children as soon as practicable.’ It's pretty interesting if the government parties vote against this, when they claim from this pulpit that that's exactly what they want. Then it becomes pointless.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1138	Several of us have been involved in the debate on social health issues, pointing out that it is a broad commitment to well-being and municipal services across the country – DKK 5.7 billion to the welfare of municipalities. The main health measures in this budget are parental care, mental health protection and the school leisure system. We have pointed out that we need to avoid a trend towards making decent care depending on the size of our own wallet. Of course, there should be freedom to buy extra services, as we have in an open society like ours. But the common basic services that go to everyone must be a good enough standard. In some areas it is particularly about combating social health inequalities. It has emerged in the debate here today, and there are areas where we need to do more. It's about dental care. There has now been a selection position out at the hearing, with proposals for what we can do. That will be dealt with at Stortinget later. It concerns better access to organs to transplants, an area where there are acute problems also in Norway. We should introduce new measures in relation to that. The development of new forms of treatment, especially in stem cell technology, is part of a public, open and tidy healthcare system and not just remains at the hands of global health monopolies in different parts of the world. In this respect, the efforts to reduce waiting lists for the most serious and most resource-intensive diseases do not have to be weakened to the advantage of over-resources in the healthcare system moving towards treatment in private hospitals, many of which became new in the previous ageing period, the treatment of simple diseases for which it is more effective to escape, and then the price for which they are paid. We need to do more to reduce health care costs, including: in the case of physiotherapy. That is why there will be a separate evaluation of this, as the Government has announced, and we will wait for us to come back to new measures. We will take better care of drug users, and also help psychiatric patients and long-term cancer patients better, by making the basic funding of healthcare companies and hospitals now 60 pst. and the price of the unit is reduced to 40 pst. We also need to ensure a good enough standard of school health care in the further work on health inequalities, to get an overview of developments there and of other prevention measures aimed at young people. And we need to ensure a better coverage of fast doctors and medical specialists across the country, including in large cities like Oslo, where distribution is very different. These and other tasks are part of the overall strategy for balancing health inequalities that the new red-green majority will support. If we don't get a statistical increase in life expectancy in the Oslo East in the first four years, we'll eventually build a healthier society, so we can see that monsters also in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1149	First, to the question from Harald T. Nesvik and the proposal made by the Progression Party on a vaccine against severe meningitis: I would like to repeat that there have been negotiations here at record speed. The Government intends to incorporate this into the ordinary paediatric vaccination programme next year and to allow it to take place from 1 July 2006. So that matter I consider to be resolved. Therefore, there should not be a need to vote on such a proposal. At least the matter is resolved. So until the representative on pay comes up with the issue of health reform. As the representative also mentioned earlier, I believe that I responded by saying that the main structure of the health reform is solid. In the opinion of the Government, it shall also remain firm in the future. This means that there should be one head of hospitals, organised through healthcare companies. I believe that it is by no means hasty to make the changes we are now making in relation to the composition of the board. I believe there are active, sensible politicians at all levels, including from the Right. That's why it might be with someone from the Right on these boards. I don't think that's harmful to the hospitals and the patient offer in the future either. But it must be quite clear that the politicians who are going into these boards, of course, are going to work within the corporate model that applies, and the laws and rules that apply. That means that that's not the game from which you originally come, or the address on which you live, which is going to be decisive for the commitment to the board work here. I feel absolutely certain that we should be able to find a composition that means that we are getting more local and regional anchoring – here there has been criticism of the hospital reform – and that we are getting more democracy. I am therefore not as concerned as the representative for Wage – I am not worried. I believe that the thinking of the previous Labour Party government was right, and I believe that the current government also has the right thinking in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1156	I share the opinion of the Council of State that there are many wise politicians in all parties and everywhere. That's not the question. Even in today's regimes, the people who have held political positions are known. But they're not sitting there following an appointment procedure related to the political role. I note that this is a strange contradiction in the response of the Council of State, because she argues that there should be a specific quota for political representatives, while stressing that their role is not to be political representatives. And then it's a little bit hard to get the math to go up. My question is really still unanswered. Given that the evaluation process, which is likely to include the structure of the boards and the rules that have been applied so far in terms of the composition of the board, confirms that it has worked well and has been right, will the Council of State take the consequences? Or will she overlook the evaluations at that point?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1164	I'll try again to answer. This government has a very clear policy, and it assumes that the majority of the owners of these regimes are now to be active politicians. That's what we're doing right now. Then municipalities and county councils will make suggestions, and then on behalf of the Government I will appoint those who will sit on these boards. I believe that this is no problem. It's going to stand firm, no matter what the evaluation says. But the evaluation so far shows that there has been quite strong criticism of the reform as it has worked – lack of democracy, lack of regional and local anchoring. We've taken note of that. That's why we're expedienting this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1171	I took the word for the consideration that wages had, because wages consider that health businesses are governed almost as if they were given what to do, on the behalf of a government council. However, what has been a lot of the problem until now, and which changes it, is precisely that decisions are taken in the boards that in many ways become political decisions with consequences for the individual state and for the individual health business — which also say something about the structure of specialist health services. For this reason, it must be a strength, if wages believe that governments should be able to take some decisions on their own basis, that there is a popular anchoring of the decisions they are making, and that they are not taken entirely on their own without being involved both in this national assembly and otherwise in deciding what they are actually going to do. That's why it has to be a strength to increase the popular representation in the governments as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1178	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 731]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1192	A committed, rule-based multilateral trading system protects against arbitraryity, protectionism and the most powerful right. This is of great importance for countries such as Norway with an open, export-based economy. The same applies to most other countries, not least developing countries. Today’s multilateral trading system is based on the GATT General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade concluded in 1947. The background was the extensive restrictions on international trade and payment intermediation introduced during the mid-war period. This resulted in a breakdown in world trade, economic stagnation and unemployment. Thus, in the years following World War II, 23 countries — among them Norway — negotiated basic principles of world trade and the level of customs protection. The outcome was the GATT Agreement of 1947. The multilateral trading system is one of the best post-war examples of successful intergovernmental cooperation. The system has been expanded, further developed and adapted to economic realities over 50 years with significant political and economic upheavals. The WTO is today a global cooperation with 149 member countries and covers almost all world trade. The current Doha Round is primarily about ensuring the continuation of the role of the multilateral trading system. It is about updating and further developing the system in order to safeguard the overall interests of its members. One of the main objectives of this round is to contribute to the real integration of developing countries in world trade, so that the multilateral trading system will also be relevant to the 21st century economic challenges. Norway supports this objective. An end result must result in real benefits for developing countries in all areas. Negotiations are now approaching the final phase. According to the plan, next week the Hong Kong Ministerial Conference was to be the decisive meeting in which the final decisions on concrete reduction obligations and regulatory changes were to be taken. This doesn't seem to be within reach anymore. There is still a considerable gap between positions, especially in the agricultural sector. It is regrettable, but not unexpected, that these negotiations affect the vital interests of almost all countries. Hectic meetings have been held in the last month between key actors such as the United States, the EU, Brazil and India, among others. at the informal ministerial meeting of 8 November in Geneva, where the Minister of Agriculture and I took part, and at the level of office. This has not led to breakthroughs in the key areas, i.e.: concrete reduction obligations for agriculture and industrial products, including fish. However, this has not led to a deep crisis in the negotiations. The Parties agree to adjust the level of ambition of what can be achieved in Hong Kong. At the same time, it is assumed that the level of ambition of the round as such must not be reduced. The aim of the Hong Kong Ministerial Conference is to help make it a springboard for the decisive final phase. Norway has supported this objective. On this basis, there is agreement on a draft Ministerial Declaration to be submitted to the Ministerial Conference of the General Council of the WTO. The draft is not ambitious and essentially contains a status report for most areas of negotiation. Agriculture is at the heart of the negotiations. I experience a great deal of commitment from all the delegations in the country. The conditions for agriculture relate to important conditions in the economy of any country, but also to the culture, residence and social structure of any country. It is worth remembering that when it was negotiated about customs reductions for industrial products, it took seven full GATT rounds. It was demanding, and you needed time. In practice, agriculture was first integrated into the multilateral trading system through the Uruguay Round, which was concluded in 1994. This was done in the form of a separate agricultural agreement, such as: permit the continuation of specific agricultural aid schemes. In addition, customs duties on agricultural products are significantly higher than those on industrial products. The compromise that brought the Uruguay Round into port was a commitment in the Agriculture Agreement to the continuation of the reform process and to the resumption of negotiations within five years. In other words, we are now inside the second round, and the objective is very ambitious. The Doha Round mandate stated that agricultural negotiations should lead to ‘significant improvements in market access, significant reductions in trade distorting internal support and significant reductions in export aid closure’. At the same time, non-economic aspects such as food security, cultural landscapes and housing shall be taken into account. Further leadership has been provided through the decision of the Governing Council in the summer of 2004, including: by reducing the maximum rates of duty most, the question of introducing a tariff ceiling to be ‘evaluated’, sensitive products will have lower tariff reductions, while the number of sensitive products will have to be negotiated. The vast majority of developing countries support the demand for better access to rich country markets. In addition, most people want to protect their own markets. This is a requirement that we understand and will continue to support in the negotiations. The G20 group of agricultural exporting countries faces the market access requirement. The group consists of relatively advanced developing developing developing countries such as Brazil, China and South Africa, but also includes very poor countries such as Tanzania, small, poor Latin American countries such as Cuba, Bolivia and Guatemala, as well as a number of other developing countries such as India, Pakistan and Egypt. These claim, among other things: that, through seven GATT rounds, the countries have negotiated customs duties on the products they themselves have an interest in exporting, so that the level is now so low that they do not represent serious barriers to trade. They are now calling for similar progress for agricultural products, where developing countries have clear, offensive interests. But the concept of developing countries is not unique. To illustrate that developing countries do not appear to be a uniform group, I would like to highlight the problems associated with the so-called preferential problem. The 54 ACP countries, which benefit from historical customs preferences for key export products on central markets, stress that the issue of customs preferences is very important. They do not want countries to make excessive reductions in customs duties, as this will lead to reduced preferential advantages. The main conflict is between developing countries with preferences on EU and US markets and those who do not. On the one hand, ACP, African, Pacific and Caribbean countries, many of them with former colonial ties to Europe, many of which are among the least developed countries. On the other hand, there are small countries in Latin America and Asia, among others. Peru, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Uruguay, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. Given the overall negotiating picture, we have to prepare for a final result which means that those who have agricultural products to export are given the opportunity to increase their exports, also against Norwegian markets. Norway already has a significant share of imports of agricultural products. The government is concerned with the right to produce food for its own population and the possibility to maintain agricultural production throughout the country. The main challenge in the negotiations is therefore to meet the requirements for improved market access, while Norway and other less competitive countries retain sufficient protection and support to maintain the production of key agricultural products. Some suggest that our goal of maintaining agricultural production in Norway is contrary to our ambition to contribute to a well-balanced result for developing countries. This is wrong. Firstly, Norway is ready to cut significantly in all areas of the agricultural chapter: we are ready to reduce transfers, we are ready to reduce customs duties, and we are ready to reduce and phase out what we have from export support. All we can now say is that hardly any other country or group of countries will meet as comprehensive challenges as we do. Other countries are, for example, to reduce their transfers against increased market access for their exports. We do not make such demands, and the result in all areas of agriculture negotiation will challenge us. We are ready to meet this challenge, and in line with the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration, we are ready to carry out a full review of agricultural policy to see what will be required to continue a viable Norwegian agriculture throughout the country. However, I have found it necessary to stress that we do not have a mandate to negotiate the closure of Norwegian agriculture. A country which is a net importer of agricultural products, which has small exports, operates under particularly severe climatic conditions, and which has heavy objectives of housing and protection of the cultural landscape as important additional dimensions, must have the right to stress that there are limits to which adjustments we can take. All countries or groups of countries have their pain limits, and they say clearly about it. We have ours, and so do we say from. Of particular importance to us is the question of the reduction of customs duties and the number and treatment of so-called sensitive products. The bodies of the Grand Duchy have been kept constantly informed about the progress of the negotiations and the input from Norway and its neighbouring countries. Our alliance partner in the agricultural negotiations is the G10, a group of countries, among others. Japan, Switzerland and Iceland, which share several of our particular challenges. The Government attaches great importance to contributing to the continued functioning of the G10 as an active player in the negotiations. Since the Ministerial Conference in Cancún in 2003, Norway, together with the G10, has been working towards the introduction of a ceiling on customs duties on agricultural products. On the part of the Government, further work is underpinned by the absence of ceilings on customs duties as proposed by the United States, the G20 and the EU. In addition, we will work for a solution that provides flexibility for non-economic considerations and provides room for action on national instruments of agricultural policy. The draft Ministerial Declaration now seeks to confirm political understanding in some areas. This applies, inter alia, to: there shall be three bands of different reduction obligations for different types of trade distorting aid and four bands of tariff reductions. However, there is considerable disagreement as to the boundaries between the bands and the size of the cuts to be made in each band. Access to the market for industrial products, including fish and fish products, is another key area of negotiation. Norway has only offensive interests here. This is particularly true for fish and fish products, where customs duties are higher than for other industrial products. The framework of July 2004 includes: leading to the operationalisation of the Doha Declaration provision that developing countries are not expected to carry out customs cuts as high as in their own countries. It is agreed that the MUL, that is, the poorest countries, should be exempted from all obligations. It is also agreed that some other poor developing countries are only expected to bind their customs duties. The focus of recent negotiations has been on the type of formula to be used to cut customs duties and on the flexibility of the other more advanced developing countries. There is a broad consensus on a formula that cuts high rates of customs duties more than low, and that the rate of customs duties in a country should be cut more than in a developing country. This is in line with the government's view. However, there is no consensus as to the size of the cuts or the difference between the cuts in the countries and the developing countries. The draft Ministerial Declaration is without concrete figures. A breakthrough here will depend on the development of agricultural negotiations. The government will continue to work for ambitious cuts in customs rates in the countries and advanced developing developing developing developing countries. At the same time, we will help to meet the needs of the poorest developing countries. Norway also has clear offensive interests in shipping and other maritime services, energy services, telecommunications, energy and maritime insurance. At the same time, negotiations will help developing countries to benefit from the opportunities offered by the trading system for economic growth and development. Norway therefore proposes a balanced approach combining the need for results with the maintenance of flexibility for developing countries. There is disagreement on how services should be dealt with in the Ministerial Declaration, in particular there is disagreement on the Annex. As we see from the Norwegian side, what is now on the table represents a reasonable balance between the different views. We will therefore go further into Hong Kong and get a clarification there. According to the Government’s assessment, Norwegian interests have been properly safeguarded. But we also have a responsibility to clarify our willingness to support the ability of developing countries to develop their own economy and the basis for our own service sector, public as private. On this basis, and according to the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has carried out a review of Norwegian positions in the service negotiations, including an assessment of the requirements of Norway for developing countries. In this process, we have had close dialogue with relevant business organisations and non-governmental organisations, who have made a number of contributions on transparency, on the further negotiation process and on the Norwegian requirements. In line with the objective of increased transparency, the Government has decided to publish an overview of the countries in which requirements have been received and of which sectors. As regards the requirements for Norway of other countries, some countries have clarified that the requirements are confidential and that they cannot be published without their consent. For negotiation reasons, it is therefore the Government’s view that current practice does not change at this stage, but that this principle issue can be addressed at a later stage. There is a general perception in the negotiations that the poorest countries, i.e. the MUL countries, are not expected to take on commitments. Norway has therefore decided not to pursue requirements promoted to the MUL. In order to further clarify our positions, the Government has decided to communicate directly to the countries concerned in addition, that Norway is drawing on its requirements. In the assessment of Norwegian requirements for developing countries, a thorough balance of the interests of developing countries and Norwegian offensive interests has been taken into account. The government has stressed that Norway should not promote requirements that can be seen as potential barriers to the organisation of public services by developing countries. On this basis, the Government has decided to draw requirements for other developing countries in terms of electricity distribution, water supply and higher education. This is an important political signal. Otherwise, let me add that the so-called best practices apply in this type of negotiation. This means that the commitments a country is willing to assume after receiving a claim will automatically apply to all countries. The regulatory negotiations include anti-dumping and subsidies – including fisheries subsidies and free trade agreements. We also have offensive interests here. Norway has a particular interest in stricter rules on the use of anti-dumping measures. This is particularly important to prevent unjustified restrictions on Norwegian fishing exports to our main markets. Where possible, the conduct of the further negotiations on anti-dumping legislation should be further strengthened. The specific needs of developing countries are central to all areas of negotiation, primarily on market access issues. In addition, a package of elements of interest to the poorest developing countries is an important part of the text. The aim is for Hong Kong to achieve measurable results for the poorest countries, even if negotiations are not concluded in all areas. One element of the package is the proposal for stronger commitments from developing and developing developing developing developing developing countries on duty-free and quota-free market access for all products from LDCs. The MUL itself requires that countries commit such commitments in the WTO, so that arrangements cannot be changed or removed overnight. This is important in order to ensure predictability in relation to own investment. Due to resistance from several countries, it is likely that it will not be possible to adopt a general decision on such a commitment in the WTO. For its part, Norway already offers duty-free and quota-free market access for all products from the MUL. The EU, Canada, Australia and a number of other countries have similar arrangements. In Hong Kong, we will be able to give assurances that we do not intend to withdraw this scheme. We will also work to ensure that as many countries as possible provide duty-free and quota-free market access to the MUL. Another important element of the package is the treatment of cotton subsidies. The background is a demand from some poor developing countries, with Benin at the head, that different types of internal and export aid from rich countries should be removed immediately because they contribute together to world market prices, which in practice exclude poor countries. These countries have clear expectations of results here. The EU has notified the removal of cotton subsidies on a unilateral basis from 1 January 2006. The focus will then be on the United States, which is unlikely to have a mandate to address this issue in Hong Kong. As a result, this could be one of the most difficult issues at the Ministerial Conference. From the Norwegian side, this is in isolation unproblematic, all the time we neither produce cotton nor subsidize such production. However, it cannot be ignored that the management of this issue can provide important guidance for the management of agricultural subsidies, both in Hong Kong and in the wider negotiations. Let me add that today's newspapers write that this issue is among those that can lead to a breakdown in the negotiations in Hong Kong. That's how important it is for part of the participating countries. A third important element of this package for the poorest countries is Aid for Trade, i.e. a significant increase in trade-related assistance to enable the poorest countries to use existing and new market access for their products. The least developed countries today account for only 0.67 pst. of world trade, and only 0,2 pst. imports into Norway, despite duty-free and quota-free market access for all products. Norway will signal in Hong Kong that we will contribute increased resources to trade-related technical assistance, in line with the Soria Moria declaration. With regard to the possibility for poor countries to obtain the necessary medicines at affordable prices, the Government is pleased that on 6 December the General Council of the WTO decided that the so-called Doha Medicines Decision is to be incorporated into WTO legislation by means of an amendment to the TRIPS Agreement. Otherwise, we will be supporting other elements of the package from Norway, such as: include proposals for the positive specific treatment of the MUL in relation to different parts of WTO legislation. Negotiations on the simplification of trade procedures were not initiated until the autumn of 2004, and no substantive decisions are taken in Hong Kong. The same applies to trade and the environment. The draft Ministerial Declaration does not include substantive decisions in Hong Kong. During the discussions at the Geneva level last week, it was agreed that a number of specific issues relating to agriculture and industrial customs duties should be discussed among the Hong Kong ministers. In the field of agriculture, this includes, inter alia: the elements to be included in the formalities for reductions in customs duties and internal support, as well as the additional disciplines and flexibility needed. In addition, unresolved issues relating to the removal of export subsidies, cotton and the positive treatment of developing countries arise. For industrial products and fish, the focus is on the elements that need to be included in a customs reduction formula, whether ministers can solve remaining problems in terms of flexibility for developing countries, and the handling of unbound tariffs. We must therefore be prepared for concrete negotiations on these issues. Negotiations on concrete sizes are not envisaged. Such negotiations will, in practice, depend on the large players still agreeing that numbers should be on the table. There's no sign of movement here. But you can never know. That's why we have to be prepared for movement. A major task in Hong Kong will be to agree on a framework for the final phase of negotiations. We must have the ambition to take the necessary decisions and give the necessary political leadership for the crucial final phase of real negotiations on the numbering of concrete reduction obligations and regulatory changes. The major agricultural challenges will be at the heart of the government’s work in Hong Kong and the final negotiations. The Government will also work actively to ensure ambitious results in the negotiations on services and industrial products, fish and fishery products, and the tightening of anti-dumping legislation. Finally, I would like to stress that it is a central objective of the Government to actively contribute to the successful completion of the Doha Round. At the same time, we will act as a credible supporter for poor countries, so that the Doha Round becomes what it is supposed to be, a real development round.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1295	The President will now propose that, by reference to Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure, a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group, and with any final statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1300	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and thorough presentation, to which the Labour Party naturally gives its full support. The statement balances very well between two different considerations: Norway's offensive and defensive requirements for the WTO, including, inter alia: based on the demanding climatic conditions under which we operate our agriculture, and of course we do not have a mandate to negotiate in such a way that our agriculture loses the importance of ensuring the continuation of the multilateral trading system with a real improvement for developing countries, so that the system will be relevant to 21st century economic and social challenges, including the UN's Millennium Goals When Norway introduced duty-free and quota-free market access for products from MUL countries, the possibility of importing sugar from Mozambique was explored by the Norwegian side. But despite the fact that the sugar from Mozambique was very reasonable, the export subsidies made it cheaper with Danish sugar. We therefore still buy sugar from Denmark, and not from Mozambique. Prior to the negotiations in Hong Kong, a number of poor countries, with Benin at the head, as we heard from the Foreign Minister, have demanded that internal and export subsidies on cotton be removed – in order to allow poor cotton producing countries to sell their products to industrialised countries. But the United States, the giant cotton producer, is unlikely to have a mandate to deal with this issue in Hong Kong. In other words, things are going very slowly. Nevertheless, the WTO is important. And it is necessary that Hong Kong become a meeting place that keeps the energy up in the process, so that it continues. The alternative to fair free trade – with the necessary legislation and adaptations – is free trade. The strongest right: the strongest and the greatest take care of themselves. We also know that multinational and global companies are doing very well without fair driving rules, while small countries such as Norway — and the poorest countries — need a better organised world. In addition, global governance mechanisms are important to ensure a fairer world. We must therefore contribute to a good outcome for developing countries and take into account the fact that we have national interests, among other things. that we operate agriculture under severe climatic conditions. During a holiday stay at Ondürja outside Harstad this summer, I experienced how to take advantage of the uninhabited terrain with steeped mountains for niche production of goat's milk. This is a type of business we want to maintain — quite different from large-scale farming in the United States. We are, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed, nevertheless prepared to make significant contributions. Then, of course, we have very offensive interests in fish and fish products. This is important for Norway. We are talking about one of our biggest industries – with a great potential – where we rely on good trade rules for our exports. At the same time, I am pleased with the agreement that the MUL here should be exempted from all obligations. There is also a consensus that some other poor countries can be expected to impose their customs duties on industrial products, including fish. Let me so strongly underline the importance of Aid for Trade as part of our aid policy and foreign policy and as an element of that package in the negotiations of interest to the poorest countries. We need to focus much more on part of our assistance against the establishment of businesses in the MUL countries and enable them to use existing and new market access to their products. It is also important to ensure that MULs own food production is not competed at home by the multinational large group selling frozen food – in addition to the positive special treatment of MULs in relation to different parts of the WTO legislation. Then we in the Workers' Party agree that Norway is drawing demands on developing countries in terms of electricity, water supply, higher education, etc., in order to ensure the construction of its own public sector by the developing countries. This is really important. Finally, I would like to stress what the Foreign Minister said about anti-dumping. This we believe is important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1335	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for the thorough presentation. The Progress Party expects the Government to travel to Hong Kong with a great deal of willingness to resolve and that it will not be ruled by fear of what a new agreement will mean for agriculture. We feel that the focus of the WTO negotiations by the Norwegian side has been far too high on what problems Norwegian agriculture will face, and too little on what opportunities will be there for Norwegian fish exports. We also note that the Minister of Agriculture is here today, while the Minister of Fisheries has not found an opportunity to be here. Our message to the Minister of Foreign Affairs is therefore that he is now giving priority to fish, as it is for the nation as a whole, without doubt, where the main economic interests lie. There can be no current policy to say no to an agreement that is less good for Norwegian agriculture if it simultaneously slows Norwegian fish exports. A Norwegian veto must be excluded, and I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs can confirm that this is not Norwegian policy. An agreement that reduces customs duties and State aid in agriculture to, for example: one third of the current level will give households a purchasing power gain of between 2 pst. and 5 pst., e.g. because of cheaper food. So a contract in Hong Kong, or the extension of Hong Kong, will be a gift package for Norwegian consumers. The negative picture drawn by a possible new WTO agreement is therefore not correct. On the contrary, it will be very positive for Norway as a whole and for the vast majority of its inhabitants. The best contribution to combating poverty in the world is to liberalise trade, especially for agricultural products. 29 OECD countries spend $ 280 billion in export support every year. With that money you could send more than 50 million cows around the world every year in business class, and they could get pocket money to trade tax-free. That's how much we use to knock out the third world's most important industry, agriculture. So if we're going to do something that matters to most countries in the Third World, we're going to fight hard to get an agreement in port as fast as possible. Now it is said that several developing countries are concerned with protecting their own agriculture. Although I do not think it is wise, it is right that some developing countries should believe this. Nevertheless, it must not prevent us from opening up our markets in Europe and the United States, for although developing countries are not always of the same opinion, it must be done to find a country that does not believe that access to our markets is important. In international media, Norway and Japan are presented as staging points for the protection and support of national agriculture. Norwegian agricultural policy was also the starting point for an article in the Morning Mixture this summer entitled ‘Norway — the worst friend in the developing world’. We will ask the Foreign Minister to work to change this. And even though Norway, within the framework of the G10, has moved towards freer trade and less support for agriculture, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself has described today, as we see it, it is very reluctant and under a pressure. If we are to get ahead of the negotiations and get into port a result, which I think most people agree is the overarching importance of world trade and development both in Norway and internationally, some have to go ahead, and some have to change their positions. There are very small steps that have been taken so far. Here, I believe Norway can have a role to play by signaling that we are putting the importance of getting an agreement at the top, and that we are willing to do some action in this way. Let's meet the developing countries, let's take into account the fishing industry at the top, and let's give Norwegian consumers a real Christmas gift.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1350	Let me also thank the Foreign Minister for an excellent presentation. This is the first open presentation he makes on WTO issues. I think it is now important that it was held before the Hong Kong meeting, not because this statement involves a new course, but perhaps precisely because it confirms that the course Norway has followed for several years, continues under the new government. In fact, there is also a very important point here, because in this area, the change in government has not led to any change in course. The course changes that have taken place have then taken place in one or maybe in two of the government parties, and that is good. I know myself well, and support the formulations and views used by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the field of agriculture. I think we should be careful not to be aware that the changes in Norwegian agriculture will have to go through as a result of a WTO solution will be difficult and comprehensive for those concerned. There is also the background that Norway has been concerned about this side of the negotiations for a longer time, because we have very special assumptions here north. It's a little bit about the feeling of security in the nation, and that we want to keep an agriculture. It's just to create the freedom of action for this it's been a clear line for a long time to do this. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is following this line, although he has been forced to put on the table much more specified positions than the previous government has had to do. It also illustrates how much change we can get here. If the Foreign Minister will feel the need to move on in Hong Kong, the negotiating image will tell us there and there. But it is clearly important to deal with the negotiation situation there and there, and then you must not feel too tied up by the details you have given here at home at an earlier time. The government has the necessary freedom to do so at the right time. But I want to emphasize again that it is clear that this is going to be difficult for many. There's no reason to paint this. That's why I think you should also be careful about putting the sectors too much up against each other, in the sense that it might be like comparing apples and pears. But it brings me to the next point, which is of course worrying, and it's that when there's been so much focus on agriculture early, it's to move on. This is where everyone else's focus has been. What is now going to be the challenge, and where the Minister for Foreign Affairs was little specific – there is no criticism, but it is more of an expression of the negotiating situation – is how it should now be possible to move on properly in the areas that are offensive to us. In this way, we just have to stress the need to move forward in the other areas, and I am pleased to note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has had a special role to play in the negotiations on the rules. It will provide an opportunity to move forward in an important offensive area for Norway. We congratulate you on the assignment that has been given. So a few words about the service requirements. As I understand it, someone has been withdrawn. If that's what I have two things to say. One thing is that I hope it doesn't mean that the government believes that opening up to the developing world will harm them. In that case, it's a obsolete thinking. On the contrary, it may be important for many developing countries to open up to international trade in a number of areas, including services. The second thing I want to say about this is that I am in doubt about how much of a policy change this really is. Everyone is probably aware that the previous government said that you do not force on any result they do not want. When you use the word 'needs' in the WTO negotiations, it can put the thought on the wrong track. What it really is is a proposal for the areas in which we are going to agree. If you don't agree, you don't push anything on others. That was the attitude of the previous government, and I do not believe that the new government has a different attitude than that one before talking to the developing countries draws what was suggested to be agreed on. If there's any big step forward, I'm not sure. There might be more internal medicine than substance in that position. I noticed that the Foreign Minister presented the thorough reviews he had had in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. I would like to underline the significance of that. Those conversations give the opposition completely different opportunities to intervene in the process than a debate of this type gives. I would therefore urge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to continue with frequent consultations with the bodies of Storting. But, as I said, the fact that we are now being signalled continuity in Norwegian policy is important. That is why this debate will also be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1367	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough presentation, and support during the course of the balance he chose with regard to our Norwegian interests and the interests of the developing countries. It is very good that this WTO statement is given openly, so that the WTO issue can be debated in public space. WTO issues are no longer just about foreign and trade policy, but they have a direct impact on the organisation of services. In the field of domestic policy too, it is incredibly important that transparency remains and that this is debated in public after the Hong Kong meeting. On the GATS negotiations, i.e. the negotiations on trade in services, the former Director-General of the WTO, Renato Reggiero, said that the GATS intervenes in areas that have never been seen as a trade policy. I believe that neither governments nor businesses have yet understood the full scope of this agreement. The SV and the NGOs have seen it as very important that we get information about the societal implications here in Norway, and not least the impact on developing countries. At home, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, the debate has focused on the agricultural negotiations, while at the same time important negotiations are taking place in other areas which are crucial to the development of society. It's important to get there. The Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement here in Stortinget is an important contribution in this way. The Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded by saying that we will act as credible supporters of poor countries, so that the Doha Round becomes a real development round. And it's an opportunity and a responsibility that we have as a rich and small country, that can make maritime assessments. I want to make it clear that trade is not a goal in itself. It is a means that, under the right conditions, is essential for economic development and therefore also for social development. From the point of view of the SV, trade must be subordinated to fundamental social considerations such as employment, the environment, social and cultural development and food sovereignty, and not least to the ability of developing countries to protect national industries until they are able to compete on the international markets, as we had an opportunity up here in the north. I would like to make it clear that not a single country has the power to develop justice and democracy for the large population groups without the ability to protect its own resources and interests. Yes, world trade needs rules of play, but there must be rules of play that can satisfy greedy market forces and be based on the interests of ordinary people, of the poor and of the environment. The representative Jan Petersen said that this statement does not imply a new course. I would say that there is one information that the Minister for Foreign Affairs came with that there is reason to rejoice, and that I believe is a new course. In the GATS negotiations, as the Foreign Minister said, we will now draw all demands on the MUL countries and all the other developing countries in terms of power supply, water supply and higher education — in other words, basic infrastructure. The GATS logic means that developing countries will not be able to do as today’s industrialized country has been doing for more than 100 years, namely to keep parts of society off the market. GATS, I would say, will push for liberalisation and privatisation, and it is the major multinational companies that will primarily benefit from it. So it's this basic logic that Norway is now breaking up with. Then it's right that the best-principle applies. What Norway is doing today is giving a very important political signal. It is a victory for the NGOs that have had close and close contact with politicians, trade unions and NGOs in the developing world. It's a vitamin injection to the many who are now mobilizing for a fairer trade. I note that there are more and more people coming on the road in this area both at home, in the developing world and not least in Africa. Then I will back up what the Foreign Minister said about the agricultural negotiations. I don't have time to say anything about it in particular, but I just want to make it clear that the most important thing now is to get a date for the liquidation of export subsidies without any conditions – and we have a special responsibility to look into that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1390	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good outcome of the WTO negotiations. I would also like to congratulate and express the support of the Foreign Minister, who must have a central role in the negotiations in the area of trade rules and anti-dumping. It increases the potential for real Norwegian influence. However, we are aware that there are complex negotiations and that the Norwegian positions are under pressure. The expectations of the Hong Kong meeting have been reduced, but the Christian People's Party hopes that real and concrete decisions will be taken at the ministerial meeting, so that negotiations can be concluded by the end of 2006, as envisaged in the Doha Declaration. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen global legislation. We believe that the challenges of an increasingly globalised value can best be solved through coordination and interaction and through a more robust and rules-based multilateral trading system. The Christian People's Party therefore calls on the Government to actively participate in the Hong Kong Ministerial Conference, secure the processes and further progress in the negotiations. In the agricultural sector, market access, internal aid and export aid are to be negotiated. In the agricultural field, we have mainly defensive interests. There will be very demanding negotiations for Norway, and the outcome will be a lot to say about how we can secure agriculture and living areas throughout Norway in the future. I want to underline what the Foreign Minister said about the special challenges Norway faces in the field of agriculture. The kind of nuances are necessary, and here's a dramatic recording for the industry, and then we don't have to accept such a problem, like that. The representative, Mr Höglund, has presented today that we are not going to be rich in this area. The truth is, we've made a lot of money, so it'll be a real challenge to maintain an agricultural situation in the whole country. We have to do that, but we have to talk the truth about that situation. The Christian People's Party supports the objective of developing countries receiving special treatment. It is precisely those who are going to be the focus of this round, and although the level of ambition for the Hong Kong meeting has been reduced, we do not need to reduce the level of ambition for the Doha Round at the same time. The Christian People's Party believes in trade as an important factor in achieving sustainable growth and prosperity in developing countries. A major challenge for developing countries is that they are unable to export their goods. We must therefore use this round to increase market access for developing countries both in terms of agriculture and in terms of industrial goods. Agriculture has played a central role in the development of modern Norway. Similarly, agriculture will be an important factor in achieving sustainable development for many developing countries. In individual developing countries, agriculture employed over 80 pst. of the population. But here again, we also need to take action to enable developing countries to have an infrastructure that allows them to export. Why is there almost no MUL country that has been able to exploit the customs freedom that we have given so far? This is because there is no infrastructure and a quality assurance system right there. Without the system and the major changes proposed, developing countries will lose for advanced countries when it comes to agricultural production. It will affect the poor. I have a question in an area that the Foreign Minister was not in, and it concerns the TRIPS agreement – patent and pharmaceutical negotiations. The central element of the agreement is that it imposes certain minimum requirements on the protection of intellectual property rights as obligations on Member States to transpose into their legislation. Here, developing countries have been greatly concerned that this will prevent them from getting vital medicine at a price that they are actually able to pay. I hope that the Foreign Minister will be able to confirm that one is aware of the needs of developing countries and that one is also involved in the Norwegian negotiating arrangement. A attractor was warned that demands were made for power supply, water supply and higher education. I think it's important that developing countries themselves have control over exactly those sectors. If this is a substantive change, I'm not so over-informed about, but as a signal it may be important, and the Christian People's Party supports it. I want to close the Foreign Minister by finding the balance between making sure that the poor developing countries get better, and that living settlements still exist in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1409	Representatives of the outgoing government say and repeat that the new government came to a covered table. It is tempting to use this image also in connection with WTO negotiations, because it is worth considering and asking the question: What would have happened if the previous government had been allowed to continue? How would it have gone with the amount of Norwegian food on the table, on the menu in the future? It is very gratifying that we have been given a new government – which was absolutely necessary – with a new foreign minister and Minister of Agriculture who makes the necessary decisions, but in such a way that an offensive takes care of our national interests. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a statement that shows that we have a government that is actively fighting to preserve Norway's ability to pursue an active agricultural policy in order to secure the basis for small-scale family farming throughout the country. It is a matter of own food production, it is a matter of serious ringing and, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, of culture, of housing and of social structure. Today's government has, among other things, the following four points in their bases: Work to promote an international trade regime in which environmental, professional and social rights, food security and development in poor countries are to be given decisive weight. Trade liberalisation must only take place within a framework that takes account of distribution, basic social standards, environment and national food security.The WTO Agreement must not deprive poor countries of the right to governance and instruments that have been important to develop our own society into a welfare society. There are clear wordings in the government statement against social dumping. There are clear wordings in the statement in relation to income opportunities in Norwegian agriculture. It makes it safe for the individual wage earner. It also makes it safe for the Norwegian farmer. Some have tried in the debate to draw up a contradiction between Norwegian farmers and poor countries in the world. Of course, there is no basis for this, for which the foreign minister has just done well. Those who want above all to focus on liberalised trade in food are multinational companies from the EU, the United States, Brazil and Australia. Norway and the poorest countries in the world have a common interest in a WTO legislation protecting the production of food for their own people. The poorest countries need is not a freest possible world trade. What they need is market access for their products through customs preferences. In addition, they need the opportunity to protect their own business and their own economy in a build-up phase. Norway has offensive interests in a range of areas, such as: fish, fishery product and shipping. Of course, the central party agrees with the government's strategies there as well. Let me end by stressing that we are very pleased that, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government, in line with the input made by a number of environmental and development organisations, has taken active action to go through and withdraw a number of the requirements for liberalisation imposed by the previous government in the service negotiations with developing countries. When power distribution, water supply and higher education requirements are withdrawn, it shows a new course in practice. It's a course that the Center Party supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1439	It would have been tempting to use these five minutes of polemics against the Central Party parliamentary leader, but I understand that it takes time to turn my own head completely around and also time on this pulpit to do so. Two months ago, her own party leader said that the positions of this government today were a whiplash against Norwegian villages. Today, Norwegian food is safe at Norwegian table. But it is also allowed to move in the political landscape. I will also be allowed to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. I think it is important to develop the breadth of what this is all about, as has been done in previous reports on the Storting, because the domestic debate has very often been about domestic agricultural policy and what the future will be about. Unfortunately, it has often overshadowed what is important in this round, this development round. It is such that the key to breakthrough for the development round, for the full scope of important actions for the world society represented by this Doha round, is a solution for the agricultural sector. It could be said that the door to a more well-organised world trade in all areas is agriculture. To get in that door, to get into all the other possibilities, you have to find a solution for agriculture. I think that's the reality. That's the key. This means that the agricultural negotiations do not negotiate with all the other areas, but that they negotiate a solution for agriculture. Agriculture is traded against agriculture. There has to be a meeting point on the agricultural side – what is well called modality – before you can move on to what the world society needs. I think the situation is that to find a solution for agriculture, everyone has to give something. I very much appreciated and took note of a few sentences that the Minister for Foreign Affairs used to say that developing countries must also have increased access to the Norwegian market. I very much agree with that. And he took the important reservation, which I think most people in this room agree, that we should go no further than that we can maintain the production of central agricultural products. What has Norway done so far in the agricultural field? Together with the G10 countries, we are the ones that have gone the shortest, but still very far, as we see it, based on what our assumptions are. The government has powers of up to 50 pst. reduction in customs duties in the upper band. We have a significant number of sensitive products in our position, and we have a desire not to have a tariff. I think I'm going to try such a radical assessment as saying that the sum of these effects in Norwegian agriculture can be managed without any increased trade. This can be applied to techniques and air that are essentially within the scope of today's trade. It is not least related to a significant number of sensitive products in the Norwegian position. That means that I think Norway is going to contribute to an end solution, that the key is going to go around, we also have to deal with real agricultural failures. We can do that without throwing out central products. That is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech. I think it's okay that it was addressed. Because that means you have to give something away. There will be some painful changes, especially in some more marginal agricultural products, which Norway needs to make. It also expressed the government in its position. This government has a huge advantage, which the previous government did not have: it has no populist opposition to the important WTO work being done now. That gives some advantages. They have done the foreign minister find it right to do so, he has a back cover for it. However, the government still has a political challenge: if there is a solution now, the government must travel around and say that we cannot keep all agriculture in Norway, but that we must be able to keep it central. It's the land use, the grass-producing land, all over Norway. It's going to be a tough challenge as the Government is put together. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that Norwegian interests were well cared for. I'm sure of that. But the WTO is much bigger than us. It is important that this be a development round, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said. So it's important that new positions are given in terms of services, especially towards developing countries. I feel that what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said today is a concrete statement of what the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs said, namely that in the field of services we will not impose demands on developing countries that they do not want. This is concrete today. It is an important signal, probably also for the domestic debate. So what's going to happen in Hong Kong? There'll be no final solution, it's obvious. In the past, the foreign minister used the word ‘intervention’ for Hong Kong. Today he used the word "springboard" for further negotiations. I was pleased because it signaled a will for an offensive solution. The world needs a fast end to the Doha Round.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1460	First, I would like to thank you for what I experience as broad support in this room for the negotiating arrangements of the Government, that it is balanced and has the right arrangements, with some shades. I'll give some comments on questions that came up. Firstly, the representative Sponheim has a solid basis for his own opinions on many of these debates, and I would agree with him in what he says, that first of all it is agriculture against agriculture, so that very much of the debate is about it. But it also has consequences for the other areas and is being held up against them. At home, we often debate whether it is agriculture or fish, and how we view it. I feel that when we do not progress in fish – and it is not in Norway, it is important to underline – it is simply because the entire negotiating environment is concerned about the agricultural area. There are simply no meetings that take fish. So it's also going to be said that fish are a lot easier to process structurally. The things we're talking about there, customs rates, are much simpler than the very complicated agricultural image. I would like to say to the representative, Valle, that in the case of export aid, Norway is ready. We're ready to go in for liquidation. This means that Norway has little exports. We have mentioned earlier that it is about the Järlsbergosten, but it is now at least an expression that it illustrates the nature of our agriculture, which must also be seen in the context of agriculture in other countries. It was then said by the representative, Höglund, that an agreement that takes a dramatic cut on agriculture would be a gift package for Norwegian consumers. Now consumers are thinking about other things than the shopping basket, and I would say that it would be a gift package with a number of bismaks if you were to follow the line recommended by the representative. Agriculture is again an illustration that a single consumer-index purchasing power perspective cannot determine what is good for a life, for a built, for a city or for a branch. This is the great perspective that agriculture so well illustrates, and that shows why we have placed emphasis on the importance of maintaining agriculture throughout the country. So this is about drawing claims. The word "internal medicine" was used. Now it's not the worst medicine, but it can also have a meaning in a slightly larger context. I would like to say that it is right that Norway has drawn these requirements, in an economic sense in isolation, if other countries maintain their requirements. But it's an important signal. When I explained at the ministerial meeting that we had to assess our requirements in the field of services, this was noticed, because it was a new type of language from a type of country like Norway. It has been pointed out by some teams that we are not negotiating privatisation in the WTO. That's right. However, types of requirements and liberalisation of trade may have the direct or indirect consequence that it is. As stated by some representatives in the Chamber, we believe that each country has to have sovereignty to develop its own essential welfare services, infrastructure services, and then there is a signal from Norway when we have drawn this kind of requirement. Otherwise, I agree with the representative Petersen that the word ‘requirement’ in Norwegian is not quite comprehensive as to what it actually is. There's an opening for a conversation about simplification in the code. Equally, this is a signal when we draw our demands on the MUL, when we draw our demands in these areas. In the case of TRIPS, which the representative of Lilletun was responsible for, two days ago, there was an agreement to grant continued extension so that developing countries cannot import proprietary medicinal products. I ignore the requirements that are, and that means that this is solved in the short term. But it is also in the areas for which I want to have a responsibility in the conversations in Hong Kong, and we will also look closely at this when we get there. Finally. Whether this is a stopover or a springboard, you can have a semantic discussion about it. The important thing for us – in order to introduce a third concept – has been that Hong Kong does not take the air out of these negotiations, but that there is pressure in them further, so that we are motivated to reach solutions, preferably during the spring, and at least during 2006. Here it is too early to say whether we have reason to hope for it, because the signals we see in the international media image before Hong Kong show that it is going to be very demanding there, and that there has not been any significant convergence between the parties in the important agricultural area, on which many of these negotiations are attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1484	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1498	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 742]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1506	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1514	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Inge Wage on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 3-8, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party The President noted that proposal No. 8 replaces proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party. There will be a vote on the motions for resolutions first. 3 up to and including Nos. 7 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1567	Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a basic research centre for ADHD at the University of Oslo.’ It is warned that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e1584	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2006 is authorised under: Chapter.PostDestination:CronesCronesExpenditure700Ministry of Health and Welfare [[(see section 4.4). cap. 751 and 5577)]] IIMerresomstakterThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2006 may: exceed the appropriations below the corresponding deficit revenue. 703 items 21, 60 and 70 chapters. Item 3703, heading 3kap. 710 item 1 cap. Item 3710, heading 2kap. 710 item 21 cap. Item 3710, heading 3kap. 715 items 1 and 21 chapters. 3715 items 2 and 5cap. 716 item 1 cap. Item 3716, heading 2kap. 720 items 1 and 21 chapters. 3720 items 2 and 3 chapters. [[new]] 721 item 1 cap. 3721 items 2 and 4cap. Item No 1 chap. 722 Item No. 3722, Chapter 2. Item 724, Chapter 1. 3724 heading 2cap. 725 item 1 cap. 3725 heading 3kap. 750 item 1 cap. Item 3750, item 2 IIIOrdering powersThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2006 may make orders in addition to the appropriations allocated, but that the overall framework for new orders and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostDescriptionTotal framework710National Public Health Institute21Special operating expenditure 100 million. SEK720Social and Health Directorate 22Electronic prescriptions 35 million. kronor IVCommitmentsThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2006 will be able to make commitments in addition to appropriations granted, but that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostNameTotal framework761Aids managed by Social and Health Directorate60Aid to care 1 million. NOK73Additional to deaf blind and deaf SEK 7 million. kronor VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV 1st@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Health and Health in 2006 may allow the five regional health establishments to take up operational credit within a total of 6 500 million. kroner.2. The Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2006 can carry out a net cost reduction under the heading. 732 Regional health enterprises item 80 Patient transport, reimbursement by health enterprises of the costs of patient transport.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e6505	The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they are now supporting the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e6525	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e6569	The President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-09.ana.ud24e7251	There is no record.
