ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e54	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies following the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e63	I will not do this debate very long, but first I will be grateful to the Committee for a proper, but nevertheless very quickly, procedure. No one likes things getting up – we don't do that in our committee either, and that's why it's good that we can finish one of them today. The Committee is of the opinion that this is an important issue. The issue under consideration today concerns the issue of whether the private crisis centres should be obliged to provide information on child protection when Mother moves back to a partner who has exposed the mother and/or children to violence or threats to it. The Committee is fully in agreement; it is totally unacceptable for some to engage in violence against others – totally unacceptable. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, supports the Government's proposal to introduce information obligations for crisis centres and justifies this with Articles 3 and 13 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and further indicates that Section 139 of the Criminal Code does not provide adequate protection against children who are witnesses to violence. This is a difficult matter, also for the Progress Party, precisely because it is about the dilemma of what is most appropriate, and what is best for who. The majority have written that the majority of the hearing bodies support the proposal on information obligations for the crisis centres for the protection of children. Yes, it is, but for the Progress Party it became very difficult that both the KS and not least the Crisis Centre Secretariat had opposed such an obligation to provide information. And the reason is obvious, though very difficult. For me, the crisis centre has always stood as a safe place to be when everything is chaotic – and filled with fear – around you, a place where nothing bad can reach you, where you are given a free minute in a difficult life, where no one condemns you because if you live with a violent man or do not have the power to break out, and no one condemns you because if you, no matter how much your partner keeps you down physically or mentally, choose to go back. Now it's no longer going to be like this. Maybe I'm the one who has a totally wrong idea of what a crisis center is? However, regardless of that, women may choose not to visit the crisis centres for fear of being notified to child protection. They use other networks instead, because they know they're going to return to their partners. That's not how we wanted it, because then we also lose the overview of the women who should have been caught up in the system. Yes, perhaps it is best for children that the crisis centres have an obligation to provide information. But what does it help, if mother doesn't bring the children and come? How, then, should you cope with the feelings you have when you have witnessed violence? Much of that processing has just taken place in the crisis centres, where children too have had a free minute from violence and unrest. But if you choose other solutions in fear, you may not be able to choose the right solutions. For this reason, the Progress Party chooses not to support the proposal on information obligations – there are also a number of different instances in the children’s community that will be able to catch up with difficult children, for example. health centre, kindergarten, school etc. For the Progress Party, the crisis centre is a safe and lukewarm place, where no threats come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e89	Today, we are dealing with the law on the amendment of the Child Protection Act, on the obligation to provide information for crisis centres in the field of child protection. I am going to go a little further, because we have not debated crisis centres and crisis measures anything in particular in the budget debate. We've had a development of domestic violence that worries. When the crisis centers were started, we thought that only we focused on the problem of violence would it be gone. Unfortunately, this is not the situation. Crisis centres are more necessary than ever. Good and important work is being done in crisis centres around the country, and it turns out that when women take voluntary action, it is necessary. Women in this country have initiated different measures taken by the public, such as: health stations. Those living in crisis centres today are often in a complex and complex situation. More skills and organised centres are required which are more adapted to children. I am pleased that we have now established an equal earmarked funding for crisis, incest and rape centres. The State grant is 80 pst. of the operating budget, and it requires a municipal share of 20 pst. The conversion of the Facility for Crisis Centres was implemented in the 2005 budget and the conversion of the Facility for Incest Centres is now under way, with effect from 1 January 2006. Private gifts and contributions are excluded from the grant scheme. The conversion of the financial instruments has been absolutely necessary in order for these important actions to have a predictable framework for their operation. The objective of the State grant schemes for the operation of emergency measures is to help the victims, as well as to help reduce the extent of violence, abuse and abuse. I would like to stress the importance of raising the level of competence and strengthening cooperation between the centres and local support agencies, such as the family and child protection offices. Crisis centres have now received more predictable funding, and it is important that the provision of children at crisis centres is focused and tailored to the needs of children. The intention of this amendment is that crisis centres should report to child protection if a woman moves her children from the crisis centre back to the perpetrator. A robust majority of the hearing bodies support this proposal. Women often move from the crisis center and home to assaults. This may mean that the children come to a serious life situation, where they themselves may be subjected to violence and abuse or witness such acts. Children who are exposed to direct or indirect violence may suffer serious harm. Such situations represent a serious failure of care, and child protection must be notified in order to allow them to enter and secure assistance and, where appropriate, to initiate measures to safeguard the rights of the child. I am very much in agreement with the Progress Party that it is a dilemma to maintain trust between the user and the crisis centre, but I believe that having an openness around the reporting obligation, which you have throughout the aid system, is necessary in order to ensure the child's best interests. As a midwife, I have been involved in many child protection issues, and I have never actually experienced that openness around this has been a major problem. Finally, I would like to refer to the political platform, negotiated at Soria Moria, and to the budgetary position, where it is said that the Government will legislate the crisis centre offer and strengthen the offer of the incestorials. This is absolutely necessary in order for us to get an offer across the country. During the four-year period that has passed, we have seen that centres have been closed down several places in the country due to poor municipal economy. We can't have it that way. We have to have crisis centres in place around this country – also with the reasons behind the Progress Party – so that these women and children are seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e108	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e124	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 51]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e140	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 51]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e148	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e186	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e198	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e208	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e244	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e315	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e326	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e383	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e393	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-13-lower.ana.ud2133e505	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
