ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e26	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e44	Norway is in the process of adapting accounting legislation to international developments. Significant changes have occurred internationally in recent years, in particular in relation to the EU's accounting strategy to introduce IFRS as a common basis for financial reporting. For a small, open economy, it is important to adapt quickly. Norway has obvious advantages from a common accounting language, because our companies operate to a large extent internationally and depend on confidence in their own accounts and the ability to understand foreign accounts. IFRSs are otherwise rated as a high-quality standard that will improve the quality of Norwegian accounting information. Size treated before Christmas Ot.prp. No 89 for 2003-2004, where IFRS is made mandatory for listed entities from 2005. In addition, the Decision opened the decision on the voluntary use of IFRS in consolidated financial statements for non-listed entities and in the annual accounts. The case under consideration today provides for the adaptation to IFRS of entities other than listed entities and entities that voluntarily choose to use the IFRS in full. IFRS is a comprehensive regulatory framework, and for many it is too costly and laborious to use this regulatory framework in full. It is therefore important to provide for the possibility of gradual adaptation through a simplified standard. The Accounting Law Committee proposed a number of amendments to the provisions of the Accounting Act, of which the obligation to follow IFRS solutions in some areas and the ability to comply with such provisions in other areas. The majority share the Government's view that the consideration of comparable accounts limits the possibility of freedom of choice within a single legislative framework. Furthermore, the majority consider that time is not yet ripe to require entities other than listed entities to comply fully or simply with IFRS. Thus, the majority support the main principles of the proposal, with the option for unlisted entities to comply either with IFRS fully or in a simplified way, or to continue to comply with applicable accounting rules and good Norwegian accounting practices. The Committee also shares the view that there is a long-term objective for other than small entities to prepare annual financial statements in accordance with IFRS, either fully or in a simplified manner. The work on the creation of a simplified IFRS standard is ongoing in the International Standardisation IASB. Progress in the work is somewhat uncertain. The government’s proposal opens up the possibility to develop its own regulations on simplified IFRS. The Committee shares the Government's view that it may be necessary to develop regulations independently of the IASB project in order to make it possible to lay down the regulation in 2006. IFRS adaptation will still not be appropriate for many enterprises. The majority therefore support the proposal to continue to prepare annual accounts in accordance with the applicable accounting policies. Norway thus receives a two-track accounting system, where companies either comply fully with IFRS or simplify them, or continue their current accounting policies. The transition to a new accounting system may be demanding. The government has therefore proposed a transitional rule for simplified IFRS, whereby subsidiaries of groups that report in accordance with simplified IFRS are given the opportunity to disclose notes in accordance with current legislation. The majority have, in the light of hearings, inter alia: from the NHO, extended the transitional rule to the annual accounts of parent companies and to the inclusion of non-resident groups. Part of the valuation rules in IFRSs are complicated, especially as regards IAS 39. The Ministry writes to the Committee in a letter that, in cooperation with standard sets, it will be considered to permit certain deviations from IAS 39. The Committee stresses that the simplified IFRS legislation does not entail excessive additional costs and that it is designed in such a way that it is actually used by business. The Government proposes to extend the note requirements of the Accounting Act on the reporting of benefits to senior executives. There has been a lot of focus on this, and such information is important to the shareholders of the companies. The note-taking requirements are proposed in accordance with the recommendation of the European Commission in this area. Some hearing bodies have considered that the requirements become too detailed. The Ministry has informed the Committee that it will provide sufficient information on the disclosure of the options granted and not offered. So the majority has agreed to such a constraint. The Financial Committee also welcomes the central role played by the Norwegian Accounting Foundation in the development of IFRS regulations. The harmonisation of accounting law and the rapid adaptation of Norway are beneficial to business. Today’s decision is not expected to impose significant additional costs or administrative burdens, and the rules on simplified IFRS facilitate significant savings. Thus, adaptation to international accounting developments must be expected to take place in a fast, smooth and cost-effective manner. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e76	I refer you mainly to the rapporteur's comments on this matter. We from the Workers' Party join the proposals in Ot.prp. No Thirty-nine. I would also like to address the proposals that the Labour Party has with other parties. The Labour Party mainly supports the proposals made in the proposal, but on some points we are in favour of solutions other than those outlined by the Government. The Workers’ Party shares the Government’s assessment that there is a long-term objective for non-small entities to prepare annual financial statements in accordance with international accounting standards, hereinafter referred to as IFRS, either full IFRS in accordance with the IFRS Regulation or the Simplified IFRS Regulation. We support the proposal to continue to prepare annual accounts in accordance with the applicable basic accounting principles and their assessment rules, both for small and other undertakings. The Workers' Party shares the Government's assessment of the need to adapt Norwegian accounting legislation to international accounting standards, even outside the scope of the IFRS Regulation. However, for small enterprises, there is a balance between costs and the use of several deviations from advanced and comprehensive requirements under the international accounting regulations. The working party supports the proposal that transitional rules for simplified IFRS should also include the parent company’s annual accounts in groups that prepare financial statements in accordance with the IFRS Regulation and subsidiaries of foreign listed groups. Indeed, the Workers' Party does not support the proposal to open up the use of functional currency as the accounting currency in the annual accounts. The use of currency other than Norwegian krona as the accounting currency will weaken the annual accounts as the basis for control and statistics. Therefore, for reasons of transparency, we believe that the accounting currency for annual accounts should be Norwegian kroner. The annual accounts may be presented in Norwegian kronor or in euro. The Workers' Party further believes that it is an important principle that the annual accounts and annual report of Norwegian companies should be submitted in Norwegian and that other languages should be added to it, if necessary. We therefore oppose the proposal that the Ministry should be able to decide by regulation or individual decision that an annual or annual report may be in another language. Furthermore, the Workers' Party believes that the issue of set-aside dividends is a matter of great public interest. Therefore, it is not sufficient that any assigned dividends are shown in the company’s annual report, as proposed by the Government. The working party is therefore committed to making information on what has been proposed as dividends visible in the accounts. The Government proposes to introduce ‘annual’ as a consistent concept in the Accounting Act rather than the word ‘employees’. The working party considers that information on both the number of employees and the number of annual works to be of general interest and should therefore be clearly stated in the accounts. The Workers' Party supports the proposal to extend the note requirements of the Accounting Act in accordance with the Recommendation on the Reporting of Benefits to Leading Persons, which has now been adopted by the European Commission. The government has, among other things: proposed that the number and conditions of use of share options offered or shares granted by the undertaking during the financial year should be disclosed. The Workers' Party supports this proposal and disagrees with a majority of the Committee that considers it sufficient to provide information on the number of options allocated. The working party welcomes the fact that the new rules will provide a better overview of salaries and other remuneration for managers, but believes that the measures should go a bit further. Accounting law should require all companies to account for the company's positions and forecasts of the future management wage developments in the annual report and in the interim financial report. Furthermore, employees who have benefits in line with or above those of an Executive Director should be disclosed. It is also appropriate to disclose information about senior executives who have more than one position or assignment in a group and where in the group they operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e104	The representative Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e107	The Progress Party had preferred the modernisation line, as provided by the Evaluation Committee, and finds it strange that the Ministry has not followed up the recommendation of the sample to a greater extent. A growing number of Norwegian enterprises are dealing with foreign investors and trading partners. There will be a barrier to competition in Norwegian accounts according to principles which are not known or understood outside Norwegian borders. In particular, the Progress Party will bring forward the amendment to the law of Sections 5 to 8 to remove the right to assess other financial current assets at fair value, if you follow the accounting track. The provision should allow for fair value assessment if it can be measured reliably. Because the Progress Party believes that the modernisation line, with the option of adapting to IFRS, is the best solution, proposals are made to that effect. The progress party goes in an important area slightly further than the selection by allowing fair value valuation if it can be measured reliably. A write-up option will increase the information value of the balance sheet, and only Germany has a write-up ban similar to that introduced in Norway in 1998. The Progress Party believes that the IFRS Code is so extensive that it cannot be expected that unlisted entities will comply fully with it without delay. If such entities are to be offered an option of IFRS adaptation, this should be done through amendments to some provisions of Norwegian accounting law. The multi-track solution to which the Government is now providing must be considered as a transitional regime until a fully simplified IFRS solution, if any, is available. Furthermore, the Progress Party considers that the Ministry should ensure that the terminology used in the Norwegian translations of IAS is harmonised with the law. This will improve usability. In the case of simplified IFRSs, the Progress Party is concerned that it will not be completed within the specified deadline. We see it as positive that the Ministry signals an active attitude to this challenge, so that unlisted entities are effectively deterred from the opportunity to comply with IFRS. The Progress Party wishes to maintain simplified rules for small enterprises for food-benefit purposes. I would like to point out that there are already detailed provisions on information requirements for management salaries. The evaluation committee considered the current provisions to be sufficient. Further detailed information on management salaries is likely to be wage-earning. For reasons of privacy, the party to the progress is sceptical about detailed information and does not consider that more detailed requirements of the Accounting Act necessarily increase the information value of the accounts. However, the party to the progress made has made the access of the general interest to the information more important. However, we hope that the Ministry will focus on the negative consequences that could result from the provision. Finally, on the organisation of the standard set-up body, I would like to mention that a broader composition of the Norwegian Accounting Foundation could be beneficial. Finally, I would like to mention in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party, both that of the Progress Party alone, and that of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e133	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e136	SV went deep. O. No 17 for 2004-2005, in contrast to the high degree of freedom of choice in the provision of accounts in accordance with different standards provided by the Government. The SV therefore proposed that all consolidated financial statements be subject to an obligation to comply with the IFRS Regulation, while annual financial statements should remain subject to the applicable accounting law. SV emphasises that it is unfortunate that Norwegian businesses and authorities have to deal with several different ways of accounting for the same type of company. This will result in less transparency and greater adaptability. SV shares the skepticism of the IFRS system presented by the minority of the Accounting Regulatory Committee. Several aspects of these rules are not appropriate for many Norwegian companies. The SV emphasises that there is a positive trend towards fairly similar accounting standards in different countries, but considers that it is wrong to introduce changes to the legislation which give greater freedom of choice as regards the form of accounts than the current accounting law. SV therefore assumes that full IFRS alignment of current Norwegian accounting legislation outside the scope of the Regulation is not desirable because this would result in a strongly increased freedom of choice. SV is therefore pleased that the Government has chosen to move away from the modernisation line to the majority of the sample. However, SV opposes the Government’s proposal for a transitional arrangement. SV refers to the fact that the Government’s proposal allows subsidiaries in a group where the parent company holds the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS to apply IFRS. However, despite this, the note requirements of the Accounting Act shall be used. SV refers to those note requirements being based on accounting policies other than the note disclosures to be provided in accordance with IFRS. SV stresses that this will make the accounts of companies less transparent. SV believes that all annual accounts should be published in Norwegian kroner, for reasons of transparency. Such a rule does not lead to substantial additional work or costs for undertakings, because conversion must nevertheless be made in connection with the declaration. The question of set-aside dividends is a matter of great public interest. SV believes that it is not enough for a set-aside dividend to be reflected in a company's annual report. The SV therefore proposes that information on what has been proposed as a dividend be made visible in the accounts and therefore proposes that this be included in the Accounting Act as a note requirement. Information on the number of employees and the number of annual works is of general interest. SV therefore believes that information on the number of employees and the number of annual works should also be provided in the accounts of small enterprises. SV proposes to abolish the exemption that small enterprises have from carrying out pension obligations insured. In many small undertakings, such obligations may amount to significant values and should be disclosed in the accounts. To have an overview of this is important both for the companies themselves and for the employees. SV believes it is an important principle that the annual accounts and annual report of Norwegian companies should be published in Norwegian and that other languages should be added. SV points out that the hearing opinion of LO, dated 11 February 2005, expresses the same requirement. On this basis, SV will not grant the Ministry regulatory access to grant exemptions from the main requirement set out in the third paragraph of Section 3-4, and will then vote against this paragraph. SV supports proposals for changes to the Accounting Act that will provide a better overview of remuneration and other remuneration to managers. SV is of the opinion that the measures should go further. SV therefore considers that accounting law should require all companies to explain the company's positions and forecasts of the future management wage developments in the annual report and interim financial report. It is also necessary to provide information about employees who have benefits in line with or above those of the Executive Director. Furthermore, it is necessary to disclose information about senior executives who have more than one position or assignment in the group and where they operate in the group in which case. Furthermore, we refer to Document No. 8:136 for 2001-2002, proposals by Jens Stoltenberg and Kristin Halvorsen on measures to increase transparency and awareness of management salaries, and their subsequent treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e159	I have a simple basic attitude to accounting rules. They shall give the most accurate picture of the economy of their business, and they shall be worthy of both shareholders, employees and society. There may be a tension between the decent and the best possible image of the business. It's important to find a good balance between the decent and what isolated can be desirable in a non-profit world. I believe that the Government in the proposals contained in this proposition has made clear this balance in a good way. Significant international developments have taken place in the field of accounting since the Act was enacted in 1999. Not least, there's a lot of international that affects us. At a time when capital is more likely to cross borders than within borders, it is important that Norwegian businesses have the same accounting standards as their investors and trading partners. Therefore, the use of IFRS, International Financial Reporting Standards, as the basis for the Norwegian accounting standard, is important. Equally full, IFRSs are comprehensive. It is therefore an important and appropriate measure when it now facilitates the simplified application of international accounting standards in all accounts, with the exception of the consolidated financial statements of listed entities. I see the point that there should not be too many variants of accounting standards, but I think the government has found a good balance in its proposal. The entire Committee states that it is a long-term objective that all entities, with the exception of small ones, prepare annual financial statements in accordance with IFRS or simplified IFRS. Of course, it's a question of how to deal with when you can't get into a system completely, but have more slippery transitions. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee considers that consideration for continuous adaptation to IFRSs is more prudent within a two-track system, where a more unambiguous choice is made between IFRSs with simplifications and the Accounting Act, respectively. The application of regulations can ensure rapid and flexible adaptation to amendments to IFRSs, and the majority therefore supports the adoption of separate regulations on the simplified application of IFRSs. For the Christian People's Party, voluntary sector is important. We have a lot of examples of this, and we'll often highlight it. However, since these are organisations that do not have financial gain as their purpose, many of the accounting rules will not be relevant. It is therefore important that an exemption has been granted to organisations such as: humanitarian and political organisations, political parties, etc. So this is not about lowering the thresholds for good accounting practice, but about adjusting the nature of the accounts. Once again, it is about having a decent code that reflects the work of the enterprise in a good way. I am pleased that the committee is unanimous on this point. For me and for the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress the proposal in the proposition that listed companies and public limited-liability companies should disclose specified information in the notes on the annual accounts on benefits to senior management. This is important to shareholders, employees and society in general. I note that part of the opposition will go beyond what is recommended, and as the Government has agreed. The most important thing for me and my party is that there are good rules in this area. The Government's proposal goes beyond what is currently the case in today's legislation, and in my view, this will bring out the conditions around the performance of the executives in the businesses in a good way. In the case of languages, a large minority also have a different view from the Government. I would like to stress that the general rule will continue to be that the annual accounts and the annual report will be in Norwegian. As I have pointed out, a lot is happening both in the internationalisation of the economy and thus in the use of common accounting standards. I think the way the government has solved today's challenges is good, not only in terms of the merit of today's businesses and societies, but also in view of the leadership this puts in the way a meeting of developments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e176	In an open economy with large trade between countries, harmonisation in the accounting field is important. The Central Party therefore supports the Government's proposals in all respects. However, although the principle of comparability limits the scope for freedom of choice and deviation, in some areas the Central Party has divergent views from what is the majority position and what is the Government’s proposal. Firstly, we believe that the development of a regulatory framework will be resource-intensive and the risk that IFRS will not exist within the timeframe is absolute. The Central Party therefore considers that a transitional arrangement is necessary and proposes such a transitional arrangement, together with the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. Nevertheless, we will subsidiaryly support the majority in this matter when these three parties appear to be in a minority. The party also considers that the annual accounts and the annual report should be submitted in Norwegian. On this basis, we do not want to grant the department legal access to grant exemptions from the main provision of the third paragraph of Section 3-4, and we will vote against the last sentence of this paragraph. The centre party also believes that the annual accounts should be drawn up in Norwegian kroner. This will not lead to substantial additional work, including: of course, the declaration must continue to be drawn up in Norwegian kroner. In addition, transparency considerations would suggest that this should be done in this way. Furthermore, we also want the provision for dividends to be made visible in the accounts and the number of share options granted during the financial year to be shown in the accounts. Finally, the central party also believes that the development of sick leave in the last year and the development over time should be reflected in the accounts. I refer to proposals that have not already been promoted where the Senterpartiet is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e193	The representative, Odd Roger Enoxen, has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e203	The odelsting shall then vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e211	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 2-6, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 7, by Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 8 by Mr Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to present amendments to the Accounting Act § 3-3, seventh paragraph so that the statement in the Annual Report shall also include an indication of the company’s current position on remuneration of senior employees and on the expected development of these benefits in the coming years, as stated. § 7-31.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to make changes to paragraphs 6 to 5 of the Stock Exchange Regulation so that an interim financial report is required to contain a forecast of the amount of benefits to the Executive Director for the current financial year, as set out below. Section 7-31 of the Accounting Act. The forecast shall be based on balance sheet date conditions.» Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to present amendments to the provisions of Chapter 7 of the Accounting Act in such a way that all relevant provisions require that if other employees have benefits in line with or higher than benefits to the Executive Director, they be disclosed.’;» Proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to present amendments to the provisions of Chapter 7 of the Accounting Act in such a way that all relevant provisions require that, where senior management has more than one office or function in the company, this must be disclosed together with an indication of where they operate in the company.’;» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. To simplify voting, the President will vote on most minority proposals before voting on the vote on the motion for a resolution. We start with proposal No. 9 from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 17 July 1998 No 56 on annual accounts, etc. The following shall be amended as follows:Sections 7 to 30, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:Sickness absences shall be reported in the last year and developments over the last 5 years.» [[Accounting Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e271	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 17 July 1998 No 56 on annual accounts, etc. point 4-1 is amended as follows: 3 new second sentence shall be replaced by the following:Exemptions from the compilation principle shall be made when it is in accordance with good accounting practice.§ 4-2 new second paragraph shall be replaced by:Estimated changes in depreciation on operating resources shall be distributed over the remaining life of the operating asset.§ 5-1 new fourth paragraph shall read: Long-term assets held for sale shall be accounted for in accordance with the minimum value principle.§ 5-3 new fourth, fifth and sixth subparagraphs shall read:Property, plant, equipment and intangible assets may be valued at fair value if they can be measured reliably.The revaluation reserve included in equity may be transferred directly to retained earnings when the reserve is realised. [[Accounting Act]] The entire revaluation surplus can be realised on the retirement or disposal of the asset. If any of the revaluation surplus is realised as an asset is used, the amount of the realised reserve is the difference between depreciation based on the asset's revalued carrying amount and depreciation based on the asset's original cost. Transferring from revaluation surplus to retained earnings shall not be carried over the income statement.If control of the future economic benefits of an intangible asset has been acquired through legal rights for a limited period, the useful life of the intangible asset shall not exceed the period over which the entity has the legal rights, unless the legal rights can be renewed and a renewal is presumptuously probable. Small enterprises may expense their own development costs.§ 5-7 new second paragraph is replaced by the following: Depreciation of goodwill is excluded. If the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities exceeds cost, the difference is shown at the time of purchase.§ 5-8 is replaced by the following:Financial instruments and commodity derivatives Financial instruments and commodity derivatives are to be assessed at fair value when fair value can be measured reliably.Fund for changes in value shall be equal to carrying changes in financial instruments that are not carried out under the second paragraph of Section 4-3.The Ministry may prescribe detailed provisions for accounting for financial instruments and commodity derivatives, including the financial instruments and commodity derivatives that cannot be measured at fair value.Small entities may, without prejudice to the first subparagraph, assess financial instruments and commodity derivatives according to general valuation rules.New paragraphs 5 to 8a shall read: Investment properties can be assessed at fair value when fair value can be measured reliably. Paragraphs 5 to 8b are replaced by the following:Biological assets can be assessed at fair value when fair value can be measured reliably. The same applies to products produced from biological assets at the time of harvesting.§ 5-17 new third paragraph is replaced by the following:A parent company that produces consolidated financial statements may also apply in its annual accounts the special valuation rules set out in Sections 5 to 8.§ 5 to 18 new second paragraph is replaced by the following:A parent company that produces consolidated financial statements may also apply in its annual accounts the special valuation rules set out in Sections 5 to 8.§ 7 to 12 new paragraphs. No 5 and 6 are replaced by the following:5. total revaluation at fair value6. revaluation by valuation at fair value in the financial year.§ 7 to 13 new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The assumptions on which fair value valuation is based shall be disclosed.§ 7 to 17 shall be replaced by:§ 7 to 17. Fair value of financial instrumentsFor each category of financial instruments that has been assessed at fair value under paragraphs 5 to 8, the cost, fair value, change in profit or loss for the period and the change in value of the period carried directly to equity shall be disclosed. In addition, information shall be provided on material assumptions underlying the assessment as well as a specification of changes in funds for changes in value during the financial year. For financial derivatives that are not measured at fair value under paragraphs 5 to 8, fair value shall be disclosed if it can be estimated reliably. The information shall be provided separately for each category of derivative financial instruments.For financial assets assessed under the first and second paragraphs of Section 5-8 where the carrying amount is higher than fair value, the carrying amount and fair value of the individual asset or an appropriate grouping of the assets shall be disclosed. Reasons shall be given why no write-down has been made. The justification shall include the statements that the impairment is not transitory.New Sections 7-17a and 7-17b shall be replaced by the following:§ 7-17a Fair value of investment propertyIf investment property is assessed at fair value, the valuation techniques used and the material assumptions on which the calculations are based shall be disclosed. Further information shall be provided to the extent necessary to assess the underlying assessments of the financial statements.§ 7-17b Fair value of biological assetsIf biological assets and products produced by them are assessed at fair value, the valuation methods used and the material assumptions on which the calculations are based shall be disclosed for each group of biological assets. The manner in which stock changes have been made shall be specified. For products produced from biological assets, the amount of the production period shall be disclosed. Additional information shall be provided to the extent necessary to assess the assessments on which the accounts are based.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e386	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 17 July 1998 No 56 on annual accounts, etc. is amended as follows:New § 7-31b, fourth paragraph, No. 1 is replaced by the following: [[Accounting Act]] 1. the number and conditions of use of share options offered or shares granted by the undertaking during the financial year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e407	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 with the exception of § 3-4, of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 17 July 1998 No 56 on annual accounts, etc. new paragraphs 7 to 2 (a) shall be replaced by the following:If the annual accounts are presented in euro, conversion rates shall be disclosed.Sections 7 to 25 new third paragraph shall be replaced by the following:Suggested dividends and group contributions shall be disclosed.§ 7 to 30 shall be replaced by the following:The number of annual works and the number of employees in the financial year shall be disclosed.§ 7 to 35 new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by:If the annual accounts are presented in euro, conversion rates shall be disclosed.§ 7 to 42 new second paragraph shall be replaced by:Suggested dividends and group contributions shall be disclosed.The second to fifth subparagraphs shall become new third to sixth subparagraphs.§ 7 to 43 shall be replaced by:The number of annual and number of employees in the financial year shall be disclosed.» [[Accounting Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e451	§ 3-4 of proposal No. 1 comes back to the President. We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e641	For § 3-4 there is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 3-4 shall be replaced by the following:The accounting currency for the annual accounts shall be Norwegian kronor. The annual accounts may be presented in Norwegian kronor or euro.The annual accounts and the annual report shall be in Norwegian.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e1830	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e1840	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-12-lower.ana.ud1562e1851	There is no record.
