ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e146	There is no record available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e160	On behalf of the Progress Party, I put forward the following proposals: ‘The decision of the Nodelsting is not accepted.Note: It is recommended to the Odelstinget to refer to the legislative proposal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e172	The representative Per Ove Wideth has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e175	It's a little unusual practice that you want to say some extra words to the Creation in connection with the legal process, as we know that we don't normally do that. That said, we know that the work on the Finnmark Act has taken a very long time. For 25 years this has been a recurring theme both inside and outside Finnmark. Never has a matter been the subject of so many people's meetings and so long debates and with as different approaches and opinions as just this matter. Although the debate has unfortunately contained many considerations with very different content, I believe that through their devotion all participants have had Finnmark's best motive. In such an important case for both Finnmark and Norway, it is not surprising that one has different views. I also have strong opinions about what is best for Finnmark. That's exactly why I'm here today. Even with many investigations and wide-ranging debates, the aim has always been a law that would meet some criteria. Firstly, it is important to adopt a law which has the legitimacy of all of it. Secondly, it is important to adopt a law clarifying issues, both current and future. Thirdly, it is important to adopt a law ensuring the influence of minorities in Finnmark on the administration of land and water in the county. With this background, corruption and government have been working on the very complex issues addressed by the Finnish Law. Media and others have been able to create the impression that the debate around the Finnland Act is a conflict between the Sami and the Nordics. This is a myth I don't think it's cover for. A few years ago, I was a participant in a project that conducted the largest survey of co-workers in Norway. The survey revealed that the conflict was mainly between people living on the coast and people living in the hinterland. I think that's the main thrust of the tensions today, too. They're not ethnic, they're geographical. That is why I am opposed to the procedures and composition of the board of directors of the new Finnmark property. As a result of the compromise with the Workers' Party, the majority of Odelstinget’s Board of Directors of the Finnmark Property provides the following structure: three appointed by Finnmark County and three appointed by the Sametinget. The proposal also stipulates that, in the event of a change in the use of land and the disposal of immovable property, a member of the Management Board shall, by agreement with the Management Board, resign from second reading. If the case concerns the five Sami municipalities in Finnmark, a member appointed by the County Council shall resign, and vice versa, in cases relating to the other 15 municipalities. I believe this is a very poor solution, for two reasons. First of all, the law states that Finnmark is a two-part state. This may lead to a polarisation between Finnmark County and the Sameting when it comes to the appointment of directors of the Finnmark Property. There is a risk that the Sameting will only appoint board representatives from the five Sami municipalities, and Finnmark County Council will do the opposite. In my opinion, this would be an injustice to the communities that live in the non-Samian municipalities, and it would also be an injustice to the non-Samian people who live in the Sami municipalities. Secondly, it is a fact that most of the area in Finnmark is the five Sami municipalities, but it is also used by residents living in the fifteen other municipalities. Many people who live on the coast either have recreational property in their own country or are users of land there. Such a solution, which has a geographically dependent governance structure, is, in my view, unfortunate. That's why I'm going to make my own suggestions about that. The relationship with international law is an important reason for the adoption of the Finnish Law. For many, it is difficult to understand that a well-functioning administrative regime is now going to change. Usually in politics, things change as a result of desire for improvement, which is not always evident in this matter. Norway's international obligations are what I accept, and I support the premise for the work on the Finnland Act. On the other hand, I find it difficult to see the need for Section 3, which deals with the relationship between the law and ILO Convention No. 169. When the ILO Convention was ratified by the Stortinget in 1990, this was done with a background in preparatory work by the Government. In the hearing opinion of the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Local Affairs, it was written: ‘no reason to require specific changes to Norwegian internal rules before a Norwegian ratification can take place.’ With, inter alia: this interpretation was ratified by the Stortinget ILO Convention. In 2003, the Government presented its legislative proposal on the Finnish Law. Several proposals were made, including: to meet the international obligations, including ILO Convention No. 169. During the proceedings in Stortinget, the Judicial Committee asked for a more detailed interpretation of international law. Ulfstein and Graver concluded that the government had not gone far enough in terms of international law. This was largely rejected by the Government, but some points have changed towards the treatment of Odelsting on 24 May. With this in mind, it must be assumed that the interpretation of the ILO Convention’s effect for, inter alia: The Finnmark property has not been closed. Then it is problematic for me that the Finnish Law § 3, ‘Relationship with international law’, contains the following: ‘The law applies with the restrictions imposed by ILO Convention No. 169.’» How ILO Convention No. 169 will be interpreted and applied in the future, no one can say for sure. I cannot therefore agree to give ILO Convention No. 169 priority in the Finnish Law. I believe that the Stortinget should, if necessary, take an active position on how international conventions should affect Norwegian law as a result of interpretations, including ILO Convention No. 169. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important for everyone to look forward to the future. Whatever is adopted, and what opinions you have, there is a great responsibility on everyone that the Finnish Law will work for the benefit of everyone living in Finnmark, and other citizens. Although on some points I have different views from my own party, I want to do my utmost to make sure that the law can work in the best possible way. The Finnmarks Act is not a disaster for Finnmark, but I certainly believe it could have been better. At the same time, I would like to commend the case rapporteur, Mr Trond Helleland, for his work on the law. Although I do not agree with his conclusions in many areas, I believe that the rapporteur has shown great flexibility in taking into account all Finn Markings while balancing a very difficult matter. Then I will make the following suggestions on behalf of myself: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted.Note:1. § 3 is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘The law shall be applied in accordance with the rules of international law on indigenous peoples and minorities and with the provisions of agreements with foreign countries on fishing in the border counties.’2 § 5, first paragraph, it is assumed that it should be replaced by the following:‘The law here does not interfere with private or collective rights based on the use of claims or age’3. Paragraph 5 (2) is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘The rights of the samian reindeer holders on the basis referred to in the first paragraph or under the reindeer management law are not restricted by the law here.’ § 7 is expected to be replaced by the following:‘The Finnmark property is managed by a board of seven persons. The members and alternates shall reside in Finnmark. Among the members chosen by Sametinget, at least one member of the Management Board and his alternate shall be representatives of the reindeer management. Both as members and as alternates, both bodies shall choose both women and men. The Board shall elect its members and alternates together. Employees of the Finnmark property, the auditor and members of the Finnmark property and alternates of the control committee may not be elected as directors or alternates.The King appoints one member of the board with a personal alternate. He/she shall not have the voting rights on the Management Board. The members of the Management Board and the alternates shall be appointed for a maximum of four years at a time. No one may be a member of the Governing Board for more than 10 years in the context. In such a case, the Board shall elect its members and alternates together again. Directors and alternates shall have the right to retire before their term of office is completed if there are particular reasons. The Management Board and the body which appointed the person concerned shall be given reasonable advance notice. The second sentence of the fifth paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis.The Governing Board shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson from among its members. If no majority is obtained, the member of the board shall be appointed by the head of the State.’5. Paragraph 9(4), last sentence, is assumed to be deleted.6. Paragraph 9 new paragraph 5 should be assumed to be replaced by the following:‘The equivalence of votes is deemed not to have been taken. If the member of the Management Board appointed by the State deems it necessary for the operation of the Finnmark property to take a decision, he may request the Ministry to decide the case. The decision of the Ministry shall take effect as a Management Board decision. It may not be appealed to the King."7. Section 10 is expected to read as follows:‘In cases of change in the use of land, the Finnmark property shall assess the significance of the change for Sami culture, reindeer management, nutrition and social life. The assessment shall take into account the compositional guidelines according to § 4. Decisions on the modified use of land always require the consent of at least four voting members if the whole minority justifies its position in the interests of Sami culture, reindeer, nutrition and social life assessed on the basis of the guidelines of the Sameting. If the majority does not exceed four, a total minority may, during the meeting of the Management Board, require that the matter be referred to the Consultation. If the pooling does not accept the majority decision or fails to deal with the matter within a reasonable period of time, a single majority of the board of directors may require the Finnmark property to refer the matter to the King, who shall decide whether to approve the decision. The Governing Board may authorise staff and others to decide on the change in the use of land only if at least four members of the Governing Board so vote. The second paragraph, second to fourth sentences, shall apply mutatis mutandis. The provisions of this paragraph apply mutatis mutandis to the sale and rental of land or land rights, to the granting of specific rights to the local use of renewable resources and to the local management of hunting and fishing. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to other cases under Chapter 3.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e272	The representative Raymond Robertsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e275	I find only reason to state that the proposal just presented by the representative Robertsen does not express his view of the Right. It's a vision that the representative stands for alone. The rest of the Right, including in Lagtinget, is on what we have said in Odelstinget, and we refer to the very good and thorough debate that was in Odelstinget on this matter, where I think we got a broad compromise that will benefit all groups in Finnmark. It will benefit Finnmark and Norway as a whole. So right, with the exception of the representative Robertsen, is on what we were on in Odelstinget – just so it's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e280	It may not be common for state councils to take the floor in matters of the Creation, but this is not a common cause either. It is a matter which is very special, both because it is complex in character and because it is also a matter of law dealing with the decision of the ILO Convention. The adoption of the ILO Convention in the Great Britain in its time is true to say not very many leaders of the afterlife. It must be of the more resolutely adopted conventions incorporated into Norwegian law, which means that once one has done so, there is an obligation for the future to find a solution, and in the future, the following occurs: Firstly, the Judicial Committee, on behalf of the Stortinget and in consultation with the Presidency, will launch historical consultations with the Sametinget. At the same time, there is a process in which the current government – after the Justice Committee has asked independent international law professionals to assess the legislative proposal after they have made critical comments, and after the Justice Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has come up with views – chooses to say in a letter to the Stortinget in April and June last year that there may be a basis for further action in the legislative proposal that has been submitted. In Norwegian, it means that a government is doing something as untraditional as committing some sort of self-criticism, in that way it says that something more has to be done here, because you're in a demanding and very difficult terrain. As a result, both in Stortinget, between the party groups that do this job together in the Justice Committee, and then between the representatives of Stortinget, Sametinget and the County Council in Finnmark, there is a dialogue. Out of this dialogue, in a very difficult case, there is a joint proposal which brings together a broad majority, first in the Justice Committee, then in the Odel Stingen, and, at the same time, leads to a circa. two-thirds majority of Finnmark county council and a unanimous assembly ends up on this law. This is done at the same time as the Government presents general rules on consultation with regard to the Sameting on various issues relating to the rights of indigenous people. In other words, this law has been produced in a particularly thorough manner in a very comprehensive consultation and dialogue process that has taken place since the legislative proposal was submitted in 2003. Then it can be added that before there is the setting of the Samerrechtscommittee, and before that again, the Alta conflict lies with everything in it, and for my part – I like to say it in the Lagtinget – I don't think it was right to have to discover at the age of 36–37 that I had never learned as a Norwegian citizen in any form of education in this country about the state's unatriculate land in Finnmark. Then I received a rough adult education, and I have later tried to take it to myself, both as a Norwegian citizen, as a wholesaler and later as a State Council. I feel that the proposal to which Odelstinget joined, first with the suspension of the government parties and the Workers' Party and with the support of the Centre Party and later with subsidiary support from SV, is a document which, in my opinion, is consistent with our international obligations, and which is also to be recommended according to the overall process. The special character of the matter made me think it was right to make these comments at this debate in Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e293	No more people have asked for the word, and we're going to vote. The President would like to suggest that we vote on the proposal of Per Ove Width on behalf of the Progress Party, since there is reason to believe that the Progress Party will support the proposal of Raymond Robertsen when they have fallen. – The President has been accepted for this voting arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e306	The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e320	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e336	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e352	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e368	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e384	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e400	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e416	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e432	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e449	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e465	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e481	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e497	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e513	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e529	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e545	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e561	The constitutional function of the creation is known to be a security mechanism in relation to the role of the Storting as legislator. The treatment of the layering provides an opportunity where we can, with distance to the work of Odelsting, take a look at the daily sordidness of political strategy and, in reflection, correct ourselves where this is necessary. The debate of the last weeks and the proceedings of the copyright law we have witnessed, suggest that the creation of this matter must be actively involved in its task. The creation is the forum in which a debate on the quality of the work of the Storting belongs, and with the treatment of the copyright law as the starting point, this is my concern. The Government Parties believe that both the examination of the copyright law by the Committee and Odelstingen indicate that the proposal for a new copyright law should be sent back to the Government for review before the Stortingen case is brought before it again. I would like to give the following further reasons for this proposal. As legislators, we in Stortinget have a great and complex responsibility. Two key aspects of this are: The adoption of laws which are operational and comprehensible to the population must be based on compliance with our international obligations. If we do not carry out these two tasks consistently, we undermine the image and authority of Storting, not only to our own citizens, but also to our international partners. This is a serious perspective, and it should be the Creation of reflection. Let me first go into our relationship with citizens of our own country: the acceptance of having rights to copyright has grown through a long historical process. Today's rules find their basis on a laboriously structured respect and understanding of the audience that paying for copyright is in common interest with the authors. The principle principle is that the creator of the copyright has the exclusive right to dispose of his work. This exclusive right has been modified by a number of provisions laid down in the Law on Private Use, Use for Education, News Coverage, etc. These are restrictions on the legal sphere of authors that deal with well-balanced boundaries developed over a long period of time. The exclusive rights of authors are not only enshrined in Norwegian law, but are also the cornerstone of the main international treaty in the area, the Berne Convention, a treaty we are of course obliged to do so. Any intervention — I repeat, any intervention — in the authors' exclusive rights shall, in accordance with the Berne Convention provisions as well as under Norwegian law, remain the so-called three-step test. This implies that a derogation from the exclusive right shall be granted only in special and limited cases, it shall not prejudice the normal exploitation of the work and shall not unduly prejudice the legitimate interests of the author. My concern is not to polemise the content of the majority proposed, nor to contest the majority's right to put political leadership in the direction of major interference in the author's exclusive right. My concern is to ask what requirements we as legislators have to make to ourselves when we actually do. In this specific case, this concerns, among other things. on majority comments which show in a slightly different way clear restrictions on the exclusive rights of authors. If these restrictions had been promoted as legislative proposals, they would have been the subject of legal assistance, precise wording, and would have been professionally tested in relation to the three-step test of the Berne Convention and possible other international obligations, such as: coordinating them in Nordic law cooperation, which has also been an important issue in this area of law. So now they're not promoted as legal texts, they're rather lying down as half-wheat shows in a vacuum where there's a lot of uncertainty about what this really means. The fact that, first in the public debate and later in Odelsting's debate, a number of opinions have come forward that seek to explain what has really been meant has not made the matter any better. Then you might be surprised that comments can lead to such powerful reactions. I guess many of us don't think that's important. I have also heard that some of the majority have tried to reassure those affected that it really doesn't play a big role. What do we mean by the comments we write? Is the non-obligatory face that can be used when they are positive to our voters, or is the binding statement that makes the views of the parties visible? In our work we have to take inwards that the comments as a law-worker are an important source of justice. Notes are also political signals of what we are waiting for, in this case by any red-green government. As a result, they are also leading the way in which potential negotiating partners develop their strategies. If you look at how the practical life of copyright works, I think you'll understand why we've had such strong reactions. The work of TONO or Kopinor is not carried out in the courts. It is carried out in direct contact with the users of copyright, and is based on the respect and authority of the system as such. Thus, the observations of the law are of importance not only as a basis for interpreting the specific legal provisions, but in practice perhaps as much as a back ground for the ongoing negotiations between the parties. When the photocopying machine came, we all copied as one, whether we were allowed or not. Slowly, but surely Kopinor has gone the thorny way it has been to make sure to get consideration for this. It didn't happen in the courts, it happened under the cover of a law that in its legal provisions, its law-makers and in its international anchoring was consistent enough for the parties to know what they had to stick to. Some of the comments we now have to make, in conjunction with contributions from the four parties that make up the majority here, undermine in practice what the authors' organisations have to rely on. Of course, the extended interventions described in the comments will be tried by those who otherwise have to pay. And if there's an experience that everyone has tried to get paid for the use of their works, it's that where someone is waiting to get something for free, it's very difficult to reverse the willingness to pay. This is well illustrated in yesterday's Business Day, where the Municipal Councils' Central Association confirms that they will carefully address the signals given in the comments when the agreements with the Copino will soon be renegotiated. So we're dealing with comments that matter to them, but that's not the same way that the legal text is quality guaranteed in relation to the three-step test, that's the basic requirement for what is needed to interfere with the rightholders. The formulations are also not conceptual in relation to what users should relate to. I have used the restriction of exclusive rights as an example. It would lead to too far addressing all issues related to, for example, ‘free use’ or ‘commercial area’. The point is clear: there is still a problematic grey zone for those involved in dealing with what Odelstinget has done. This is not a political craft The Storting may be familiar with! The second aspect of Placing should be noted in this case, under the responsibility of the legislator in relation to our international obligations. We are now inside the so-called MP3 section, i.e. the adopted proposal for a new section 53a. Yes, MP3 paragraph – now it has also become so that the entire copyright law in the press is called the MP3 Act – a focus for reflection, when we know what important and fundamental issues copyright is covered by on the threshold of a new and digitised age. It might tell us something about the weight of the youth organisations of the political parties, and maybe in particular three months before a big decision. Even if it is – although this wallpaper is important enough in the context. The whole space in which the EU directives provide for the formulation of the Norwegian rules. This is about copying CD with copy lock. This is based on the EU's refusal to copy. However, in accordance with Danish rules, the Ministry had softened this somewhat, so that the bill also allowed a copy-block to be breached when this was necessary to have the CD-ROM played on commonly available CD-ROMs, such as car stereo – an area where consumer complaints have occurred. So the Ministry had already extended the EU directive. The central point in relation to the Directive is its requirement to describe an operational limit to which it can be copied. The Ministry set this limit on the transition to a new format. After all batches expressed a clear desire to include MP3 players in the exception, i.e. that MP3 should be allowed, the Ministry has taken note of a proposal from the Government Parties, where MP3 is explicitly mentioned. This proposal therefore still defines a limit as required by the EU directive. However, the majority have landed on a formulation of the legal provision which does not set a limit but which states briefly that copying should be permitted to equipment which is considered to be relevant. Then there is nothing left of the content of the EU regulation, and if we look with light and light for where that limit is to be set, we are left with the question: What can the underlying legal assessment be to claim that this is compatible with our international obligations? The Ministry’s legal expertise in these matters is very well recognised. In response to questions from the Committee, it is explicitly made clear that the majority are in conflict with the Directive – the rights-holders’ organisations and the country’s most prominent lawyers in this area. On the part of the majority, I cannot say that I have taken note of any independent consideration, or public statements from the debate, or observations from a broad range of qualified lawyers who publicly support the formulations of the majority in relation to this issue. It's just said that it's unproblematic, and in some contexts it's obvious that you've discussed this with other lawyers, without any underlying assessments coming up with it. We, as politicians, are to be administrators of the common sense. That's our problem. But in complicated questions of the kind of copyright law travels, it must be obvious that we have thorough and widely available documentation for our positions, at least where, as representatives, we go diametrically across the department's professional assessments. In general, the treatment of cases by large does not seem to be characterised by a great deal of knowledge about the functioning of EU agencies. For example, during the Odelsting negotiations on the copyright law, considerable attention was paid to the fact that the majority would provide additional explanations as to what they included in the proposal for the provision in Section 53(a), i.e. the MP3 paragraph, because that is important in Norwegian context. The working party and SV then made it known that they thought of the same thing as the government parties, but they would not go for the government parties' text proposals. Probably this was a discussion about the pope's beard. EU Court of Justice practice clearly shows that precise opinions of the processor are not considered sufficient to meet the implementation requirements of the EU. I would also like to remind you that as we approach these questions, we are also approaching issues related to Norway's access to veto in such cases and how we are going to deal with them. I guess we won't consciously bypass that issue. Let me briefly sum up: the Committee's and Odelstingen's proceedings have not given a law where text and the processor provide a good tool for the users. A number of issues related to comments of operational importance for users are not adequately quality assured in relation to international commitments. It should be noted that these observations concern the core area of the copyright law, namely the issue of copyright interference. Finally, the majority of Odelstings have adopted a provision that the Ministry and its heaviest expertise in copyright in the most specific opinion are contrary to EU directives, without any concrete legal basis being indicated from the same majority. This cannot be known by Stortinget. The size needs a review where the department elaborates on the themes of which it is now unclear, so that the Stortinget will have a new opportunity to formulate its opinion. Such treatment will also nullify the uncertainties and incurries that are now encroaching on the matter, which will all be earned. On this basis, on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, I take up the following proposals, which are also distributed in the Chamber: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted.Note: It is recommended to Odelstinget to send the bill back to the Government.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e651	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has drawn up the proposal he referred to. The President would draw attention to the fact that the work of colleagues as ‘non-committal foe’ is not parliamentary, and that the expression should therefore not appear in the Chair of the Lamentations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e656	On behalf of the majority in this case, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, I would say that Ot.prp. No 46 on the copyright law was dealt with in detail in Odelstinget last Saturday. The majority do not change the position of this case and refer to the decisions taken at Odelstinget. The majority will therefore vote against the proposal of the representative, Olemic Thommessen, that Odelstinget send the bill back to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e663	No more words have been asked. We shall then vote on the proposal by the representative of the Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e674	The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e688	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-08-upper.ana.ud1734e704	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be in accordance with the Constitution to send the King.
