ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e30	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e41	Forget the old industry! Instead, use the power of electricity for something useful. It'll be more profitable to grow bananas in Tyssedal than to produce aluminium, rolled the financial acrobat Trygve Hegnar on the leadership position in Capital in the middle of the '80s. Former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch and former Minister of Industry Jan P. Syse sneered at the time of Trygve Hegnar's tennis white kkhkasery and started the latest industrial development project Right in Norway. Today, the owners and employees of the process industry are holding shoulder to shoulder through their bonds to ensure that this important industry survives in Norway. It is not easy when the current government has empty toolbox, business neutrality and white tennis socks as the living motive for its business policy. The Bondevik government is powerless, literally powerless, in this matter. Where there is will, there is the way, said Sam Eyde when the electrification of Norway started for approx. 100 years ago. And 100 years later, it's still like this in politics. That's how we in the Workers' Party want it to continue to be. I would like to take this opportunity to thank those parties that today secure a majority for the position we are dealing with. This confirms my previous statements that it is about will and courage. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party show through this setting that we can work together, including on industrial policy. I understand that this is a further challenge for the government parties, who are now once again showing their true face, a lack of industrial policy. For approx. a year ago, the Stortinget – all parties except the Advance Party – the Government requested to launch work on an industrial power market that could ensure power-generating industrial competitiveness. A unanimous committee indicated that the power-generating industry in Norway is one of the most important industries in the country. Today, this industry employs approx. 22,000 people directly and a very important industry for District Norway. The availability of power at competitive prices has been crucial for Norway to have the best, most environmentally friendly and competent industry in the world. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that the majority of the population today, all except the government parties, are demanding the Government to present a case for setting up its own industrial power market. The process industry spends more than DKK 130 billion on export revenue to Norway each year. As long as I have pursued politics, all parties have talked about the importance of becoming less dependent on oil revenue. We have to be because some day the oil revenue ends. Then we have to have more legs to stand on than just basing ourselves on non-renewable resources. The increase in poverty in Norway is a repetition of the political debate. The government chooses to solve the problem through alms to the poorest. But it is unemployment, along with the distribution policy, which is the real challenge of preventing poverty. Industrial employment is essential for the maintenance and further development of the welfare society. Today, the majority of the population stands together with employees in industry, with owners, environmental organisations and the population of the communities affected, to ensure that this industry is also part of the Norwegian industrial community in the future. It is not an easy task when opinion-makers, individual owners of capital, politicians and authorities perceive this industry as a glamour from the past. It seems to us in the Workers' Party that the Government is experiencing the process industry as an anachronism that has survived both SND funds and other subsidies. So let me make it clear: nobody in the majority today is talking about subsidies or prices below market prices. We're talking about an industry that earns hundreds of billions of dollars to society, a competence industry that needs to be leading the world to survive at all. We're talking about showing the will to secure this industry's framework conditions that make them not move to low-cost countries without cleaning requirements. In the case of the Workers' Party, the resulting arrangements must be within the scope of the EEA Agreement. The process industry in Norway is the most environmentally friendly in the world. Over several years, emissions from industry in Norway have been required. This, in turn, has led the industry to become the best in the environment. That's good! Norway also has the most environmentally friendly energy production in industrialised countries. Producing aluminium and metals based on hydropower is a solid global environmental measure. I have noticed that the government parties in the absence of their own policies have quoted several former representatives from the Workers' Party. Of course, we could also choose old quotes, but we do not conduct politics that way – fortunately. For the Workers' Party, the solutions are important. Then one has to deal with today's reality and today's solutions. The Labour Party and the majority of the Stortinget believe that the EEA Agreement provides for mechanisms to ensure competitive prices in the industry. We also believe that the government fears it. Why else would the Government set up a so-called expert committee to determine whether this is possible under the EEA Agreement? For the sake of order, let me refer to two cases where the politicians have provided power to the industry after the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. Sauda expansion: Elkem wanted to expand the power in Sauda to secure the industry power, they said. The Workers' Party then believed that Statkraft should be in charge of the expansion, because we believe that Statkraft should also be responsible for delivering power to the industry. We know all of the results. Each sold the melting plant, but kept the power. There's another debate. Anyone interested in the force and political will should also read the anniversary book of Årdal's work, an industrial history from 1947 to 1997. There is a chapter written by my partner Andreas Hompland. It is a chapter on when Gro Harlem Brundtland was in Årdal on 1 May 1995. That's interesting reading. Hydro itself came into force with an EEA agreement. So that's possible. There are good business cycles in the industry now, and thoughts and plans to expand production if we can achieve power at competitive prices. This is the main challenge for us as energy politicians, industrial politicians and citizens. We must ensure industrial employment, districts, value creation and the environment. It is a sustainable policy! Perhaps the most important task now is to make sure that Norway actually gets enough power available, so that we don't have these debates, so that we don't miss high prices from households and other private ones. It's a different challenge than the one we're facing today. Today, we are going to try to solve an industrial, industrial, community, rural and, not least, value creation problem in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e83	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e86	Three Norwegian governments have dealt with contracts for the supply of electricity to the power-intensive industry, among them the Stoltenberg government. Everyone has come to the same conclusion: we cannot offer power to industry at subsidized prices. When the government of Stoltenberg presented its assessment of power contracts to industry, the then oil and energy minister, Olav Akselsen, said the following: "We don't want to enter a long and uncertain process with ESA. Industry, communities and State power are best served by rapid clarification of long-term power conditions. A case with ESA would postpone the entire process indefinitely.’ It accepted ESA’s objections and realized that the industry could not obtain contracts below market prices. What's new today, which makes the Workers' Party think that ESA has changed its attitude? The EEA Agreement is the same as when the Workers' Party joined the Government. Has anything happened other than that the Workers' Party has gone from being a responsible government party to becoming an opportunistic opposition party? Is the Labour Party not driving the industry and the employees behind the light by giving an illusion that it is possible to offer contracts to industry at prices below the market level? Is it not a service to the industry to make it think that it will get reasonable strength through political decisions in the Storting and not through negotiations in the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e100	I'm surprised at the reasoning of the formerly called "fashion," Right. It could actually as well be a left-wing representative who had the line that was now put forward. I believe that I clarified in my post that this should be market conditions. I record that the Government, and now also the government parties at Stortinget, are constantly talking about «under market price». But it doesn't actually do the majority. In that case, the parties to the Government should go along with themselves and see if they will not, however, be involved in the proposals that have been put forward here today. So there's a broad political consensus here about making a longer-term market than what's in Norpool, and it's of course the government's free to be part of it. But it's not about price under market conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e109	It is sometimes heard that the representative Klungland and the Workers' Party agree with the Progress Party that the main problem for industry and general supply is a lack of power. It may also look like this if you read the settings and listen to the representative Klungland today. However, when concrete action is taken, the Labour Party fails. I can mention Stoltenberg's New Year's speech about ending the hydroelectric expansion – the expansion of Obere Otta, which was halved, the Saltberg/Blacken extension, which was stopped, and last but not least Saudi, which was also halved. In addition, at least twice in this room, the Workers' Party has voted in favour of technology requirements for gas power plants, i.e. CO2 requirements, which make it impossible to build profitable works. Will the representative of Klungland tell us where the Workers' Party is going to bring power to the power-generating industry, when they vote against almost all measures that can increase production in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e121	I feel that we have had this debate before. But it is actually the case that the Workers' Party has granted a concession to expand 12 TWh in Norway that has not been expanded. In fact, we believe that there is a responsibility on the part of the government. When the Energy Policy spokesman for Right, Leif Frode Onarheim, and Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss at the oil conference said that Einar Steensnæs, who was then the Council of State, had to sit down with these power companies to build the gas power plants, we actually expect, once the Right has got the Council of State, that that's exactly what they're doing. So we're waiting with excitement for more power to expand. We've given concessions to meet the current power demand. But it is clear that in the future, too, we will have a challenge in terms of gaining power, and I will, together with the representative, Mr Waksdal, be involved in producing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e126	I can confirm that we, the red-green ones, work within the EEA Agreement's framework. We don't do what the right-wing government is doing, do the action frame by pushing it in front of him in a lot of cases – including this one. We're trying to get to something. But it's not easy, it's quite right, because the housekeeper's contract, as the EEA Agreement is, is driving to take power from this hall – in more and more areas. That club down in ESA is working against all the senses in Norway. When we want a differentiated employer's fee, when the Norwegian people want it, we are not allowed to do it. When we are going to have the Homefall Institute and ownership of Norwegian Footfalls, we are not going to be allowed to do so. It's right-wing cheering. But there must be a problem after all for the Workers' Party, which is in favour of this EEA Agreement, when an area by region is deprived of control. Will the Workers' Party now, in the new red-green alliance, make sure to get something done with this housekeeper's contract?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e133	The answer is yes. A large majority in the Labour Party want us to enter the EU and participate in and influence the framework conditions to which we should deal. That means yes. However, when the EEA Agreement was concluded, there was therefore a threat from the EU that Norwegian industry would be penalised of about 80 p.m., if I remember correctly, because they were to protect the internal market. The EEA Agreement is important because we are going to have access to a market where we mainly sell products from this industry. That is why the EEA Agreement is important! We in the Workers' Party believe that, even if a meeting meets arrangements within the EU, or that Norway has to accept EU laws a lot, we have the opportunity, within the framework of the EEA Agreement, to facilitate industrial development in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e142	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e146	Industry is still a cornerstone of our value creation. The process industry, often called the power-intensive industry, has developed to be the world’s top in productivity and energy efficiency, is environmentally friendly and is also mainly located in District Norway. The consumption of power is the highest single cost for this part of industry. It is therefore quite natural that an overall collapse is concerned with ensuring sufficient power for the enterprises at acceptable prices and with a high degree of predictability. The Energy Act has mainly worked after the intention. The market has worked satisfactorily. In fact, price levels have increased somewhat, and spot prices have been good, so that relatively few long-term contracts have been signed. It is necessary over time to have a reasonable balance between supply and demand if a market is to function. Unfortunately, for many years in the United Kingdom, we have stopped important power deployments due to adverse environmental impacts — some real ones and some with little negative effects. It has become increasingly clear to most people that we now need to bring more electricity into the market, while encouraging continued investment in energy efficiency. Norway now has a power supply deficit, even in the year of normal rainfall. There is a significant potential for upgrading older power plants, for the construction of small-scale power plants and for the conversion of electricity consumption with a view to more efficient use. In addition to important savings measures, the most important thing we can do is to ensure that new forces are developed. This concerns new renewable energy, such as wind, wave, tidal and bioenergy. The closest thing that can fit into the power supply and that can quickly enter the market is the development of gas power. It is therefore my hope that the three gas power plants that have a concession – in the first instance the gas power plant at Kårstø – can be realized. The majority of the members of the Committee on Energy and the Environment also have a number of other proposals which it is considered possible to implement in order to ensure the strength of the process industry at acceptable prices. Why have the Government parties not been able to support these proposals? The EEA Agreement requires the functioning of a market. The question of creating mechanisms that ensure the strength of industry in addition to purely market-based schemes has been assessed several times in the ministry, there have been discussions with ESA, and expertise has been consulted, but the answer has always been the same: this will not be feasible. Industry needs above all predictability. I wanted to feel it was to throw blues in the eyes of management and employees in the companies as if something easy fix was possible to solve the power problems for the industry. The vast majority of enterprises in this part of the industry have also secured a significant amount of power in terms of contracts from Norwegian and foreign suppliers, but still there are a few where government contracts are subsequently concluded and where the companies have not secured new long-term contracts in the market. I don't think we at Stortinget should delay these in obtaining contracts, as other companies have done, in an uncertain hope that a separate industrial power regime will save the power balance. There will be no more power in the market – yes, there will not be a single new kWh – by creating a separate market and distributing the limited amount of power in another way. However, similar industries in the EU also face the same problems: low long-term power available and high prices. I am aware that there is a close dialogue between the European industry and the European Commission to assess alternative solutions. The Government has therefore specifically requested the Government to follow closely the process in the EU and, if the EU Commission is to provide a green light for special schemes for this industry, consider similar measures in Norway. Some in this room will accuse the Government and government parties of inaction, indifference to industry and little willingness to find solutions. This is all wrong! I feel sure that the industry will agree with us that the increased focus on power availability, generally good framework conditions and honesty and honesty in what we think we can achieve from special arrangements is important. Of course, we can also lean back and say that we can actually figure this out once again, let time go over the election and pretend that we believe in the possibilities. Instead, we choose an open and realistic approach to these issues. However, in order to reverse every stone and quality assurance of what can be permitted, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has set up an expert group to review all aspects of this issue. Once again, government parties have clarified that if the expert group were to reveal opportunities, the government would have to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way. We want a strong, profitable and competitive process industry in Norway. Access to power, predictable framework conditions, realistic future assessments and an interest rate and exchange rate with which industry can survive is the most important thing we from the Stortinget can do to secure businesses. We all have a great responsibility here in this Chamber. The right, Christian People's Party and the left will vote in favour of proposal I and vote against the other Roman numerous proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e177	I totally agree that the most important requirement for this industry to continue its activity from Norway is that we ensure enough power, and that there will be a balance in our energy again. The problem today is that those who want to buy power in the Nordic market don't find sellers. It is impossible to get long-term contracts, simply because the prospects for the spot market are so good, because there is a deficit. One might get the impression that this deficit is due only to the fact that politicians have seen one stop for some concrete suggestions, but in my view this is a broader matter than that. Energy laws have now worked for 15 years. She has a lot of positive sides, but in my view she has failed at the most important, easy to contribute to the fact that there is enough power in the market. For me, it's totally incomprehensible that one couldn't at any rate agree to ask to get the Energy Law evaluated, with a view to bringing in new instincts, so that one could bring about new power.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e184	Unlike many in this room, I'm busy trying to see where we agree. Fortunately, we agree that the power supply is the most important thing. That is why we must take care of it. But when the representative Akselsen says that in the spot market there are so good times and good prices in the future that there will be no long-term – yes, that’s what the market is. How, then, can we defend the idea of creating a system that offers prices under the market? Then we are back to what the representative Klungland so skillfully avoided, where he said this is not to get lower prices in the market, it is not subsidizing. So we're in a situation where we have to make sure that companies use the opportunities they have to get long-term contracts, and most companies have got them. There are only a few companies that do not have long-term contracts today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e191	The lot Right likes to be presented as a lot on the business side. The Party Right proposed and adopted a proposal about a year ago asking the Government to initiate a new generation of power contracts for power-generating industries, adapted to the industry’s need for power at competitive prices. Now we see that the party that was behind the proposal will no longer be involved in completing the work that has begun. Can the representative of Onarheim give me a single sensible explanation as to why the Right now jumps off his own proposal and initiative and refuses to give a necessary handshake to the power-generating industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e198	Yes, I can. What has happened is that you have checked further whether it is possible to create a regime that can be approved by ESA, and that you are not arrested at that point. That's exactly what's been done. So you've been through a number of processes, one government after another, also this last year, and one has unfortunately not been able to do this. Then we have said that it is still the case that industry in the European Union also has its problems. And once again, if they come up with some suggestions that the Commission accepts, then we should also consider whether there might be anything for Norwegian industry. That is the position we have taken, and I feel that we have followed up what we were going to, and have been told that this cannot be done in a way that does not conflict with the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e203	We red-green are very busy trying to get this done. It doesn't seem to me that the old industrial man Onarheim is interested in this at all. A year ago he was simply that, and he said he was positive about setting up a regime for industry. It has now clearly changed. Then one, says the representative Onarheim, has set down an expert group. It put together one of the people who, according to the Business of the Day, a year ago said that the easiest way to do this was to bring down the power needs. In that case, the industry would be brought to a standstill, and then one of the representatives of the market would be given more power. There can hardly be any particular optimism in this selection to achieve this. It's also not the government's will when one puts such people there. My question is, when PIL, LO, environmental movement and others in Norway actually think that this is possible, what really makes Onarheim not believe it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e212	I am happy to be here at a time when industry is going down, where there is great optimism around the companies, and where the policies that have been taking place over the last few years have contributed – we do not want to take all the credit – that this has happened. So that's how the Right and Government are still concerned about the industry, and we're doing what we can to get fair and good conditions of competition. That doesn't mean you have to subsidize businesses. This does not mean sewing cushions under the arms of businesses that do not manage, but making sure that it is the good, viable businesses that get reasonable conditions. The reason why I have turned around, as someone says, is that you have checked this. It makes no sense to review the whole process with the EEA, because other things can get into the wake of what could destroy a number of our businesses by coming up with new problems, which could be dangerous for the further development of industry Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e219	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e222	When the Storting five to six years ago adopted a liquidation regime for government-determined power contracts, this was not an initiative that we invented even here in the house. It was according to clear demands from ESA. We even had to go two rounds in Stortinget before ESA was satisfied. In fact, there were not so many industrial protests at that time. In fact, many industrial companies had come to us in advance and on their own entered into market-based contracts with good conditions. However, there is a very big difference in the Norwegian power market at the time and now. At that time, there was a reasonably good balance between supply and demand in power. Today, the gap between supply and demand is large, and this increases for every year. In 2004, we imported net to Norway over 11 TWh, which was largely produced either by coal-fired power plants or by nuclear power plants. I think it is important to mention this, as consideration of the environment is used as a main argument not to facilitate increased power generation in Norway. The consequences of this lack of power generation are, of course, that security of supply for both industry and general supply is being weakened and the power price in the market is being driven upwards. I think it's amazing that we, who live in a country that almost floods with energy, have been able to cope so that we put general power supply at risk and at the same time drive the price so high that we also put thousands of jobs in the power-generating industry at risk. About one year ago, the size decided to ask the Government to initiate a new generation of power contracts for power-processing industries, to adapt the industry’s need for power to competitive prices and with clear energy efficiency objectives under EEA legislation. The government acknowledged in its draft budget that this was impossible to achieve. The Energy and Environment Committee decided to withdraw this chapter from the ordinary budgetary procedure in order to devote more time to these important issues. The matter has been dealt with in depth within the Committee, which has also been consulted by interested parties. In the committee hearing, there were clear signals from both industry and trade union teams that we now had to adopt no structures in this matter that did not keep water to ESA. The Progress Party today provides a majority for a number of proposals to explore different solutions that can provide the power of the power-generating industry at reasonable prices. There seems to be a broad consensus on the introduction of an option market, where a kind of insurance premium can be paid in the form of a reduced power price to industry, against the fact that industry is making power available in particularly difficult periods. There also appears to be a broad consensus on taking the necessary steps to ensure that the application of the network tariff is removed for the companies affected by it today. The remaining investigation proposals are being promoted today by an overall opposition. These proposals, however, have little impact on the main problem. During the committee hearings, there were also crystal clear messages from industry and trade union teams that the power market was not working. They were at least as crystal clear on what caused the market to fail, namely a lack of power. And the lack of power is again due to political intervention on the supply side of the market, preventing new and increased power generation. In this case, one unfortunately sees that the main focus is on how to distribute the scarce quantities of force we have, instead of doing something to get more power. When you read the comments in the setting, it may actually look like most people have understood this, but when there is concrete action, it stops it all. Today, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal for a power package, literally, in order to get something done about this unsustainable situation. In the package, we propose to re-examine previously reduced or rejected hydropower projects, to identify the power potential and to promote a new case for Stortinget. We also propose a monitoring and review of the power potential by upgrading and expanding existing facilities and instruments that can realise this potential. We also propose tax measures to stimulate increased power generation, and we also propose that technology-neutral instruments be used in any aid scheme for power generation. We will also provide clear assurances that gas power plants in Norway will not have more stringent emission requirements than others in the EEA area, as well as that the mechanisms contained in the Kyoto Agreement will be fully exploited. We also propose that state participation should involve assessments, investigations and co-financing of natural gas infrastructure, and we propose to make concrete provision for the award of several gas power concessions based on BAT, Best Available Technology, and without any specific requirements for CO2 management. And last but not least, we are proposing to strengthen cooperation between Nordic energy authorities, as well as to secure state networks as the necessary means of managing the system to improve exchange mechanisms towards the rest of the world, as well as the necessary instruments to enable them to secure power supplies during critical periods. The majority of the population today lend a handshake to the industry by wanting to investigate and look at a number of instruments that can improve the situation. The Progress Party shall ensure a majority in this respect. We want to turn every rock to see if it's possible to get to anything. What is adopted today is well and good, but very close enough. Without a significant increase in power generation, the situation for both industry and general supply will only deteriorate in the coming years. I now think it is time for the majority in this Chamber to put away their symbolic environmental arguments that they themselves know not to keep water, and to support the proposals of the Progress Party, which will ensure the power-generating industry and thousands of Norwegian jobs for many years to come. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e251	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e257	Over this growing period, the Progress Party has talked a lot about double communication. But then they claim that it applies mostly to parties other than themselves. In this case, however, one can prove that the Progress Party has turned around. In the Protocol of 18 May, where the Stortinget asks the Government to initiate a new generation of power contracts for power-generating industries, adapted to the industry’s need for power at competitive prices and with clear efficiency objectives within the EEA Agreement, the President says: ‘The President assumes that the Party of Presidents wishes to vote against. – It is confirmed.’» The vote result below is as follows: ‘The opinion of the Committee was adopted by 85 votes to 16, with no votes against and no votes against.’ What is the reason why the Progress Party has turned around in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e274	It is right, as the representative of Klungland claims, that the Progress Party did not support the position and the proposal that was put forward here in Stortinget, to ask the Government to draw up a new form of power contracts, because we simply believed at the time that this was not possible. However, in the course of the process we have received some signals that it might still be possible. As I said in my main post, we are willing to ‘turn every stone’ to see if there are solutions we can go into this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e281	The representative, Mr Vaksdal, has quite rightly focused on what is the main problem and the main challenge for the power-generating industry, namely access to power. The representative, Mr Vaksdal himself, says in his speech that the proposals supported by the Progress Party have little bearing on the main problem. I very much agree with the representative of Vaksdal on that. I find it strange that the Progress Party supports the proposal for a separate industrial power market. As far as I can see, it will not add one TWh to the market, it will not bring any more power to the market. Then I have to be allowed to ask questions about what is at all the point for the Progress Party by supporting this. Don't give it more power, but on the contrary, we see it as a game for the gallery, where one throws blues in the eyes of the industry by saying that it should be able to access power at good prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e288	The representative Meling and I obviously agree that the main problem is a lack of access to power. As far as an industrial power regime is concerned, we have not said that we support it, but we have said that we support an investigation of this. We don't know if there's any solution there, but we're at least willing to turn every stone, as I said before. We have a very comprehensive proposal that is just about the main problem, the access to power, and which I would recommend to the representative Meling and Right to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e297	It is gratifying, but also surprising that the Progress Party is now supporting the proposal for an investigation into its own industrial power regime – amazing among others. because they opposed an investigation in the treatment of the security of supply notification. Now we have a clear red-green alternative that makes choices for the autumn, which is quite clear that you want an industrial power regime. Then I notice that the representative, Vaksdal, does not believe that the absence of long-term industrial power contracts is a major problem. If you want to go into government with the Right Party, which is clear against this, how can you possibly defend this? Will long-term power contracts for industry be sacrificed on the co-operation altar, just building some gas power plants? This may seem to be the wish of the representative, Mr Vaksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e304	Once again, I must stress that we support an investigation of both an industrial power regime and a number of other things. So we want to get a better basis for making a final decision. As for our relationship with the Right, the representative may have noticed in the previous line that the representative was Meling and I agree on what is the main problem, namely a lack of power, but we're probably a little bit in disagreement about the instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e311	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e314	Let me start by thanking the case spokesman for important contributions to the fact that the red-green father appears as more management and right of action than the blue mara, who sits and looks up in the toolbox that contains only one thing, and that's more market economy. Then use one of the EEA Agreements and push it forward. It would have been better to use a tool that you actually have if you want, and this is about political will. That will has the red-green father. [[Langland]] Industry and the environment are often produced as two straight opposites. Yes, individual parties, and unfortunately also parts of tradesmanship, believe it. The progress and parts of trade can sometimes give the impression that the more smoke and pollution it is, the better it is for the industry, and its guarantors are our jobs. The construction of highly impurityable gas power stations is such a case. But what do environmental requirements contribute to? Well, just to secure jobs, just to increase the competence of environmental technologies and just to create a more forward-looking industry. There is also SV's main focus today when we want to participate in creating a new industrial power regime. Then we'll set some conditions for the industry. This was also done in 1999, when, in cooperation with PIL, Chemical Trade Unions and Environmental Movements, we developed a proposal for a price of 12.50 øre, against environmental requirements, precisely because one has the potential to become even better than one actually is, even though the Norwegian process industry is world-leading. SV is pleased that today there will be multiple numbers by the Progress Party supporting the red-green danger, but unfortunately we believe that there must be a new government in place if there is to be a reality. It appears that this government is only busy with one thing, using ESA, pushing them forward and making sure that the industry doesn't get what he should have. There must be a strange position to be in for old Right people, who say that Right is a business. But that's how the world can change. Environmental requirements reduce competitiveness and endanger jobs, some say. That's exactly what it's not doing. Let's look at what the CO2 charge has done for the Norwegian base: Had we had Sleipner and CO2 separation if we hadn't had a high CO2 charge? Had we developed that separation technology if we hadn't? No, we didn't. Could we have ensured without environmental requirements for the industry to export reindeer technology from Kristiansand to China within this industry? No, we couldn't. Would we have been able to export from this industry some of the slags that previously fell down Norway's population and Norwegian nature, if we had not had environmental requirements? No, no, no. So environmental requirements provide for billions of income by using the pollution. This had not happened without strong pressure from the environmental movement and, among other things, the lot I represent. Now it has become a competitive advantage, and it has to be exploited when we are about to create a new industrial power regime. Then we have to make sure that we keep the tet position that we have within the power-consuming industry and the environment. That's what it's important to bring with it for the blue mara. Nature and youth said in their ears: A lot of consideration is given to securing Norwegian power-consuming industry, including environmental considerations. So even the movement of the environment puts the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right together. Today, only the government's market liberals are not responsible for the environment, industry and trade unions' demands to secure a new industrial power regime. We don't really need such an anti-industrial government anymore. But unfortunately, it's not just me who decides. There must be another option to replace the Government. But it's an important signal we get here today, when we get a message from the Government that we can't do anything. While we think that now we have to do something, now we have to make use of the possibilities we have, this government says that no, ESA has said that it's not legal, the EEA Agreement has us, but we can't do anything. They have said it several times when the Storting has ordered them to make suggestions. Then it won't help if a leader integrates non-industry workers in Norway. In that case, an actual user must use the expertise that exists to maintain the industry, for example: within the PIL and within the trade movement. Then there must be a wise will. I feel that that will is not present. There is no doubt, as Almestad, former ESA President, says in Today's Business, that Norway has become more market-driven. Many politicians think it's good. It can only be helpful to hide it behind the EEA Agreement and ESA from time to time. That's what we're experiencing with this government. They want more market economy, more market power and less popular governance. And that's what we see in this case about the industrial power regime. I think that now you have to look again in the Toolbox and see if it's possible to find something other than a market economy in answer to everything from the Right side. You can easily find tools, and the tool we are presenting today is from a red-green option, with support from the Progress Party. ESA has thus become an instrument with which the Government can press ahead to gain more market economy, and it intends to continue with it. If you intend to continue with it with a new government, there will be a problem, even for the red-green option. As long as very many in the Workers' Party regard the EEA as a housekeeper's contract, and the Centre Party and SV are opposed to a different agreement, it will probably be possible to resolve that we have a different policy from that experienced by this government, close to ESA and the EEA Agreement. There must sometimes be a basis to point back a little bit to these kings in ESA when they make recommendations about this and hints. It has now been ordered not to be able to differentiate the employer’s fee because it is contrary to the competition rules. You should not be able to strengthen your territory in Norway. An order is issued to sell Norwegian Falls. This is going to be right. Right will have removed a differentiated employer fee. Right will privatize Norwegian Falls. It's a brilliant instrument. But now a selection from the Right side has to start fooling. When ESA comes and says that we will now ban renewable subsidisation, because it is distorting in terms of coal power and nuclear power, it is time for a different party than only SV to put its foot down. The EEA Agreement is a bit like membership of a club. The majority of this room may not announce themselves, even if their membership does not make sense. Despite the fact that one is still exceeding what is Norwegian reasoning, ESA says that they have to tolerate this, because that is how it is. There is no multiple that determines. It's not reasonable to decide any more. So it's a government down in Brussels to govern Norwegian democracy. The test piece on ESA is now becoming, among other things. the new industrial power regime for which the plurality applies today. If ESA is to operate as a club that counters its own opinions and believes that its members are well off, SV prefers membership in other clubs where member democracy decides. SV would like to contribute to the further development of the Norwegian industry, not least in the districts. We want to work to get a new industrial power regime in place. We will ensure that Norwegian industry continues as the most environmentally friendly in the world and is even better, for example. by imposing energy recovery. SV thinks it's the voters who decide the direction of our industrial and environmental policies. Today's debate shows that the red-green father will do something, while the blue mara just sits and can't do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e356	The President must state that he sees the need to get the rhyme to Langeland to go up. But when he refers to the government parties as the 'blue mara', it is outside the recommended parliamentary vocabulary. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e361	I am very pleased that today's red-green government option is being put together on a policy to secure our industry's opportunities for long-term and predictable power agreements. It promises good for the future. Nor am I against making the EU the big, ugly wolf – you all know how I view it. But in this case I am afraid that the wolf is used to shade for a completely different purpose. The Labour Party has put forward seven concrete proposals today that put forward a policy to ensure 22,000 industrial jobs in key corner stone companies around the country. It is great that SV joins the Workers' Party and proposes good industrial measures. I am therefore very concerned whether we see today a positive basis for the new offensive red-green industrial policy of SV. SV does not only have environmental requirements in the Toolbox?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e371	No, SV does not only have environmental policies in the Toolbox. We have an offensive rural and industrial policy. We have a policy for the north and for North Norway. We have a broad, holistic policy that makes sure that there are people in all of this country. That's what we feel about this government that – now I guess I'm not allowed to say that word – the action frame in relation to. They don't want anything for the districts. They don't want anything for Norwegian industry. Then a red-green option is needed, and there is SV completely clear. Otherwise, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV in cooperation have trained, by making these seven proposals. This is exactly how we illustrate that we are doing something new. And Norway needs something new.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e378	Every time it approaches a choice, it always happens very strange, and we see that this year too. I almost don't think my own ears when I hear the representative Langeland and the other candlemates in the Socialist Left Party talk hot about industry and jobs. I remember the Stortinget about the party's attitude towards both hydropower and gas power development. Everyone in this room knows that with the representative Langeland's energy policy, power-processing industry in Norway would have been closed in a few years. In the setting, the Socialist Left Party notes energy efficiency, where the lot actually supports entering a future green certificate market for waste gas and cooling water energy recovery. Will the representative of Langeland explain whether this is optional bottle or whether the batch will follow up when the Storting will adopt a green certificate market?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e387	I don't think SV can win a World Cup championship. We have a competitor who surpasses everyone in this Chamber and who cracks in absolutely all the directions that exist in the political fields. It also applies to this case, where one is completely schizophrenic, where it goes that both is for industrial power and is against it, and in another moment one has voted against it. Here I think I've been turned off by a very good competitor that I can never beat, I think. When it comes to the issue of the SV's energy policy, SV has now consistently proposed, and some times it has been implemented for new renewable energy. It helps make people less power-dependent. The party of progress has been here for so many years now and has been crying out strongly for impure gas power stations. They couldn't build one! We have been able to do something in SV. When the results are so small, I think I'd like to have the checkout series.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e394	SV put his foot down, says the representative Langeland. In the setting on page 7, we don't see much of it. We find, on the other hand, a very special section where the Socialist Left Party goes in for increased power production. Note it! A tool may be to convert some of the largest hydropower storage systems into multi-year storage. SV has previously gone in to have larger water resources in the warehouse and to prevent power companies from losing to lower levels of regulation. There may be good insurance, but there will be reduced water power generation and higher power prices instead of increasing power generation, which SV is now entering into its new policy. Can the representative of Langeland explain how SV will get more hydropower production out of significantly smaller quantities of water? Does SV think that the dams should be built higher, or is it that the calculation piece of SV and Langeland does not hang in the new alliance with the Progress Party, the Working Party and the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e403	Now it is well that the Christian People's Party has more training than SV in being on the team with the Progress Party. Even if we have a Feda alliance in the Energy and Environment Committee that turns on and off, it is enough that there can be a Christian People's Party more than that SV can tell the Christian People's Party. What that comment and the proposal for a decision is all about is something SV has worked too long. We have to get a revision of the energy laws, and then one has to go into all the different sides of it. What's going to be a rhetorical point is whether we're going to increase the dams, or whether we're going to build more water power. That's not our intention. But we want to assess whether the energy laws work, and then through our packages we'll make sure that there's more energy in the market. So we have a package of 20 TWh, which the representative Liones knows very well, which is new renewable energy. There is a failure of the Christian People's Party. SV is on and on after 12 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e412	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e415	The matter that we have to deal with has a bearing on the fact that it is an election campaign soon. Some of the posts I think point in that direction. Not least the representative Leknes was clear on this by that he relates it to the fact that they, the red-green alliance, are ready to go to elections. So that also means on this case. 15 years ago, the Stortinget decided to establish a free power market in Norway. All lots except SV supported this. It was for all intents and purposes the Central Party's own state council that designed the bill at the time. We are today part of a common Nordic power market with European rules of play. The closing date for the contracts that are now being phased out is getting closer and closer, without the parties that are currently involved in the creation of a majority, having done a great deal to facilitate an alternative, rather the opposite. Three Norwegian governments, Bondevik I, the government of Stoltenberg and Bondevik II, have dealt with these contracts for the supply of electricity to the power-intensive industry and reached exactly the same conclusion. We no longer have the opportunity to offer power-intensive industry new power contracts at subsidised prices. Other variants of price reductions, for which the industrial power market for which the majority currently operates, are also difficult to obtain under the EEA Agreement. In all previous processes in the Storting around these power contracts, there has been a broad understanding that the time of subsidised power to industry is over. That this majority is no longer present, we can only take note. The only discount scheme that may be possible under the EEA Agreement is the option scheme also described in the Government’s proposal. This system is known as being designed. Industry has shown for several years that power contracts under so-called political conditions are over. Most companies have taken the consequences of this. Companies such as Elkem, Norsk Hydro and Norske Skog have for a long time concluded large, long-term commercial contracts for the supply of power. State power and waterfalls together have replaced a significant part of the volume phased out, as the so-called old power regime now disappears. The big paradox in this case is that the so-called crisis referred to in relation to individual companies is obviously not present. At the same time, the industrial enterprises which have concluded long-term contracts have themselves expressed their satisfaction with the agreements they have obtained in the market. Together with low interest rates – a result of a responsible economic policy and strong export markets – the industry in Norway today has good times, and industrial production is increasing. It is primarily this industry's demand, and the Government has, in my opinion, delivered. The Christian People's Party and the government parties will also facilitate the conditions for Norwegian industry in terms of power, but it is nevertheless important for us, and of course crucial for the industry, to have a power regime in Norway and the Nordic countries within the EEA acquis. Through thorough legal assessments and several rounds of the EU system, the Government has concluded that the solution with its own industrial power market does not hold water. When the opposition writes in the statement that the relevant framework conditions attached to the EEA Agreement have not been examined, it is difficult to understand what is actually being considered. I hope that the opposition can be quite specific on what points you're talking about here. I assume that former oil and energy minister Olav Akssen in the Stoltenberg government also went the necessary rounds with the EU system before turning the thumb down for subsidised power contracts to industry. That was probably also why he drew the same conclusion that the Cooperation Government has now reached. The question is: Did Olav Akselsen evaluate all relevant framework conditions at the time? I assume the answer is yes. I trust that. If the opposite turns out to be the case, of course, it's unfortunate. The question is: What new revelations in this field have the Workers' Party come to that would be so interesting in relation to knowing more? Neither this setting nor the report written by the Working Party give us any answers. Further investigations into a separate industrial power market for a long time in the future will be to provide a bear service to the industry which has not yet obtained new contracts under so-called market conditions. It would give an illusion that, despite the EEA Agreement, the authorities could obtain power contracts under conditions that were better than those they could otherwise achieve in the market and would waste valuable time. Giving people, in this case the industry, false hopes is a well-known strategy for short-term profit, but it has never paid off worth mentioning in length. Government parties agree that we should follow developments in the EU in this area. If the EU finds solutions that give industry lower prices of power than is natural, we will assess these systems, but now that we know not to lead to anything, it is to abuse both time and resources. And there is no clarification on this issue within the EU system today. What Norwegian industry needs is power. Norwegian industry did not primarily demand new industrial power regimes during this period. They have primarily called for competitiveness based on a low interest rate. This has been delivered by the Government, and as a consequence, among other things. of the government's economic policy goes the industry today to swindle. While the vast majority of Norwegian industry has concluded long-term contracts, the challenge for industry will, however, continue to be in a position to generate enough energy in the future. And I also believe that this government has taken the initiative through a comprehensive, comprehensive energy policy. We've triggered more hydropower in the period that the Government has been sitting, than throughout the 1990s. It tells about will, and it tells us that we have the ability to act, and not about paralysis. The representative of Klungland said in his speech that the government lacks courage and will, the government lacks a toolbox. It's an interesting observation and an interesting statement, when this government has actually done exactly the same thing as his own state council in the previous labor party government added up, which drew exactly the same conclusions, which used exactly the same instruments and the same tool. At that time, the representative of Klungland flattened himself and said: we must not challenge the EU system, because then we create insecurity in Norwegian industry. Our challenge will not create further uncertainty for Norwegian industry in the future. I am afraid that those who have not already concluded long-term contracts may lean back in the hope that there will be a political solution to this. Then these processes go out on time, with the consequences it can have for Norwegian industry. Government parties are subject to industrial conditions. But at the same time, we are concerned that we should be open and honest with the industry in our approach to this issue. We won't be able to create illusions and believe that something can come sometime in the future that we won't be able to fulfill. The uncertainty and unforeseeability of the Norwegian industry will not facilitate the government parties and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e448	In the case of the Christian People's Party, they at least like to say that they are the environmental party, the family party and the district party. When we know that these businesses are located in the districts, when we know that there are many in a family that depend on these businesses, and when we know that these companies have an environmental technology that is not there, does not the Christian People's Party seem to be reluctant to sit in a government that is not trying to look at the opportunities that exist in this matter, in order to contribute to a better environmental policy, family policy and district policy by supporting the proposals for a better industrial policy, including in relation to the districts? So it's going to work. I want to know if the representative of the Christian People's Party can say a little about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e453	The answer to that question is not very difficult. I would probably feel a little distressed by standing on the platform here if this government had not shown the will to try. But that is not the reality. This government has gone through exactly the same processes as two governments have done before, and reached the exact same conclusion. At that time, it was argued this way from the Workers' Party here in the Chamber: we cannot challenge the ESA system in such a way that we create uncertainty for Norwegian industry. No, we don't. Therefore, the Workers' Party's response under the Stoltenberg government was correct, and it was wise. That's the exact same answer that the Labour Party gave the time that we're giving today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e460	The representative, Rahm, says the government has delivered. He repeats it several times: the government has delivered it. Today we have a debate on the industrial power regime. What has the Government delivered in relation to a new industrial power regime? I found it difficult to find on the basis of what we are discussing today. Well, for what the government has supplied, it's zero. And if delivering zero is delivering, I have to say it seems very strange. What is the government's actual supply when it comes to the industrial power regime? That's one question. So it's actually the process industry, the trade union movement and the environmental movement say that this is possible, and that the government is wrong about ESA. Then the Christian People's Party must be occupied with making real attempts, not just with the Right's weak attempts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e470	I'm recording that Hallgeir H. Langeland is based on its great trust in environmental organisations. On that occasion, I just have to be allowed to use a short line to say that I am still surprised that SV has turned around in relation to hydropower development, cf. the proposal on magazine filling, which has only one consequence, and that is to increase the size of the ponds. But it's going to have to settle accounts for later. As regards the question of what the Government has delivered, the Government has delivered competitiveness to the Norwegian industry. That's why the industry's going down. It's delivered low interest rates and high interest rates. It has provided and received the framework conditions requested by the Norwegian industry for a long time. What have we delivered in relation to the power regime? We have provided the Stortinget with a material that is thorough, so that we can make a decision based on high-quality research – as this government has done, as the Stoltenberg government did, and as the Bondevik I government did. We have drawn the same conclusions. These are just rematches and investigations that will not lead to anything, except to create uncertainty in the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e479	I feel that the chairman of the committee is now using substituting arguments. That's why I'm going to start my line by confirming something: it's not the treatment of government-determined prices we're discussing today. It's a system that we in the Workers' Party have said it's over – just so it's clear. The government has slowed down in all industrial developments during this period, and let me mention: quota system, gas to industry in Norway, and now power to industry to ensure industrial employment. How does the head of the energy committee feel when he is one of Norway's largest brake blocks in relation to Norwegian energy and industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e486	A moving car needs brake blocks, but it needs brake blocks that are sized according to the size and weight of the car. In this context, the brake blocks are the counterpart of the Workerpartie Rolf Terje Klungland’s raw drives and unimpeded arguments for building polluting power plants. We're not in on that. We have provided too much new power, new renewable energy. Hydropower, which the Klungland Party did not initiate throughout the 1990s, has been produced. But we're doing it in harmony with a reasonable consideration of the environmental challenges. That's why it's a bit of being a brake block in and of itself an honor title. I wish Rolf Terje Klungland could be the corresponding sized brake block, but then on the right-hand side of the car.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e491	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e494	Power-processing industries in Norway employ around 22 000 people, and businesses in this industry are important cornerstones of many communities. These facts are fully agreed upon in the Committee's position. It is also agreed that it is important to facilitate the continued competitiveness of these enterprises and to maintain and further develop employment in industry and the communities affected. The main reason why these industrial enterprises have been established in Norway and are able to compete in the world market is precisely the availability of large amounts of reasonable energy. There are many conditions of competition that make Norway less competitive compared to other countries. We have a limited domestic market, it's long distances, and it's high transport costs, it's a demanding climate, and we have a high pay level. But in return, we have been favored with large hydropower resources that provide environmentally friendly and reasonable power. In a recent report, the Industry Committee states: ‘For power-intensive industry and wood processing, power costs constitute a significant part of the total cost of production.’ They also say, ‘If power prices cannot be maintained at a level where companies are still competitive globally, the basis for investment and growth in this sector of industry will be weakened’.» And on the other hand, ‘Without the possibility of ensuring power availability through long-term contracts or self-development, power-intensive industry and wood processing will be difficult to develop further in Norway.’ The centre party believes we have to do what we can to take care of this competitive advantage. The majority of the committees, as we are part of this time, still believe that it will be possible to establish a separate industrial power market. We say that the system can be implemented by allowing the power released when industrial power contracts expire, if necessary also other forces, to be incorporated into such a system. In order to meet the requirements of the EEA Agreement on equal conditions of competition, we require that there should be equal competition in order to be able to rely on this force for industrial enterprises meeting certain criteria. The centre party also supports the other important proposals. One is to facilitate longer-term power contracts. Industrial production is a long-term activity where investment has a time horizon of 20 to 40 years and where there is a need for very predictable framework conditions. We believe that such long-term power contracts should be linked to energy efficiency improvement and energy recovery requirements. Then we achieve important social goals, while at the same time meeting the need for strength. Another proposal on which there seems to be a cross-political consensus is the introduction of a system of energy options. Enterprises can achieve some reduction in the cost of power in order to commit to contributing to increased security of supply. This has to be done, for example. be better than establishing reserve capacity of electricity by purchasing highly polluting mobile gas turbines. Now most of the inhabitants of this country think it makes sense to use parts of Norwegian hydropower for domestic industrial production. In these companies, Krafta is being transformed into products that are in demand on the world market and where Norwegian industry is leading both technologically and in terms of environmental requirements. If the framework conditions in Norway become too poor, we may risk that large parts of the industry will be flagged out, to countries that either have access to cheaper power or are general low-cost countries. It seems pointless that the EEA Agreement should prevent us from using one of the main competitive advantages we have had in Norway. And it is a well-known case that the Central Party believes that we should terminate the EEA Agreement and rather conclude a trade agreement that can give us a more loose relationship with the EU. However, we recognise that the EEA Agreement is there, and then it is necessary for us from Norway to use the EEA acquis as far as we can, in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. It is our hope that with this decision today, we will be able to move forward on that road.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e530	Let me begin by correcting a manifest misunderstanding with the chairman of the committee. I have not been in favour of more gas power plants without CO2 handling than he has. Then I would like to thank the Central Party for the will and courage they show in this matter. For while High Representative Siri A. Meling earlier today asked Øyvind Waksdal of the Progress Party about what is at all the point of use when it does not mean any more force, I think that the Centre Party has a different attitude and sees the importance of preserving these communities, ensuring that this industry can continue in Norway, and ensuring that it continues to be settled in the industrial communities that it is about. So I'm going to ask what the Center Party is adding to the decisions they're now making to secure the power of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e540	In response to what Klungland said, I would say that it is our duty in the best and most possible ways to try to make the conditions good so that companies can survive. In this case, we're talking about central corner stone companies that are scattered across the country. There are 22,000 jobs directly affected, in addition, the positive effects of having these companies around them are reported to be positive. Alternative jobs will also be difficult to find, and predictability and long-term agreements are important. That's why we're involved in this, and we think it's important, as was said earlier today, to turn all the stones in order to get the best possible agreement for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e545	The representative Enger says a lot to which I can subscribe, the importance of the industry, etc. But I have two questions. She said that there must be a level playing field in Europe with regard to the potential forces. What would the representative Enger say if all the companies in France and Germany then threw themselves over this, so that the whole force disappeared? Then we were probably equidistant. The second point is that most companies have concluded long-term contracts. There are only a few very few who haven't done it, and they've been sitting on the fence waiting. Is it reasonable that whenever we do not use the possibilities when they are there, we should have a new regime to make it easier for them to get into a system as well? Is it not quite fair that it has been possible to enter into the contracts? They haven't done it, now they should do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e550	I think it is nice when the representative of Onarheim says that we agree in a number of areas. I think that's right, and I think it's actually political consensus that it's important to have industry around the whole country. That is why we are concerned that we need to look at the conditions of competition and make sure that our Norwegian companies get the best possible conditions. So for long-term contracts and predictability: I'm sure not everyone who's been equally good at this, but then I think it's our job to make sure that those who work in these companies get the best possible conditions. That is why we also need to facilitate this by reviewing the power industry regime. It's very important. We must be aware that, after all, there is a very large majority in this Chamber, plus that there are trade unions, the process industry, etc. which considers this to be important. So I think we're on the safe side here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e557	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e561	Energy consumption in Norway has increased regularly over the last 10 years, without a corresponding increase in electricity production. Many would argue that in the 1990s there was a paralysis in Norwegian policy. It did. The EEA Agreement is a disaster for Norway. The Coastal Party is opposed to the EEA Agreement and is pleased that a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Progress Party will challenge this Agreement. It's about time! Problem winter 2002–2003 was hard, both for many enterprises and not least for many older people. The economy was significantly increased in expenditure and its competitiveness deteriorated considerably. Industry was closed or adopted. Workers lost their jobs, industrialised people were threatened with depopulation. The power-processing industry in Norway employs around 22,000 people today. Enterprises in this industry are important cornerstones of many communities. The coastal party considers it important to facilitate the continued competitiveness of these companies. We will also stress that the Norwegian power-processing industry is one of the world’s leaders in productivity improvements, skills and new technologies that provide environmental improvements. The objective must be to provide a framework for enterprises to contribute to high export values, growth, innovation and industrial development in regions and communities around the country. The coastal party agrees with the majority of the committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, who will provide good and reasonable power agreements for those who need to renew their industrial energy contracts. We point out that in the period 2005 to 2007, industrial power contracts for approx. 10 TWh in power-processing industry, including the power contracts to the Mo i Rana industry that have already expired. In 2011, industrial power contracts for about 19 TWh will have expired. This may result in a significant increase in the cost to industry, resulting in a deterioration in competitiveness. The Coastal Party considers that the Government has not explored the possibilities that lie within the current international framework conditions, such as: EEA legislation, or opportunities adjacent to the scope of the EEA Agreement. The majority indicate that the Government still writes: «In the case of contracts in which undertakings receive a reduction in the price of power against accepting security of supply obligations, such a arrangement may in principle be designed in several ways.» The majority refers to the fact that, according to Article 61(1) of the EEA Agreement: 1 State aid is prohibited but with certain exceptions. Schemes which cannot be defined as unlawful State aid do not fall within the scope of the EEA Agreement. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre believe that by establishing schemes which are not unlawful State aid or using the exemptions to State aid rules, there is a large legal and political space to provide the powerful industry with contracts to maintain Norwegian industrial workplaces. Such a proposal would support the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e583	Bastesen may have misunderstood a little when he says that we challenge the EEA Agreement. We don't. One of Norway's largest founders and industrial builders, Sam Eyde, had an electoral language or slogan: «Wherever there is a will, there is a way!» Once again, we must note that we have a willless government. Once again, the Toolbox is empty. In the notes, one just looks for all the problems and finds the counter-arguments, while one refuses to see the possibilities. Most of the proposals presented today have nothing to do with the EEA Agreement and are only Norwegian legislation. Of course, I totally agree with the government party that it is important to have the general framework in order. We have to keep the economy in Norway in order. We have to make sure we have a low interest rate and a reasonable dollar rate, but in this case it's not enough. The Norwegian government must be the only government so consistently based on a business-neutral policy. All other countries are trying to provide food for themselves. Power-processing industry is one of our most important industries. He urges the fisheries sector to be the second largest industry in terms of export value. He is also one of our biggest and most important industries when it comes to districts and employment. This industry is the mainstay of many communities, and power-generating industries are very often cornerstones of their communities. This industry has been through a continuous and impressive development over the past decades, both in terms of efficiency improvement and environmental damage. It is true that today this industry is high-tech, and the Norwegian process and metallurgical industries are world-leading in their fields. If we don't manage to create good enough conditions for this industry here to land, he'll little in time weave and move out. Norway will lose a high-tech environment and important jobs, especially in the districts, and the world will have increased environmental emissions because production will be moved to countries with completely different standards and energy sources than we have here in the country. The main input factor for this industry is electricity. The price of this power will be entirely decisive for the prospects for this industry here in the country. The prices of the contracts currently in progress are internationally competitive, but the price picture in the Nordic region looks like it is easy to see that this industry will have a strong jump in its current costs. For several of the companies, there is talk of both two- and three-fold of what is the current electricity price. Surpluses will be consumed, and Norway will change from being a good location to a bad place for this type of industry. The resolution of policy-determined power prices occurs at a very unfavourable time. Despite the fact that Norway has an energy wealth that few other countries can dream about, we depend on importing electricity from abroad to cover our own consumption. Norway is in a deficit situation, pushing prices up. I see that one in the comments and in the debate today has said that now they have to jump out and get contracts, those who have not already received it. The problem is that in today's market there are no providers. It is not possible to obtain long-term contracts today at a reasonable price. The market is not working. It also looks at the last contracts entered into. They're very short and small in volume. Søral got a five-year contract. The most important single factor in securing this industry's viable conditions in this country is to obtain enough power. That means that we have to keep more people with the power we have, but we also have to build more. As it is today, only gas power can give us this effect in the short term. Energilova is 15 years old. Energy laws have worked in many areas, but they fail in my view of the most important, e.g. when it is necessary to contribute to achieving a balance of energy in Norway – a balance between supply and demand. Therefore, it is important to evaluate this law with a view to finding a tool that can bring about a reinvigoration. It is also the case that today's taxation of the power sector stimulates the use of spot rooms rather than long-term contracts. This has nothing to do with the EEA Agreement. We in Stortinget decide what to do here. Many companies are doing well today because of international conditions, but we also see that there are many who are struggling. There's a need to grab a roof. I don't want to say that in the Labour Party we have all the solutions, but we have the will, and in my view there is one way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e611	There is no new case being dealt with in Stortinget today. For the past six years, long-term conditions of industrial power have been determined by three governments, and all governments, i.e. The Bondevik I government, of which the Central Party was part, and also had the State Councils of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Government of Stoltenberg and, not least, the Government of Bondevik II, have reached the same conclusion: we cannot offer power-intensive industry new power contracts at better prices and conditions than is possible in the market. Here I also register support from the majority of the committee, and today's debate can well testify that you might realize it. In this case, then, the EEA legislation sets clear limits on the scope of the Government. The last time the Stortinget dealt with the issue of new power agreements at the end of the 1990s, there was also a political consensus that the offer of new power agreements should be a transitional arrangement and that businesses increasingly had to ensure their power needs within the ordinary market organisation framework. At the same time, the mechanism for allocating power to new projects was terminated. The government of Stoltenberg did in St.prp. No 78 for 1999-2000 no changes in the structure proposed by the Government of Bondevik I in St.prp. No 52 for 1998-99, in addition to adjusting the so-called termination condition in line with the ESA opinion. As we remember, only one of the 18 companies was offered new contracts on government terms, which at that time accepted. All the leases offered to the industry were concluded. At the same time, Norwegian Hydro, Norwegian Forest and Elkem entered into commercial contracts with Statkraft and Vattenfall. South Norway Aluminium and Fesil ASA have also concluded commercial power contracts with these suppliers in the last year. In total, Statkraft and Vattenfall have replaced a significant part of the volume of contracts with policy-specific prices that are now being phased out. In the 2005 budget, the Government has re-evaluated new contracts under government conditions for industry. In its assessment, the Government has gone through the EEA legislation carefully and, in particular, the rules on State aid and services of general economic interest are relevant. The review also this time shows that it is not possible to give industry new power contracts with conditions better than market conditions, by adopting energy efficiency or security of supply requirements. In the case of establishments, the price reductions must correspond to the real costs incurred. In addition to the provisions of the EEA Agreement, the Government stressed that long-term power contracts are not flexible and targeted. There are wide variations in power-intensive industry and woodworking industries in terms of flexibility in power consumption. If the objective is to contribute to energy efficiency or security of supply, there are measures that are more efficient and targeted than long-term power contracts. Here I will refer to the energy option scheme, which I have understood the Storting agrees with. At the discretion of the Government, a mechanism based on energy options could work better than standardised contracts. The basic idea behind energy options is that industry should provide a guaranteed dry-year guarantee through a market for energy option agreements organised by Statnet as a system operator. Any energy options may provide a profit opportunity for industry, thus contributing to a good framework for future industrial operations. Statnett has been commissioned to investigate a market for energy options, and I will carefully consider the need to go in and ensure that the Stortinget's decision is met. However, I record support from the majority of the Committee that the price of this insurance must be assessed against other dry-year insurance schemes. The recent discussion has largely concerned the establishment of a separate industrial power market for industry, although this does not contribute to more power generation in Norway. Here I would like to refer to my assessment in the revised national budget, which includes: it appears that there is doubt as to whether a system of a separate industrial power market can be established within current EEA legislation. However, as an external quality control, I have asked four independent experts to obtain an external assessment of any industrial power market by 10 June. The group shall include, inter alia: look at the EEA Agreement and practical feasibility, including impact on the Norwegian power market. I would like to stress that the general framework for competitive business is very important also for the power-intensive industry. The government’s policy has been geared towards improving the framework conditions facing Norwegian business in the last four years. A targeted economic policy has contributed to a substantial reduction in interest rates and has contributed to a more adapted krone price. Large tax reliefs, including increased depreciation rates, and increased investment in research and innovation in business are of great importance to our competitive enterprises. Furthermore, the Government has re-established the electricity tax system for industry in order to ensure continued exemption from power-intensive production. The government emphasises that positive developments continue to be supported in the form of a responsible policy that facilitates the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Norwegian economy. Finally, I would like to add that I note the proposals for decisions by the majority of the committee, and would point out that, in addition to this, I will focus on what I consider to be the most important long-term challenge in terms of industrial power supply, namely increased access to power in the Nordic power market. I am very pleased that more people from the pulpit here today have underlined that this is the real issue. In the last four years, this government has authorised 2 TWh with wind power. In fact, it is much more than what was given throughout the period from 1991 to October 2001, when the Bondevik II government took over. Furthermore, we have also allowed 2.1 TWh of hydropower in this period. This is as much as it was given throughout the period from 1991 to October 2001. Policies are about making priorities. It's about the will to do something. I can't see that there are any things in the Energy Act today that prevent Norwegian growth from deciding that more power will be produced. By making concrete decisions, we are helping to increase the production of force. For this reason, I would like to stress from the Government that the most important work in the future is to continue to focus on how to achieve more power generation in the country, more hydropower within the framework that is actually there, more wind power within the framework that is also there, more thermal energy, more energy savings and, not least, increased domestic use of gas – we have had a big debate on that in the past – not to mention that we can also increase the use of gas power in Norway. It seems that there are doubts about the three concessions, that the Government is helping to ensure that the three concessions to conventional gas power stations that have been granted are not realised. I would strongly distance myself from that. I just want to remind you that the three concessions are pending. It is an essential part of the Sem declaration. And I am very pleased with the support that is now being given in the hall, that we hope that these gas power plants will be realized. I have great faith that this is possible, and it will make a significant contribution to power generation in Norway. I have also noticed that an attempt is now being made to create the impression that this industrial power market is going to be something other than that which is at a collision price in relation to the EEA. It must mean that it must be covered by something else, because once you have a market price, which will then be below the price actually in the market today, it is contrary to the EEA. If it is the case that there are other types of conditions for this industrial power market in relation to, for example: duration, that means that it is contrary to EEA legislation. And I ask myself, what is the real purpose of such an industrial power market if it should not be an advantage to industry? Until now I have not managed to get a proper answer to that. Because, in fact, all the things that contribute to giving industry an advantage are in conflict with EEA legislation. It hasn't changed since the first government adopted this, it hasn't changed since the second government passed it, and it hasn't changed since the third government read and went through these things. Otherwise, I can rest assured that it is the same people in the Ministry of Oil and Energy who have been sitting under the previous governments, who are also sitting there now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e637	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e640	Then maybe they shouldn't sit that much longer. I think the Council of State showers with borrowed springs when she talks about the development of wind power and hydropower, just so that's said. In my post earlier today, I showed concretely two examples of securing power for the industry after the EEA Agreement was concluded. When it is as categorical as we have now heard that it is not possible to give power to industry – and we also heard from the committee's chairman today that it is not possible to give power to industry – does the Council of State consider that the agreement both to Elektem and to Hydro, which is thus politically initiated and adopted here in the Stortinget, is a breach of the EEA Agreement? If that is the case, why do you put down a sample to see if it can go within the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e647	As I said in my post, nothing has changed since the two previous governments went through these matters and have agreed to establish both the principle that the government contracts are expected to be terminated, and that they have had a timetable for when they are phased out. There is nothing new that has happened in relation to it, except that there is a new government that has come in since then. I feel fairly sure, with the information that our department has collected from various places around Europe in relation to existing schemes, that it is not possible that this could be in line with the existing legislation. I feel 100 pst. ensuring that an industrial power market is not compatible with EEA legislation. But to be 200 pst. I have certainly asked an expert group of four independent experts to investigate this and submit their report on 10 June. It will then show whether we're totally wrong, whether the last three governments have been completely on blueberry tour, or it will show that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e659	Both the Council of State and several representatives of the government parties have today pointed out the main problem, namely a lack of force. I must admit that the Council of State communicates a positive attitude towards increased power generation, not least in contrast to its predecessors. When it comes to concrete action, however, we see very little difference. And maybe in the light of the fact that the Sem statement is now out of date, I'll ask the Council of State what she will actually do to now facilitate the situation for the increase in power generation that we both know is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e664	I have to support everyone in this room who focuses on increasing power generation. In fact, I believe that it should have been a very good initiative that could come from the Energy Committee, that it gathered on a number of measures that could help to increase power generation in this country. To the proposal for a decision by the majority: one thing is at least certain, some are in doubt whether there is an investigation or an order to carry it out, that is now the one side of the case. But when that is said, we can at least see that the majority decision does not help to make it more powerful. I think it would have been incredibly important that you had now gone in to focus on it. I can reassure the representative that I have now taken an initiative to anticipate the development of consumption in relation to what goes on in the years to come by 2020-2030, so that we can have a real discussion. I intend to present a big message for the autumn, so that you can have a real debate about what is really needed in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e671	Government councils called Kårstø. There have been slightly different signals from different government councils in this government if one wanted to engage in a dialogue with Natural Forces to use CO2 management on Kårstø. I would like to hear what this council thinks about it, whether it means the same as the Christian People's Party, or whether it means what the Right has said before. As I mentioned in my post: Knut Almestad, former president of ESA, said that a used EEA agreement to push things ahead of itself, in a way to avoid saying it outright. So I have to ask the Council of State: if the Council of State decided, would it create an industrial power regime that would give our industry the power it needs for a reasonable amount of money? Would she care to put away the market-liberalistic ideas that Right stands for, in relation to relapses, etc. and privatisation of Norwegian nature – if it had to choose for itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e681	I believe that we have a very good, well-functioning power market in Norway and in the Nordic countries today. Yes, in fact, it is so good that we see that the system that we have managed to develop in the Nordic region today is the EU looking for the introduction, with the tariff system and the whole thing. It is so interesting that this is what the EU sees as the possible way to go in the years to come. This is not the case, as was said earlier today by the pulpit, that it is not possible to enter into commercial power contracts. That doesn't lead to correctness. We can go to Elkem, we can go to Norsk Hydro, and we can go to other companies. In fact, long-term power contracts have been concluded 15 years in advance during 2005. So I have to strongly reject that it's a market that doesn't work today. When 18 companies were offered an arrangement with government contracts, only one company accepted the agreement. The others saw that there were opportunities to satisfy this on a commercial basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e687	If I understood the Council of State correctly, she said instead that there was a hundred percent impossible with industrial power agreements in relation to the EEA Agreement. I have actually heard that Spain has fixed this – it gets to hang a little in the air. So to what I'm going to ask. Widvey stated to Europower on 15 May this year that the most important measure for the powerful industry is good framework conditions through low interest rates and competitive crown prices. She will also provide for increased power generation. But then she goes on to say, ‘In this context, the question of a separate industrial power market is derailment’. It is in stark contrast to that, for example. The recent Industry Committee has stated: ‘If power prices cannot be maintained at a level where companies are still competitive globally, the basis for investment and growth in this sector of industry will be weakened’.» My question will then be: does not the Minister for Oil and Industry think that the price of power is also an important framework condition for industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e706	More power can also help reduce prices of power in Norway, both to industry and to consumers in general. I think that's a very important thing to bring with it. It may seem that one has the possibility to be able to contribute to the creation of such a market by the industry, which would result in lower prices, but it would actually be EEA-unlike. I have also received confirmation from those who have submitted the proposal for such an investigation, that it should not be contrary to EEA law, that it should not be priced under market conditions, and that it should probably not be given other types of conditions that could be contrary to the EEA Agreement. Then there must be reason to ask: what is the purpose of this market? What is it then that one should achieve with such a market that one cannot get in the market that works today? Is it true that the Labour Party and the majority believe that the market you have today should be abolished, that we should split the market we have in the Nordic countries today, to try out such a concept?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e713	I find it very interesting to hear – and indeed to read in the setting – that one of the main instruments for the power industry by the Government is low interest rates. As I see it, it's actually the only tool the sitting government has. They claim that it is the most stable tool this industry can have. I learned something the years I was in the finance committee, and it was: 1st@item: inlistbox Low interest rates do not last forever.2. Low interest rates are largely due to fluctuations in the economic cycle outside our rule – not in the rule of the Government. Does the Council of State feel secure and comfortable that Norwegian industrial workplaces must cope with the uncertainty caused by low interest rates due to international economic cycles and to a small extent with what the Government is doing? Is this the stable framework conditions that the power industry has obtained from this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e729	In fact, a good framework for economic policy is the very foundation of a good part of the enterprises we have in Norway today. What can be the effect of interest on, inter alia: companies, is something that the Workers' Party should also notice. Because we have had a situation where economic policy has led to an increase in interest rates, and we all know what consequences it can have for businesses and not least for consumers. But that's not just what's very important. I have tried several times from the pulpit to stress that what is involved in solving the future need for the powerful industry in Norway is producing more power. I have understood that it is a broad majority in the United Kingdom who agree on this, and also on the areas in which we should focus. It helps to increase the power of the various enterprises and also helps to reduce prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e736	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e739	There is no doubt that it is the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party so far that has been the driving force for the powerful industry and to get a new power regime on the legs. After these contracts expire, it is particularly important to look at the possibilities for a new industrial power regime. This is an incredibly important matter for so many communities, but also an important matter for the nation of Norway. I think this matter has received far too little attention from the media in Akersgata – understand the one who can. There are many communities that experience considerable uncertainty as policy-defined power contracts expire. Thousands of jobs are threatened by high power costs. The most important decision is to establish a new industrial power market for long-term contracts. The majority of the population ask the Government to investigate and present a separate case to the Stortinget to establish its own industrial power market. Such a market must ensure, by means of objective criteria, equal competition in respect of the power invested in a market through auction. Despite several orders from Stortinget, the Government has not failed and has been able to explore the possibilities under the EEA Agreement to design a new industrial power regime. That's why Stortinget has now taken control of a literally powerless government. It is both powerless and decommissioned and completely free of tools. Is it such a government that industrial workers and industry want? Today, the power-processing industry in Norway employs approx. 22 000 people. These enterprises are cornerstones of many communities and are leading international in terms of modern technology, productivity and high environmental standards. Therefore, it is important for Norway to further develop this industry. As I have said before, the government parties do not want a separate industrial power market to be established. They do not believe that this is possible by virtue of the provisions of the EEA Agreement, while we, which constitute the bulk of the population, believe that it is both desirable and possible. The first, whether desirable or not, is about energy policy and district policy. The second, whether it is possible or not, is about the interpretation of the EEA Agreement and about exploiting the possibilities it offers. We record that in order to stagnate the bulk of the population a little bit, the oil and energy minister has picked out four experts who have been commissioned to review the various aspects of a separate industrial power market. I believe, regardless of what the four experts might come to, that it should be possible to establish a separate industrial power market within the EEA rules. In a preliminary investigation, which is completed in these days around the local and regional importance of power-intensive industries, preliminary calculations from North NIBR show that, for example: a job in industry, including: My home town, Mo i Rana, further leads to 1,5-2 jobs in Rana and Hemnes municipalities. The municipality of Hemnes is the neighbouring municipality of Rana. This is a lot, and it is in stark contrast to the estimate in the revised state budget, where 0.7 is employed indirectly. Based on the accounts of the Mo i Rana companies with government contracts, preliminary estimates also show that these companies carry out annual local purchases of 700 million. NOK 1 billion in the municipalities of Rana and Hemnes. These are very high numbers, which underpin the importance and seriousness of, among other things. these regions on the environment and competitiveness of this industry are being weakened. Equivalent and competitive framework conditions are important to realise the industrial development potential existing in these areas. We see the possibilities, the government sees constraints. It's about our future. Can a good part of the industrial leaders and the NHO continue to support under the Right and/or Government Parties? This must be an industrial suicide.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e754	Norway has a large power-processing industry that generates annual large export revenues for the Norwegian community. It is therefore gratifying that the Stortinget is discussing this industry today and that there is a cross-political agreement to give this industry the best possible framework conditions. Thanks to low interest rates, strong export markets and a responsible economic policy, the industry in Norway today has good times, and industrial production is increasing. That is why we must ensure the continuation of economic policy in the future. Power-processing industries are major consumers of energy, and the costs associated with energy represent a significant share of the total cost. The power-processing industry in Norway has traditionally had its competitive advantage in accessing energy at relatively low prices, and it is this advantage that has been the basis for the development of this strong food cluster here in the country. The power price is important and it is understandable that the loss of the government-determined industrial power contracts is perceived as a relatively dramatic change and a demanding challenge for each enterprise as these contracts are phased out. At the same time, it must be mentioned that the certainty of this relationship has been known over a long period of time, and that no less than three governments have addressed this issue – all with the same conclusion that it is not possible to continue this type of contract that gives prices below market prices. The price of power is closely related to the quantity of power in the market. We know that Norway today in a year of normal rainfall is not self-sufficient. The most important means of ensuring that industry has good access to power at competitive prices is to ensure increased power generation. Gas power, hydropower, wind power, thermal energy, energy efficiency improvement and increased domestic gas use are important. The right hand and the government have held a rough price to increase power supply in the market, and this work will continue to ensure both industry and households secure access to power at acceptable prices. With regard to the proposal to establish a separate industrial power market, I have the following comments: Firstly, a separate industrial power market does nothing about the main problem; a separate industrial power market does not provide the market with more energy. We're just moving the quantity. It's not increasing. Then it's a false fact that the last three governments have come to the same conclusion that it's not possible to give industry new power contracts with conditions under market conditions. The Labour Party and others claim that a separate industrial power market should not contain subsidies. However, if power prices in such a market will not be below market prices, there is no reason to split up the current market either. In any case, companies can obtain contracts on the ordinary market for long-term contracts, which several companies have already concluded. Many companies have already concluded new contracts on commercial terms and it would be a bad signal to them to offer particularly favourable contracts to those companies that have not yet obtained new contracts on regular terms, despite the fact that it has been known for a long time that government contracts will not be continued. Companies such as Elkem, Norsk Hydro and Norske Skog have already concluded large, long-term commercial contracts for the supply of power several years ago. Fesil and Statkraft recently entered into a long-term agreement, and so did Søral with Vattenfall. Predictability and long-termity are important for the power-generating industry. The debate about replacing the government contracts with a regime that preserves competitive advantage at power prices, I think in many ways is a game for the gallery. Making industry live on an illusion that it is possible to gain power below the market level is doing industry a bear service. The idea that the industry will be given more reasonable power by political decisions, so that it does not have to be active and do its best to achieve the most favourable contracts in markets, is to jeopardize jobs. There should be no doubt that the Right wants to strengthen and further develop the Norwegian industry, as well as the important power-generating industry. But in our opinion, this must be done in a way that is sustainable in relation to our international obligations and the EEA Agreement. We will follow the framework conditions developed within the EU for this industry, and our aim is to have competitive conditions for our power-generating industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e782	Today's adoption of a decision to safeguard industry's long-term power contracts is not just an important measure to ensure employment and the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. It is also an important environmental policy measure, and it is precisely what makes this decision so exciting and unique. While measures to preserve and improve the industry are often linked to large factory pipes that spew out black smoke and pollution, we can now reconcile jobs in industry and good environmental policy measures. There are several reasons why we are getting an environmental victory today. Firstly, Norwegian industry today has high environmental requirements and is very environmentally friendly, seen on a global scale. It is therefore important to prevent the deflagration of this industry to countries with lower environmental requirements. This is precisely why, for example: Nature and Youth are followers of a regime that ensures the Norwegian power-intensive industry. We in SV believe that we still have a long way to go in relation to making offensive environmental demands to industry, because we are convinced that it works. We are convinced that by making demands we will have a technology development and a more environmentally friendly industry. The SV’s objective is for Norway to be the world leader in connecting economic development to environmental requirements. We're going to produce environmentally friendly steel, based on the recycling of steel, based on the recycling of energy, i.e. we're going to use it several times, based on tough environmental requirements, but also based on the reward of good environmental measures and an active state policy to help Norway advance as an environmental nation. Since the end of the last century, the Socialist Left has been working for an industrial power regime with long-term power contracts combined with investment in new technology, more efficient energy use and high environmental requirements. Indeed, industry itself underlines the need for long-term power contracts that keep targets internationally, and a separate industrial power market is an important part of this work. Enova and the Land Association of Process Industries have jointly identified 130 measures to technically reduce energy use in industry by 5.3 TWh, which means that we are talking about at the bottom of two Kårstø gas plants. The fact that we are now proposing to link this regime to energy efficiency improvement requirements, to energy recovery requirements, makes it possible to realise as much of this potential as possible. Then I would like to remind you that there is a broad majority in the Great Britain behind Norway's accession to the Kyoto Agreement. Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol states that the use of Kyoto mechanisms should complement domestic greenhouse gas emission reductions. Norway is well above the level of emissions we were at when we entered into the agreement. This means that over the period 2008-2012 we must have greenhouse gas emissions below what they are doing today, not higher. It is precisely in this connection that I notice that there are some parties who believe in the construction of highly polluting gas power plants as a solution to industrial power problems. To this I would say: if you build gas power plants that want to emit as much CO2 as half a million cars, others in Norway need to reduce their emissions. This may, for example: will be the Norwegian industry. A well-functioning industrial power regime and long-term power contracts are therefore a better measure for Norwegian industry than the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. Security of supply is a national responsibility. We have experienced high electricity prices in the past, we were up to 80 o'clock/kWh in 2002 and in 2003 in the spot market. Then we were in a situation where we almost had to go in and rationalize the current. SV believes that industry can play an important role in security of supply. In addition to employing 22,000 workers, the country’s main guarantor is the powerful industry that the electricity grid does not break down, because when there is a shortage of electricity in the Norwegian power grid, it has to be traded quickly. And then it's actually much easier to turn down an oven than it is to turn down a thousand hot water generators in the Norwegian community. There are probably a lot of people who remember Ansgar Gabrielsen's statement that the toolbox is empty, and it's probably not the last time this room is remembered about it. Just in the light of this, I am surprised that the government is not using the opportunity it has to go into the constructive proposals of the red-green option. Instead, nutrition neutrality shall prevail. The free market must be followed as if it were governed by the Constitution, and any Brussels decree must be followed seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e804	From today until 2007, industrial power contracts in the power-intensive industry will expire at around EUR 15 billion. 10 TWh. If we go a little further, until 2011, industrial power contracts of 19 TWh will have expired. When we have such scenarios in front of us, we see that this will be a lot for this industry. It will weaken the competitiveness and planning of the launch of new plants. It is with great amazement that when I hear the debate today, I experience a great aggression from the government parties that the majority of the population is now promoting seven proposals, so that we will be on the track in good time before this scenario we see ahead of us. We need to be on the road in good time to save and maintain a good number of industrial communities and to further develop and maintain a good number of jobs in the districts. The majority of the population ask for today is that the government should simply investigate an industrial power regime. We can't really free ourselves from the fact that there are feelings in this case. Because it is precisely around these businesses that industry-Norway is built up over many decades and has really got its place in the social society: a society with social development and in which it is good to live. There are feelings in these matters, so in many ways you ask, is it just the market forces that are going to be raw at any cost? Should we stand on this pulpit and always just stress that you don't get a contract without it being market-based? Local communities and workplaces will rather sail their own seas, for this contract will be just like that in Paris, in Lisbon and in Rome! I think the majority in Norway says: we want us to take a new initiative, because we also need to have certain benefits of having a power resource in Norway, on which we are going to develop in Norway and build on it. Then I think it is amazing that the government went completely into the trenches and said that they had done enough of this. That's all there is to it. Now the EEA and Brussels get to grips with the rest! I am also a yes-man, and I have fully supported the EEA Agreement. But we can't just run a business-neutral policy and say, here's nothing we can do. It's just closing the box and going. We have to see if there's any way to save this and facilitate the conditions for framework conditions. That's what the big crowd is asking for. When the government says they have such good cards on their hands that it's no use doing this job, they get to the Stortinget with all these good cards. Then we might have to take note of it, or we'll have to come forward with new proposals. That's how serious I am about the situation. This I also think the government should take inwards. I come from an industrial group from which the Minister of Energy also comes. The county has several large holdings, including: The era in Sauda, where half of the contracts expire in 2010. French management and owners have clearly been told that they will bet on Norway. They will bet on Sauda, if they see that there are opportunities for long-termity in terms of the power contracts, and at a proper and good price. The Workers' Party will not pursue a business-neutral policy at all costs. Finally, I would like to say that what is overwhelming here is the major challenges we have in having sufficient power production in Norway, so that we can balance the markets and get things right. I realize that it is the gas power plants that need to be in place, in addition to the hydropower-based production we have. In terms of bioenergy and other forms of energy, I don't think the latter will be the rescue in the foreseeable future, but it should be a good supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e823	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e826	This has been a bit of a strange debate in many ways. We have heard expressions such as ‘wild government’, ‘regime dragging legs’, ‘industrial policy with tennis socks’. It's just that this is in sharp contrast to reality. In Bergen’s Official Journal today, it is a main look at the entire front page that Norway is masterfully governed. This is just one of a series of suggestions on how this government's policy has worked in recent years. The truth is, business is going down. Industrial production is increasing sharply. Never has the increase in employment been greater. There have never been any more enterprises. It's optimism like never before. Maybe it's just to try to dampen this impression that the Workers' Party spokesmen both raise their voices and use unsubstantiated expressions? But they won't succeed. People see this for themselves. Then it's Hallgeir H. Langeland, who's talking about a "industrially hostile government" that needs to be replaced. When Langeland talks about industrial policy, there is reason to listen and to take care of it. He has opposed most of what makes business competitive in their long-term markets. What we are experiencing here today is a fundamental difference in attitudes towards business. We experience a left side, which unfortunately the Progress Party supports here in the hall, with clockwork in the state and regulations to save Norwegian business. On the other hand, we experience reality just outside the windows here and in the media every day, a success story for Norwegian business that we have rarely experienced in later, modern times. That should be the best witness to the situation this government has created in the last four years. Let me ask you a few questions in the end. If it is as the representative of Klungland claims that what the Workers' Party is proposing will not give industry power below market prices, what is the purpose of their proposals? In that case, the industry can acquire the power it needs in the ordinary market. There is no need for the special arrangements proposed by the Workers' Party. Or: If the representative of Klungland believes that the industrial power market proposed by the Workers' Party does not involve subsidies, but nevertheless lower prices in force, how does he define subsidies?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e840	In this case, SV has kept the promise. We've done what we could to find solutions, and I'm very happy that today we're part of a multiple that does what it can to find solutions. In the last year, there has been a great debate, a great debate, a great commitment, about the issue of long-term power contracts and a long-term power solution for industry. It has our conferences in Rana, in Glomfjord and back to Rana again. Both the NHO and the National Committee – all of them – have engaged and put the politicians to the wall, and one by one we have set up, including representatives from the government party, and said: we should be with and turn all the stones, we should be with and find solutions. But no. The state budget came last year. Job not done. The revised one came a few weeks ago with the clear message: it is hardly possible, and in any case it is not desirable, to find a long-term solution for the Norwegian industry. Today's setting shows with all the desired clarity where your will is actually. We don't think it's going to be easy, but finding a long-term solution for the industry doesn't at least get any easier because it's constantly being countered by government representatives who say they're willing to find solutions, but who don't make sure the job is done. One push ESA ahead of itself, or, as the representative Brother Yngve Rahm said so clearly, in this case we are following the EU. If the EU does something, we should also do something. A reduction in an export selection where one also has experts who have concluded in advance that the industry is Norway's largest power reserve, that if industry's power prices are exposed to a free market, likely large parts of industry will be phased out, and then the power demand declines and the problem is resolved. So these are the government's solutions. And one can see it as clearly as one wishes in the configuration of the committee, where members of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party say that a long-term solution for industry is the inefficient use of our economic resources. Why has one not told the industry before, instead of saying that one should join and turn all the stones? I'm very happy that SV has kept the promise, and that we're part of a plural that wants to find solutions, because this is an important matter for a terrible number of communities based on industry. I get provoked when I hear in the hall today that this is only an election fight from the parties that are behind the plurality. This is not a selection fight. This is a matter we've been working on for a long time, this is a matter where we've been willing to find solutions, and I think it's special that the government party instead of being part of this plurality to deal with environmental movements, trades, industry and the many communities for which this is important. It is a good expression of the political will of the government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e855	Like the previous speaker, I have also noticed that the government party calls this case an electoral campaign. At least I can promise the hall that in Sogn and Fjordane this is not an electoral campaign, it is serious – even after 12 September this autumn. Despite very good results for many years at the work in Årdal and Høyanger, Hydro has decided that they do not want to modernise the Søderberg metropolitan area, and we get a closure from the turn of the year 2006/2007. What they have plans to do, however, is spend 10 billion dollars in Qatar to build a large aluminium mill. There is every reason to believe – and they say it themselves – that power prices are part of it, despite the fact that there is increasing efficiency in Norwegian works, and despite the fact that they have very good results. Last year, Årdal alone had a result of over 420 million. kr – and therefore the Government cannot take credit for it. It's better aluminium prices, it's higher productivity, and it's less added. I think the company itself, and they're going to get credit for it. The heights are the same: heights with their small work had an excess of 100 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. They have also just been able to the best noise scene among Hydro's works. Nevertheless, it is not going to be a modernisation. One of the Romanesque decisions to vote on today is VIII, which goes directly to the work in Høyanger. Hoeanger is exposed to something rather special associated with the application of the network tariff. We decided about a year ago, in the revised days, to ask the government to look at and do something to make the Highlands escape that situation. We have received a response from the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which tells us that this company is responsible for 15 million. kr in additional costs, because they are connected to the distribution system and not to the central network. The government announced in the government budget that they would consider doing something about it. But it's too late, and it's too small to be able to evaluate it. So here's a chance to do something about it, completely without the EEA caring. Then the plural says today that it's actually going to be the government. And I don't understand at all, no matter what one in the whole debate might be in agreement or in disagreement about, what kind of handshakes it is from the Government to the Höjang community, to the Sogn and the Fjords, to vote against VIII. I would like to ask the government to think again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e867	Olav Akselsen made a clarifying statement. He said that the businesses we're talking about are corner stone companies. Yes, I agree. They are world leaders in both the environment and productivity. Yes, I agree. Moving is not desirable. No, it's not desirable. But then he brought something in the middle of the post: the price is decisive. Yes, I can understand that. There will be strong jumps in prices when going from government contracts to the market. Yeah, that's right. It's an unfavorable time, so we have to offer at a reasonable price. It makes me think about what the representative Klungland said. He said there was not going to be any special things, it was going to be at market price, but within an industrial power system. What does that lead to? I can't see it. – But then the Akssen took it well, fortunately. He said that the most important thing is to get enough power. So we have to make sure that we get more balance in the power market, and that in turn could lead to better prices. So it became a contrast to what we had heard before. The representative of SV says: today we are making a decision that ensures the companies enough power at good prices. Yes, then it wouldn't have been necessary to make an investigation, if you knew. So you don't know that. That's the whole problem, I think, now we give the impression, in some posts, that we've secured reasonable prices to the industry, and that they're waiting anxiously for the offers. The question is when and how they come. I'm afraid it'll take time. Tore Nordtun also stated that we must have more reasonable prices. I understand the SV and the Center Party, which says they don't like the EEA. That's another bowl. The position of the Labour Party is that we have the EEA, and that is what we have to do. They'd rather have membership, right, but we're going to keep the EEA. Then it is not possible to bring down prices, it is not possible to subsidize this power to industry in the foreseeable future, as long as we are part of this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e876	This case concerns 22 000 jobs in a number of Norwegian enterprises and communities, from the List in the south to the Finns in the north. I want to focus my article on the northernmost of the companies, Finnfjord Melting Station in Troms. Finnfjord has been producing ferrosilisium since the 1960s, and now has well over 100 jobs, directly. Indirectly, the importance is even greater for the municipality of Lenvik. This is a corner stone business. That is why the matter we are dealing with today is of great importance to Finnsnes, to Lenvik and to Troms. It's about jobs, about maintaining a variety of workplaces and nutrients in Troms, about processing power locally instead of sending it out of the region. Finnfjord Smelteverk has government power contracts that expire in 2010. The problem is therefore not acute. But five years is short. We get sky-high power prices in a market where prices rise and fluctuate from day to day, in line with the energy exchange. Enterprises have investment plans – investments have a long-term 20 years and are therefore not put into practice, with the threat of sky-high power prices and a market that does not offer long-term contracts for industrial production. The government believes that the market should solve the problems while shifting responsibility to ESA in Brussels. This passivity from the right-hand side can have dramatic consequences. This could mean deflagration, which could mean that the industry is moving to countries with weak environmental requirements. Therefore, a new industrial power regime is important for industrial development in districts. It is therefore necessary to require the Government to re-establish a power industry market. For this reason, it is important to have long-term power contracts for industry that maintain targets internationally, against authorities simultaneously imposing environmental and energy requirements on Norwegian industry. The inaction of the government may mean that Finns are at risk of losing hundreds of jobs, directly and indirectly. This case is probably an example of the empty toolbox of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It is the government that must lose the job, not the industrial workers in Finland and elsewhere in the country. They certainly have both knowledge and tools to build the future industry. Finnfjord Melting Plant has a surplus of waste energy, heat from smoke and cooling water, all of which is more than 500 GWh, or more than two-thirds Alta power plant. There is energy that can be used, that can provide energy savings for society. It is a good environmental policy, and it can in turn create new jobs. But then the policy must take over when the market fails. That is why the red-green industrial power agreement is important. The decision on a new industrial power regime shows an offensive willingness to further develop Norwegian industrial workplaces, something that is completely lacking in the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e889	There are some questions that I would like to add some comments to. First, there was a question about this with Årdal and Sauda, about how in all the kingdoms of the world it was possible to conclude some new power contracts there – why it was not in conflict with the EEA. Firstly, on the issue of Årdal, there was no new policy being put in place, but it was a right Norwegian Hydro already had. Norsk Hydro used his right to negotiate the preempted fall-back for the power plants at Tyin, Fortune, Moflöt and Mæl. They bought these power plants from the state. They got their own power plants longer and extended production in Tyin, and therefore secured the Årdal plant. There was no new policy, but it was a straight Hydro already had. There was a question asked by the representative, Mr. Enger, about this with Spain. It is one of the questions that we have also sent to Stortinget, but I would like to repeat it here. I am aware that Spain introduced a transitional regime in the liberalisation of the electricity market in 1997. An early version of this scheme dates back to the 1980s. As far as the Ministry is aware of this scheme, it requires, among other things, a price adjustment for all consumers. It is also part of this Spanish history that the scheme is a transitional system that lasts until 2007. It's not a permanent arrangement. In addition, I have to add: in the case of this scheme in Spain, it is not according to what the department knows about state resources, but they have opted for a system that makes the power-intensive industry less powerful. And who's paying for it? Yeah, it's consumers. I assume that the majority in this Chamber, who today want an industrial power market – as an example of that it is not in conflict with the EEA – has not intended to give the powerful industry 10 cents in minus, to say the least, giving it cheaper power, which is therefore payable by consumers or other parts of industry. Of course, this will not be contrary to EEA legislation, but I can hardly imagine that there are people who believe that this is the kind of policy that they intend to put in place. Then I want to make some comments on the proposals that lie here, because it sounds like it's revolutionary that you're helping to create more power. I would like to ask questions about, among other things. This with one-year magazines versus multi-year magazines. There are only two solutions to go from one-year magazines to multi-year magazines. Either you have to impose a reduction in production, or you have to expand the magazines. This means that you have to build more concrete on the magazines that already exist. There are no other solutions than that. In the case of interest-rate taxation, several investigations have been carried out. It was last examined during the examination of the 2004 budget. There are already exceptions in the case of long-term contracts beyond seven years and also with a certain volume of contracts. There are actually arrangements under the basic interest rate tax that you can apply, if you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e902	Then the next speaker is Brother Yngve Rahm and then Tor-Arne Stroem. Tor-Arne Stroem is currently the last recorded speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e905	I'm not so sure he'll be the last. But some final comments from my side, at least. There has been a strange debate in many ways. Olav Akselsen said, "Where there is a will, there is a way!" Then I asked, "Why didn't Olav Akselsen go that way when he was the councillor?" He stated that this is not an EEA matter. Why did he then just justify his assessments in the EEA Agreement when he himself was the Council of State? It was said that we had transformed this into an electoral campaign, or that we accused the opposition of running an electoral campaign. I believe it was Leknes who said that this was a campaign, that the opposition would use this in the election campaign. I guess we've seen indications that that's exactly what happened. I think that very many of the opposition's arguments today bear the command that you go the same way as the lady who was going to the city, but who never really got out of the courtyard, because she had to run back several times to check if the plate on the stove had been turned off. That's exactly what's going on right now. Instead of daring to stand upright in the meeting with the industry, one chooses to push this matter ahead in some sort of investigation for the fourth time. On the part of the government parties, we have confidence that the investigations submitted by a government are a sufficient basis for decision-making by the Stortinget. We had exactly the same confidence in Olav Akselsen when he was the Council of State and found the same reasons as our own Council of State does today. We had confidence that a thorough work had been done in the department and from the Council of State. But it is strange to record in what way the Workers' Party in this debate is filling its own council of state at that time, for that is the reality of attacking the Government of Willlessness and the lack of use of tools. It's exactly the same will and the exact same tool we use as the then state council used. Finally, let me again be allowed to say that I register with interest that SV does some grip in their proposals in relation to magazine filling – we have been involved several times before – which is quite alarming. There are only two exits on such a proposal. One is that you take less water from the magazines -- there's no more flow of it, it's what's meant by much of the debate we have today -- or you fill more water in the magazines. So that means that SV has to fill up the magazines and expand the magazines, with the kind of natural interference that it's causing. There is reason to ask the question: does Nature and Youth know about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e920	It is possible that this has been a nice debate. I think it is quite unique when Brother Yngve Rahm shifts responsibility to the former government and will not accept the responsibility of the government. I thought the government was conscious of its responsibility. So you can have different opinions about how to go up the road. I think the government parties and the government show an incredibly arrogant attitude towards the big crowd. The government parties have received a marshalling earth before. It's possible that they have to have another new marshall that's even stronger. I think arrogance has also been shown in the process industry and in the people living in the districts. Are you aware that today there are many enterprises – including by reference to my own municipality of origin, Rana, where perhaps both one and two are directly employed in these companies – that depend on this process industry? I'll go back a little bit in time. On 9 June 1988, a decision on the conversion of the entire Rana industry was taken in Stortinget. But then the workers' party government had the Finn Kristensen tools. They were put in the toolbox, and then you used these tools, and then that industry went great. I have to say I'm a little abandoned over this debate. I have to ask: if you get so far that you go to the closure of that industry – remember, there are foreign owners here – what are these people in District Norway going to do? I hope that the government parties and the state council, if any, could give an answer to this evening. It's not just looking out of the window and pointing at Karl Johan and saying, "What are you going to do?" It means moving away from the districts, and it's district policy at its best from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e931	It was interesting to have my post analyzed by the representative of Onarheim. If I understood Onarheim correctly, we were mostly up to action, but then Onarheim will jump off. He doesn't want any action except for this to be left to the market. But I think if you look at a political issue, it's our job as politicians to try to find solutions to that problem. That's where I feel the main difference between the two options is today – some of them are in a reality description, but then they retreat and say they can't do anything about this, while others try to have an active hold and say that not all doors are locked here, they'll rush a little bit more into these doors and see if there's a possibility behind them. That's the main difference between the two options here today. Now I'm a member of another committee. In that committee we had a parallel situation last year. We then dealt with shipping, and one of the measures we in the Labour Party were that one should have good financing arrangements for those who build ships, so that one can choose to build at Norwegian shipyards instead of at other yards. Then it was exactly the same hold from the government party: they wouldn't be on this. Luckily, the government party turned around. It's very easy to turn when a multiple on Stortinget has already agreed to have the same arrangements as for example. in Finland. But it's the same hold that permeates everything: this leaves us only to the market. Then it was shown to me in the Oil and Energy Department. What I did at that time was just an adjustment of a decision to raise. It was not to cancel contracts, but it was to extend and create a new system. That's what I was doing, adjusting. If this case shows something, she shows that it was still possible to have contracts within the EEA system. Unfortunately, very few people accepted these contracts, but one cannot use them as an example that all doors were locked. The most important thing, in my view, is to achieve an energy balance again in Norway. I know that we've made more decisions to grant concessions. These concessions have not been used. Then I think it's our job as politicians -- we're busy finding the energy balance -- to ask the question: how can we stimulate this? I think there must be something in the Energy Act that can contribute more than today to building up new power. When I was in government, it actually found a market, it was balance, and there were some who wanted to sell power. Today it is not, and then I think we have to adjust the policy and make sure that the market comes back to balance, so that businesses also have the opportunity to move forward in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e944	A number in the Committee have put forward a proposal to deal with this with one-year magazine and multi-year magazine. I note that the Christian People's Party and the Right have already completed the distribution here today and conclude with the various alternatives that are leading. SV has requested a statement, and we expect it to be made. The majority would like to make such a statement, and then we'll have to make the conclusions when that statement is submitted to the Stortinget, which the Government is now required to make. Very many – the Christian People's Party, the Right and others – fear that this will be an electoral campaign. Of course you're afraid of it. One therefore fails important local communities, important industrial workplaces. That's what the government is adding today. Some people do this knowingly and willfully. It's not surprising to me that Right wants more market liberalism, that Right wants more market, or that they don't care about industry, power supply and price. They're not interested in it. They are interested in pushing ahead with the EEA Agreement and say that the market is now under way, and there should be no governance here. That's a good right-wing policy. The fact that the Christian People's Party is in that case is their problem – when they are in government with the Right. But that they blame the problem so badly by defending this system that is actually pure right-wing policy, wonders SV. It's amazing that the Christian People's Party has landed at that level. So to the representative Halleraker and SV's industrial policy: in my post I tried, among other things. to illustrate how many important things, through environmental requirements, SV has created and contributed to in the industry – in the oil industry, in the process industry and in other areas – precisely by setting certain conditions, which do not necessarily set the right-hand side. In addition, the Right also knows that SV has an offensive industrial policy – we have an offensive industrial policy, and we have a district policy that Right no longer has. I think that Halleraker can join us if he wants to follow along in the next hour, the next time Langeland or others from SV have an article about industrial policy in the future – not in the past – where one does not give up the governance instruments like the market liberals in Right today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e955	At the end of the debate, I want to clarify a few important things. The first is that the government parties have turned around in this case. So the government parties took part in a request decision to the Government. The government said it would not follow up, so the government parties were part of the Stortingen to lift the matter out. The representative Onarheim even said during the budget debate that it is now on the shoulders of the Workers' Party to find solutions for industry. And then when we come back with solutions, then the government parties turn around. I don't really think that the wish of Onarheim is to make sure that the Right will vote against this case, but I think there may have to be some solid pedagogic challenges in relation to the Right Members when it's like Siri A. Meling here asks the representative Waksdal what's at all the point about this matter, when it doesn't involve any more force. No, today we're not actually discussing power anymore. We are discussing securing Norwegian jobs. We are discussing securing hundreds of billions in value creation in the years to come, and we are talking about being with and securing important communities in Norway. So the representative onarheim says this only applies to a few companies. I want to say that if it had been for a few jobs, then it is very important for those people who are thrown out into unemployment that politicians are on their side and are party players to secure their jobs. So the Council of State says it's important to build up more power. I fully agree with that. But then I don't really understand why the government parties are going to vote against evaluating the Energy Act with the aim of ensuring more power available. I just think of it as a wretched thing. So I think the red-green option will succeed. I look forward to our success. We have taken over a bankruptcy dwelling from the so-called successful right-hand policy in the past. What we had to deal with then was Norway's history of unemployment. That was the consequence. It was the workers who had to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e970	It was the representative Aksensen who helped me to take the floor. It could seem as if there were other reasons than it really was, which contributed to the then State Council's proposal to change the arrangement in relation to St. pp. No 78 for 1999-2000. The Authority’s offers under this write-off were complained to the EFTA Surveillance Authority by, inter alia, the EFTA Surveillance Authority. Bellona. Bellona then claimed that the price conditions of these contracts were lower than those of long-term market contracts, thus contrary to the EEA State aid provision. The ESA concluded that the termination of the existing agreements could result in new agreements containing State aid. That is why the government proposed to change the arrangement. So existing agreements were to run unchanged until the normal expiry date. The contracts offered were to enter into force only after the contracts in question had expired. Apart from this, no changes were actually proposed. It is quite clear that if the Stoltenberg government, and then the Minister of Oil and Energy, Aksen, thought that there was a room for opportunity to make changes that were an improvement for the industry, the conditions would have been good enough to do so at the time. It can also be said that there is something wrong with the Energy Act, and that it is the Energy Act that prevents the creation of more power in Norway today. I have asked several times, but I have not received one single example that the Energy Act prevents the creation of more power generation – not one example. It is also such that an earlier decision in Stortinget, a request decision, asks the Government to go through the Energy Act. The government has done that. It is well described in the revised national budget. It has been reviewed and looked at various measures that were specified at the time that they wanted to have an assessment of. The government has done that. We have found that this is not the measure that is needed to produce more force. I would like to challenge the majority to know what you see with the Energy Act today that prevents you from being able to create more power. It should at least benefit the Government, which is now going to take this action, go through it and assess it and look at how to do these things. It might have been interesting to know. I think what we have to agree on is that we have to facilitate conditions to create more power. Nor can I see that the majority should represent an agreement on how this force is to be created. SV is against gas power plants. SV is to protect as much as possible. We have just adopted an overall plan. They're for us to go in the direction that there's going to be less hydropower expansion. I have tried to challenge them in relation to this with one-year magazines versus multi-year magazines, but I record that SV is not interested in responding to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e981	The representative Aksensen made a visit to the site of Onarheim instead. I have to say that it falls on its own unreasonableness when an industrialist like Onarheim is accused of not being able to act in industrial policy. Now let it lie like a depression. What made me take the floor was the representative, Stroem, who said that the government and government parties were arrogance. No, this isn't arrogance. If it feels like that, we have to apologize. It's not at all. It's realism. That's what's bad and hard to deal with. I think it's also right for Stroem to turn the mirror. The majority who today make decisions that can lead people and the industry behind the light have a great responsibility. I noticed that on the day this setting was published, there were reactions from the companies already in the morning news, expressing that this was good. Finally, the industry was the mountain. It's pretty serious, because most people who are in the decision that we're going to make afterwards know that that's not the case. This is a hope of finding a solution, but only sustainable solutions within the EEA system are feasible. Many of us from the government parties have asked for it from this pulpit today, and we have not received an answer to that either. I also noticed that the representative Akselsen was visiting a melting plant in Hordaland. He had a conversation with the management and presented this model. The reaction there was probably somewhat controlled, detention. On the contrary, there was a desire from management for conditions of competition with which they could live, general conditions of competition, and so that more power had to be developed. This government is pursuing a district hostile industrial policy, says Langeland. I come from Hordaland, which is Norway's export state no. 1st@item: inlistbox That is where we first notice the fluctuations in the export conditions. Never better, because we have a policy in this country that gives business good conditions. It also makes us have other activities to flourish in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e994	One can get far on purpose, but one can also prevent a lot if you have a wretched mind. That means that I will now take the floor again. The Council of State said that the Energy Act does not prevent the reintroduction of power in Norway. No, that's right. But if you look at the situation that Norway has come up with, with an ever larger and larger gap between production and consumption, maybe a slightly positive angle and say: How can the Energy Act help us get enough power in Norway? It must be a cross of thought even for the Council of State to find now, in the same power market as us, can expand nuclear power to over 30 øre per. kilowatts, that Sweden is building gas power plants in Gothenburg based on Norwegian gas via Germany and Denmark, in the same power market as us, and that State power is purchasing into gas power plants in Germany, in an energy market that is going to be the same as what we have, without building in Norway so that we are self-sufficient in gas. The energy nation of Norway is not able to be self-sufficient. So to the representative Halleraker, everyone disagrees with the government parties. Employee organisations, employers’ organisations, environmental organisations, even the democratic majority in Norway disagree with the policy now pursued by the Government. Then it's arrogant when we suddenly find out overnight that what we've been on before, doesn't go on. It's arrogant. There's no one who can say anything but that it's arrogant. I think we have a will. We assume that the government is following up the decisions that are being made here today. That's the starting point of the majority, and we're adding it as a prerequisite when we're going to vote later. If the government doesn't just show arrogance, then there's no contempt for a grand majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1003	Hallgeir H. Langeland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1006	Three times I have told from this pulpit what the Council of State Widvey is asking for, given that she is today being required to give a statement on magazine filling and multi-yearly/six-year magazine. So I'm going to repeat that I'm waiting for the statement that the Council of State is required by a large majority to come with. I will answer the questions when the distribution is complete. Then it is that SV has repeatedly wanted a revision of the Energy Act just to get it more environmental profiled. If a person reads the proposal from the Committee of VI and not just concentrates on whether it can weaken his opponent himself, it is easy to say that a person should also benefit from better use of existing production. And then one commits itself to new production. I think a person now feels so much burning under the legs of the government that an attack from all sides. But I think all the parties here at Stortinget would have thought that today we became a few that we want a new industrial power regime, and that one should make sure that it comes in place. But this government can't, because they won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1015	Olav Akselsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1018	The situation is that Norway is in a more unfortunate situation with respect to its energy balance every year. The gap between consumption and production is increasing year by year. Before we got the energy promise, the situation was reversed. This increases production capacity more than consumption. I do not say that it is the energy law's fault that this situation has changed, but I find that the situation is quite different after the energy law was introduced, as he was before the energy law came. Then I thought it would be natural to go through the law to see if there is anything that could stimulate the development of new power in Norway. Some say that politicians have seen it blocked, but I myself have helped to give 12 TWh to gas power plants, but it hasn't been built. When there's a political desire to achieve a goal, I think it's our condemned duty as politicians to try to see if there's anything about the framework conditions that can change, so that one reaches that goal. That's what this thing is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1023	The President would point out that the wording here was not entirely in line with parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1026	I record that both the representative Klungland and the representative Akselsen now state that what they really think is that the gap between production and consumption is too large, that it is increasing, and that one really wants to balance. I would also like to say that the vision should be that the energy nation of Norway should have surplus power, so that we can export gas, which we export today, but also that in the future we have an ambition that we can export renewable energy. That's being visionary. I demand what one really intends to do in terms of the Energy Act, when one now asks us to evaluate it. I would like to point out that the last time the Stortinget asked us to do so, probably one year ago, on 18 May 2004, we were asked specifically to consider the obligation of discovery and security of supply, so that we had the opportunity to come back with proposals for changes, with a different type of thinking than the Energy Act actually represents. We have assessed that, and that assessment is in the revised national budget. It's just to note that the discovery obligation is actually not compatible with the power system that we have in the Nordic region today. I choose to believe that the Workers' Party has not intended to go away from the type of power system we have today. So let's focus on what we actually agree on: creating new power. In fact, I think it's throwing blues in people's eyes when a person asks to get an investigation of something that's a wrong tool. So it's not the Energy Act that needs to be amended in order for the Storting to take decisions to create more force. I believe that the Storting agrees that what is involved in contributing to this is concrete proposals for more wind power, more hydropower and more gas power. We also need more heat, and we need wind, in the future. I think that if we can concentrate on having great ambitions on behalf of the nation, that there is a common expansion that is needed to create more power, there will be power for the industry. It will be powerful enough for consumers, and it will actually also be an opportunity for us to get reduced prices. Of course, I will return to Stortinget with a response to the decisions that the Stortinget will take this evening. It was just to be missing that I wasn't going to do it. But I think it must be reasonable to be able to inform about the investigations that the Government has actually made, and the answers that have been obtained, without being called arrogant for that reason. I think it's a wrong tool when you point out that it's the energy law you have to do something about, when you actually point out that there's a gap between production and consumption that you really want to do something about. There is nothing in the Energy Act today that prevents Storting from taking decisions on more wind power, more hydropower, more gas power plants, more use of heat and more energy extraction. There is nothing in the Energy Act today that prevents us from having offensive policies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1045	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2525]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1053	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1061	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Britt Hildeng on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Socialist Left Party, No. 3, by Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4 and 5, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4 and Nos 5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1100	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The cancellation asks the Government to establish a system of guaranteed minimum income as an alternative to many of today’s social security schemes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1115	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose to the Storting to introduce national social assistance standards, which are nationally funded, in the context of the review of all social benefits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1130	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that local knowledge of work and employment is also central to the service provision of the new employment and welfare kit.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1264	During the debate, Mr Molvik has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a waiting period guarantee for the treatment of mental and drug abuse for children and young people under 18 years of age.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1294	During the debate, 43 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from the Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party proposal No. 3, by Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 4, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 5, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 6-13, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 14-42, by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 43, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14-42, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1509	It is then voted on by the other proposals of the Progress Party. So the Coastal Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1521	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6–13, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The coastal party has announced support for proposal No. 8, and it's going to add up to this first. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1538	It is then voted on by the other proposals of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1592	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1607	Proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1625	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1643	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Labour Party and the Advance Party, is taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1667	Proposal No. 43, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Centre Party, to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1686	There will now be a vote on the Committee's position on I, II, III and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1711	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they will also support Roman Num V.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1722	It's going to be videotape over IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1732	Here the President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1751	The President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Coastal Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1771	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1788	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Signe Eye, on behalf of Workers' Party proposal No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1818	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to propose a mandatory introduction programme for religious ministers.2. The majority asks the Government to investigate and elucidate the question of the need for the organisation of theological/religious education for large religious minority communities. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1841	During the debate, Per Sandberg tabled six proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. The Coastal Party has announced its support for the proposals No. One, two, five and six, and it's going to add up to these first.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1887	Proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Party of Advancement, to vote:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e1926	During the debate, Mr Voksdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-2.ana.ud2349e2024	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
