ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e75	The President will draw attention to the fact that some of the dossiers are not yet in the seats of the representatives, but they will be here. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting continue beyond the scheduled time until noon. 16th@item: inlistbox Are there any objections to the President's proposal? It's not. – It is then deemed to have been adopted. Evening meeting is set at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e95	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e104	The reason for the proposal for a new tax payment law is to improve the accessibility of users by providing them with a more holistic, systematic and transparent regulatory framework. The tax revenue is approximately NOK 700 billion per person. years, and therefore the collection rules are of great social importance. Several hearing authorities have expressed scepticism about this new tax payment law at a number of points that I will enter on the road. One of the objections is that the legal structure is unnecessarily complicated and heavy. But in this case we have asked questions to the ministry and got an assessment back where they say that, according to the department's opinion, this is the most appropriate way to organize the legal material. The Committee takes note of this assessment and sees no need to change the legal structure in any way. Another of the objections raised is that the law provides for the regulation of the municipal tax collection. However, the majority here has shown that it is explicitly stated in the first paragraph of Section 2-1 that it is the municipal tax collector who will collect income and wealth taxes, social security contributions and employers' contributions. That means that if at some point the government has plans to transfer the tax collection function to government agencies, this requires a change in law, and then we'll have that discussion when possible. In the case of employers’ checks, the Committee has made a clarification in Sections 5 to 13 that states that such checks can be delegated. This is done to avoid misunderstandings. In the second paragraph of Section 11-3, there is a rule on the calculation of interest rates that assumes that, in some cases, tax payers do not receive public interest. A collective committee has here stated that this rule should have been followed up by the corresponding rule where the cash stream goes contrary, so there are taxpayers who have to pay taxes. The majority of the Committee is also behind a proposal asking the Government to come back to the Storting with a case on this during 2005. When it comes to tax selection, it's probably where the committee has recorded the largest exposure. There has been a considerable commitment from different sources when it comes to the question of tax selection's further existence. As far as the Progress Party and I have registered, it is not primarily the taxpayers who have been concerned about this issue, but rather the local authorities, local politicians and local authorities. There is reason to believe that much of this exposure may be due to some being afraid that this could be the first step in the regulation of the municipal tax collector function. This is a fear that the Progress Party is hard to understand. The Committee has divided into three parts in the case of tax selection. The Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party want the system we have today, with a tax selection for each municipality, to continue. Right, Christian People's Party and Left want all in all a liquidation of the tax selection. The progress point has entered for a third solution, i.e. that we get a reduction in the tax selection, so that each selection covers the same geographical area as the equality offices do. It will mean a reduction to 99 tax choices. After such a model, the tax selection shall continue to be linked to tax collection. They shall not be linked to the Equations Offices in any way. The municipal tax collector will continue to be the tax collector, and it is also natural for municipalities to provide the necessary secretariat for tax selection, for example. by the fact that the largest municipality as the individual tax selection covers then has the secretariat function. The reason for this proposal is that in this way we can have more cases and more frequent meetings in the individual tax selection, especially in the tax selections that will cover the smallest municipalities. This should lead to a greater level of experience in the individual tax selection and thus to a better legal certainty for the individual taxpayer. Furthermore, by maintaining the tax selection function, there will be no need to introduce any complaint mechanism, as has been proposed in the event of the tax selection being terminated. Since the government party has signaled that they will subsidize the proposal on 99 tax selection, this proposal will have a majority. This was a rough review of the main points. There are also some other minority proposals and some other comments that I think the other parties that are behind them will take on board themselves. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e142	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e145	What we are dealing with today, as the rapporteur said, is a law in which we collect several laws on the collection of taxes and taxes, so that we now have a single law. The Labour Party fully agrees with this. We think it is good, and I support a lot of what the rapporteur said about the law. What we're about to see is the availability of users through a comprehensive, systematic and transparent regulatory framework. It's the most important thing. Also in the hearings that we have had, it seems to be a review melody. The next step is to bring together all the regulations on the payment and collection of taxes in one regulation, so that it is also systematised in relation to the law itself, as the Government outlines in the bill. We also welcome that. However, on two points I would like to express a different view on behalf of the Workers' Party. The first is what the government says about the future of the chemist. We're not changing the law here in the setting and we're saying that the chemistry is now going to become stately. We don't. So I might say, well, you just kind of anticipate the events a little bit. But with regard to the position of the Workers' Party in the future, whether it's in the municipality or state, we have the following to say: The municipal tax collector now clears and collects up to 100 pst. of all the equation equal to that equal to that equal to that equal to That's what the chemist is doing today. Small municipalities have the same collection, it turns out, like the larger municipalities. Any government-enforcement and centralisation of tax collection could lead to poorer accessibility of public services in the local environment, and we will respond to that. We also think that it is a point that municipal responsibility for tax collection provides a basis for elected transparency and control, among other things. through the established tax administrations that we have today. We think it's very important to have people's ideas in the local environment. The government doesn't propose a governmentization of chemists, that's not what we're responding to. However, we believe that several major analyses and investigations need to be carried out before any steps are taken to introduce such a system. Our position is quite clear that the system should be as it is today. As for the next point: we have a different opinion, that's quite clear, and there we have a proposal on the future of the tax committees. The tax payment affects all adults and all Norwegian enterprises today. It represents, as it is written in the case, about 700 billion kroner in taxes and taxes, and is therefore very important for society. It is then important that the tax range is under popular transparency and control at all levels of the tax payment processes. We think this is very important to get a relationship with the tax and what it's about. The Tax Committee must represent an unbureaucratic corrective and transparency channel in our administrative and technocratic tax payment system. We believe it is important that the elected representatives are on the road in relation to our systems of equations – also in relation to the payment system. The local tax authorities constitute a democratic security valve for the enforcement of taxes by allowing, in exceptional cases, a reasonable assessment of the payment of the claim. We think that's important. We believe – on the basis of the reasons I have provided – that the tax committees must be maintained in all municipalities. The argument for this is, among other things, the desire for elected transparency. But we realize that there is a majority in favour of establishing 99 tax committees, not 435, as today. We don't go into it. We want the order of the day, and I have explained why the Workers' Party wants the tax committees as they are today. I'm addressing the proposal on what we have with the SV, the Center Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e162	The representative of Tore Nordtun has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e165	The case has been well explained by the case rapporteur and the representative of Nordtun. It is such that the Government obtains the agreement of the large majority of the Committee on the vast majority of a new Tax Payments Act, the main objective of which is to increase the accessibility of users through a comprehensive, systematic and transparent regulatory framework. This will only be achieved when over a hundred regulations in the area can be reduced to a few – or preferably one. I just wish the Government luck with that work. I'm going to focus on the disagreement that essentially concerns whether to have or not to maintain municipal tax committees. The government has proposed to liquidate them. There's been a disturbance in Kommune-Norway. I believe that it is not really the liquidation of the municipal tax committees that has caused the greatest concern, but a fear that the tax collection will become state-owned, and that the removal of tax samples can be seen as a sneaking-up of state tax collection. But it's not this that's the theme of this law review. No changes are proposed in the division of tasks between the recovery authorities. The draft law explicitly states that there should continue to be municipal tax collection of property and income taxes and social security contributions and employers' taxes. The Ministry of Finance has correctly asked the Tax Directorate to continue working on two tax collection models — one with the government of the tax collection function and the other with the continued municipal tax collection. Any government regulation therefore requires a new legal process. However, several parties have used the opportunity to emphasise their primary view that the tax collection should continue to be a municipal task. The government has not done that. We will await the government's assessment. It is probably no secret that many of the civil representatives believe that the Ministry of Finance should come up with very good and new reasons for proposing statehood, but they should be given a chance. However, that is not what we are discussing today. Today, these are the municipal tax committees we are discussing. The majority will retain tax collections on the basis of a request for municipal transparency and control in tax mitigation cases, i.e. cases of reduction or cancellation of tax claims up to NOK 200000. I can't claim that this can't be an important reason to keep the tax samples. However, in the case of government lots, legal certainty and non-discrimination are given the most weight. We have to remember that it's popularly elected supervision and control already today because we still have the popularly elected equations. When it comes to popular transparency and control of tax mitigation issues, it is not the consideration of the elected representatives who should weigh more heavily, but the consideration of taxpayers. We should bear in mind that many issues that are currently dealt with by the tax authorities will in future be dealt with in accordance with the rules of the Debt Code. This will result in fewer cases for tax administrations. In many municipalities there are already few cases and few meetings, and it takes a long time to get the matter settled. Since the decisions concern people in a difficult situation of life, long procedural periods can be seen as extra burdensome. Secondly, decisions in the tax committees will not have a justification, and they cannot be appealed as they are today. The rules of the Administrative Act, as proposed by the Government, are to be introduced in respect of the collection of taxes, but they will not apply to the work of the Selection Board if the majority obtains its will. In addition to the proposal for a right of appeal available from the Government, on the relaxation of reasonableness, the Government Parties have also proposed the right to appeal against a relaxation decision on grounds of public interest, i.e. decisions in which a tax or tax decision may be reduced or suspended if it is presumed to provide better cover than the invitation to tender. Government parties therefore want an extended right of appeal. The majority, who wish to maintain the tax sample, in the view of the Government Parties in this way deprive tax payers of the opportunity to have their decisions justified, and are also deprived of the possibility of complaint, which is otherwise considered to be essential legal certainty guarantees. In a recent letter to the Tax Directorate, the Ombudsman also expressed critical views on the tax committees’ proceedings and decision-making, including: because they do not justify their views. I'm a little concerned that the majority has looked blindly at the fear of local government from the government of the tax collection function, and therefore did not look at the possibility of improving legal certainty, non-discrimination and shortening the procedure for citizens. It's sad that a fear, which is unfounded, goes beyond taxpayers in this way. I am perhaps most surprised that the Progress Party, which is otherwise so concerned with taxpayers' legal certainty, has not seen this. But to the Progress Party, it's not too late to turn around. The government parties do not have quite the hope that the majority or the Progress Party will turn around after the debate on this matter. We have therefore signaled that we are voting subsidiaryly for the proposals of the Progress Party to reduce the number of tax samples, so that they will cover the same geographical area as the Equations Offices. So that's 99 samples. It will ensure a slightly greater experience base than with one in each municipality. I therefore hope that the vote can be put to the vote so that it is possible. So in the end, the Government parties do not need and do not consider it necessary to propose that the Government consider whether the interest calculation should be omitted if the late collection or payment is due to conditions that the tax and tax authorities are closest to carrying. This is what we expect the Government to assess without being imposed on it by the Stortinget, and we therefore vote against the proposal. At the end of the day, I would like to encourage the parties involved to continue to maintain the tax sample, to assess whether it is the best way to ensure legal certainty and non-discrimination for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e188	The President has noted the desire to be able to vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e191	As several representatives have pointed out, there has been a high level of involvement in tax-paying laws from local authorities and from local employment organisations. Because, as Heidi Larssen had so much to say, there is an underlying debate that has, in many ways, created the premise for the discussion of the bill, namely the question of the future of the municipal tax collection. SV is pleased that a group of financial committees now determines that it is not appropriate to state the tax collection. At the same time, we understand that the proposal, as it emerged from the Government, has caused concern in many municipalities. In a number of places in the legal text, the wordings that refer to municipal responsibility are weakened. We're surprised that the government does this when it asks itself to be trusted that someone doesn't want to facilitate regulation. The suggestions made by SV in the setting, and otherwise our vote, are supposed to correct this and remove all the reasons for doubting the intentions behind the proposal for the Tax Payments Act. It is against this background that SV opposes the removal of Section 5 of the Employment Act, and we would like to make it clear that it is the municipal tax collector to be mentioned in the proposal for Section 2-1 of the new Act. The most controversial thing in the government's bill is the proposal to remove the tax selection. There is a proposal SV is very different in. The municipal tax selections represent a security valve for the inhabitants and a necessary popular feature of a system that may otherwise appear to be bureaucratic and impenetrable for people facing payment problems. It is not by chance that both the Association of Lawyers and the Taxpayer Association have entered into this process of keeping selections. We record that the tax-sceptic bourgeois parties are also skeptical of a system that ensures that people who cannot handle their tax claims can be met with understanding and humaneness. The proximity of the municipal tax selections makes it possible with an individual follow-up. SV believes that the tax selection should still be municipal, and does not support the scheme proposed by the Progress Party, with a selection for each of the equality offices. One such solution, which we now understand is getting multiples of subsidiary support from the government party today, is however better than if the selections had been completely removed, as the government's original proposal was. With that, I would like to address the proposal in the vote that SV has with the Central Party and the Coastal Party, and the proposal that we have with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e206	The representative of Heidi Grande Røys has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e209	As many speakers before me have said today, on the basis of this proposition, we have dealt with different aspects of the tax collection. The proposal for a new Tax Payments Act will replace the current Tax Payments Act and a number of similar rules. The collection of rules is about payment, maturity, interest, limitation and liability for tax claims, and it will provide a simpler and more uniform regulatory framework for the different tax and tax requirements. Although many of the changes in the proposition have been relatively straightforward, there's no way to get past that there's been any concern about a couple of relationships. Outside the municipalities there is a strong desire for the tax collection to be, and remain, municipal. It's a vision I share. The experience with municipal tax collection is very good. That gives you a good degree of solution. The legal certainty of citizens and the user-friendliness of tax collection are taken into account. Municipal tax collection also serves local democracy through elected transparency. As this proposition proposes to wind up the municipal tax authorities, some have been afraid that this was a step on the way to making the tax collection state-owned and centralised. I am therefore pleased that it has not been the intention of the Government, and that a majority of the Committee agrees that the tax collection should continue to be municipal. It is clarified that in the event of a subsequent amendment, a separate legislative decision is required. It is a very strong and clear comment and a clear signal the Committee gives at this point. Another question, of course, is the actual assessment of whether there should be municipal tax authorities or not. The government’s view has been that the considerations to be taken into account in the municipal tax committees will be covered if the rules of the Administrative Act are applied to the Tax Payments Act. This is considered to be the case, among others. on the ground that the decisions must be reasoned and that appeals are given. When a majority of the committee does not wish to wind up the tax committees, I am pleased that we can support a proposal by means of a subsidiary vote that the tax committees should be retained. The proposal reduces the number of tax samples, and it may also lead to an even greater level of competence for tax committees by giving them more cases. One will then have both elected control and competence into the new tax committees. I want to make it clear that the tax samples are going to be local samples. So it's not like if there was to be a further reduction in the number of Equations Offices, the number of tax samples should be reduced accordingly automatically. No, there has to be a new case for Stortinget. The point is that this should be locally anchored selections. The fewer samples, the more centralization it becomes. I would also like to clarify what the rapporteur said in his statement, that it is in this that the secretariat function is to be added to one of the tax collection offices, preferably in the largest municipality. The reason for this is that otherwise, a few combinations of the fixing function and the collection function will be added. For this reason, the secretariat function for tax selection was also transferred from the Equations Offices for approx. 10 years ago. The tax authorities also have and will continue to have their own function as they also deal with the financial and health situation of the debtor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e231	I want to limit the contribution to one theme, and that theme is the future of municipal tax administrations, including the future of municipal tax collection. The Committee has received numerous requests in this matter. Most of them fear that the Government's proposal to close the municipal tax committees is the first paragraph of a strategy to state the tax collection currently being made by the municipalities. It is not strange that such suspicions appear. The government does not have the power to side with the Tax DG’s proposal on State acquisition, despite a consultation round where the arguments against the proposal are overwhelming. Government parties allow the extensive process in this matter to continue. This is a waste of public resources. There is no doubt that municipal collection is far more effective than the State, and that this is largely due to local knowledge and the judgement exercised — including in local tax administrations. It is positive that there is a large majority to retain municipal tax committees. It has to be respected in the next round. It is negative that there is a small majority that now decides that municipalities should be required to cooperate on the tax sample, so that there is one tax sample for each EQU. This is a hybrid solution, which means that today's tax range has nothing to do with the Equations Offices. Neither shall they have it in the future, after what the majority say. Today, the tax authorities have the local authority as their case manager. It is not required to change it, but it is required which of the local authorities is to have this task. That competence should grow by getting a bigger office where someone more often meets, at least I don't believe in anything. Competence exists. That's why it works as well as it does, and that's why it's respected by ordinary people. Today, we have many examples of inter-municipal cooperation on tax collection and procedures related to tax administrations. It will be worse to find the good, practical solutions when applying cooperation within geographical boundaries where this may not have been tried before. The centre party enters to maintain today's municipal tax sample scheme. Today's tax selection ensures that a elected body has access to and influence on the work of the administration. Tax selection in each municipality offers taxpayers the opportunity to receive rapid, non-bureaucratic and non-humiliating treatment when they are in an impossible situation, economically or healthfully. Today's system works very well. It benefits taxpayers — for the benefit of the ordinary citizen. Tax will be charged 100 pst. People are treated the same way. Local judgement where it is necessary to avoid conflicts plays a major role and helps to strengthen respect for tax collection and for tax morality in general. I am particularly amazed at the Right in this matter. State Council Erna Solberg uses every opportunity to talk about the importance of strong local democracy. Then, in this case, there is a solution that is obviously much worse than today's solution, both in terms of democracy and the consideration of the taxpayer, and it will not least lead to increased bureaucracy. It is no wonder that a fear is that the next proposal will be a proposal for a state acquisition of the entire tax collection, contrary to what is desired locally. I would like to address the suggestions that the Central Party and the Coastal Party are all about in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e254	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e257	As some others who have taken the word in this case, I just want to focus on what seemed to be the most debated in the legislative changes we're going to make: the proposal to close down the municipal tax selections. I note that the proposal is interpreted as being the first step towards making the tax collection state-owned. Then I just want to say that in the left we still want the tax collection to take place locally, under the direction of the municipalities. We do not want to transfer this responsibility to the state. That's why I'm a little surprised when the proposal to shut down the municipal tax authorities is interpreted as being the first step towards making the tax collection state-owned. For us in the left, that's not what we've been talking about. For the left, this is primarily about securing the individual a fair and just decision, when the citizen e.g. would like to be reduced or dropped on a tax charge. Then the starting point must be a quick decision, and a decision where a single decision is made. When using the Administration Law, the decision should also be justified. One has the right to appeal against the decision. It also has one to this extent today, with the local tax selections and perhaps the presidency as a complaint body. In fact, the proposals put forward by the Government will strengthen citizens' rights. I myself have been a member of the local tax authorities in my municipality – more than eight years ago. In my municipality there were not many things per day. years up to treatment. For those who then applied to be liable for tax, for those who were in a difficult situation in life, the length of the procedure was enormous. Many of the matters that are being dealt with today will also be dealt with in the future under the law of the debt regime, as was the case with the matters that I was with and dealt with at the time. This means that there are even fewer cases and even longer proceedings in local tax administrations. For us in the left hand side, that's the main basis for putting down the tax selection. However, the main reason is that a person is subject to a management law, that a person has a right to appeal, and that a decision is reasoned. As the representative Heidi Larssen has said, the Government Party supports its proposal subsidiaryly. I thought that the Progress Party gave a good foundation to the comments as to why they wanted to change this with the tax selection. But the conclusion was not entirely in line with the foundation, I thought. They pointed to both this with a narrow experience base and an immeasurable discrimination and the provision of a wider experience base for these tax selections. Now we're going to have to look and try out how it works when we get bigger tax choices, with broader competence, to secure the individual citizen. But I'm a little disappointed that here we see them adding, bureaucracy, up against the individual citizen's rights. Then I would like to say that this proposal – the Left wants to be its strong champion of local democracy – is not about weakening local democracy, as the representative Morten Lund was. For us, it's actually about strengthening the individual citizen's rights, and it's citizens who basically come up with a difficult life situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e274	Today's legislation is comprehensive, unwieldy and, to some extent, very complicated. It's hard to find in front of the taxpayers. The rules are scattered in many different laws and in more than 100 regulations, laid down in compliance with these laws. The rules are sorted by type of requirement and not set out in the context. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee on Finance is largely in agreement with the bill on new tax-paying laws. The time was overdue for such an audit which has now been carried out and which has received the approval of the Storting. Account has been taken of the tax and tax payers and the business community which has been the most important factor in the preparation of the proposal. Private individuals pay a variety of tax requirements, e.g.: taxes on property and income, inheritance taxes, document taxes and annual taxes on cars. On the one hand, traders pay taxes and taxes themselves, and on the other hand they charge taxes and taxes on behalf of creditors, such as: through the advance VAT regime. Both of these groups can now find the collection rules for all the requirements of one law. The debate – and I understand that it also concerns the treatment of the Financial Committee – has been marked by a discussion about the possible transfer of tax liability to the State. No such debate has been organised in this matter. The government has taken no position. The reason why the case has been raised – and I would like to mention this in particular by referring to representatives in this room – is that three years ago, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinge had raised quite significant criticisms about the management of the tax collection, on the basis that there was a wide variety of treatment of enterprises, depending on the municipality in which they were located. Some municipalities have even decided that it should not be an inspection of employers’ fees. The range of treatment provided by enterprises has been the starting point of that investigation. We haven't concluded, but we have reduced a sample. A majority recommends the granting of State aid. We have not followed it up in any other way than to say that we are asking for an investigation that also looks at alternatives in order to meet Storting's desire for equal treatment of businesses, regardless of where they are in the country. There are more ways to do it than to state it all. But we haven't addressed that debate in this context. There is nothing in this case that predicts any conclusion in that matter. The majority of the financial committee opposes the Government's proposal to wind up the tax committees. In the government’s view, such liquidation had ensured taxpayers’ legal certainty and non-discrimination in a better way than current practices. The majority in the Committee joins in a solution that retains the tax sample but reduces it to one per cent. Equation Office. I take note of this. This solution is better than today's. I would point out that the Committee has also seen the need for reform in this area. Fewer tax administrations provide a better basis for rapid treatment and competence that will lead to more non-discrimination. In the setting up, the Government is also asked to consider an exemption from the calculation of interest for late payment if the delay is due to conditions for which the tax or fee authorities are closest to the responsibility. This assessment has been requested to be submitted to the Stortinget by the end of the current year. Of course, the government is going to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e289	The following shall be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e292	Yesterday we discussed the power and democracy investigation. It raises important questions relating to the relationship between the State and the municipalities. The power investigation also takes into account popular local governance, the proximity of decisions and the legitimacy of local public-elected governance, for example. in relation to the action democracy. Now I don't think people are going to go to the torch to keep the local tax authorities, but most people would probably have noticed well if they were gone, and not least they would have noticed if the tax collection became state-owned. Municipalities need professional environments, and tax collection makes a good contribution to this. Former Prime Minister Syse said several times, on many different occasions, that what is in order does not need to be repaired. This expression can also be used about the relationship between municipalities and the country in terms of tax collection. The municipalities get closer to 100 pst. of the tax. Then you have to be able to say it's okay. It doesn't need to be repaired. However, I agree with the Council of State that different treatment needs to be avoided for enterprises and individuals. But if it gets better by depriving the municipalities of the tax collection and putting down the tax samples, I'm actually in very great doubt about. In my opinion, the tax authorities perform an important function in the tax payment system. It is a well-proven and well-established system, set out in our democratic governance principles. It ensures that a elected body has influence and transparency in the work of the administration and contributes to the trust of taxpayers that decisions are taken on a fair basis. In the view of the Workers' Party, the position of taxpayers will be impaired in the event that forgiveness on a cheap basis is no longer to be assessed or determined by a public body. I believe that the tax authorities represent a fairly unbureaucratic corrective and a good transparency channel in the technocratic tax payment system. I have also noticed that even the Tax Payer Association has stated the following: «The Tax Payer Association continues to want a system that takes good old-fashioned farmland into account, as is the case with the Tax Committees. Popular transparency and influence in the tax payment should be maintained.» That view I share, and therefore: going from 435 tax samples to 99 is at least better than going from 435 to 0. We'll see what the vote will finally be here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e310	The issue of municipal or state tax collection has also been a topic in this debate, although it is a little side to what the bill covers. The background for it is that we, who have been for a while, have experienced a year-long drag on the future position of the tax collection. The last thing is that there was a selection that distributed this and sent things out to the audience. In my opinion, the hearing gave quite clear feedback to the department. Of the 314 municipalities that gave a hearing call, 308 said that the tax collection still has to be a municipal task. Other terms also support this. But in spite of this, the department – among others. in the document ‘Final Steering Signals 2005’, which the Tax Authority of Oslo and Akershus sent to the tax collectors in the county on 21 February – the following: ‘The hearing opinions of the Tax Recovery Committee’s report NOU 2004:12 ‘Better tax collection’ have not provided sufficient basis for decision-making.’; The Tax Directorate therefore initiates new distributions on a new basis and on new premises. That's why there's going to be a situation where you're a little bit up all the time for the state to somehow win the fight to transfer the tax collection to the state. Then go to it with tax selection. I noticed that both the representative Heidi Larssen and the finance minister here argued with legal certainty. Then I want to refer to what the Norwegian Lawyers' Association says about this particular point, because they've also been concerned about legal certainty. They say the following: ‘Local responsibility for tax collection provides a basis for popular transparency and control — including through well-established tax administrations. Any governmentalisation and centralisation will lead to an ‘untransparent’ system of large public sector offices — and to a reduction in the possibilities for public access to information. This is also a side of legal certainty. Municipally elected tax committees constitute a ‘security valve’ that prevents individuals and businesses from being exposed to unfair creditor in a difficult situation. A government announcement will lead to the removal of this important safety valve.’» I think we need to establish that the transparency and decision-making power of a elected body are in opposition to strengthening legal certainty. We don't have to use it as an argument to put it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e327	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. There has been a consultation round where there has been almost unanimous agreement that the tax collection will be municipal in the future, and municipalities also represent taxpayers to the greatest extent. But others have also said the same thing. Then we have had a debate in Stortinget where all parties, except the Right, have said: We have decided, we want there to be municipal tax collection in the future as well. When it's said like that in this room, it probably also says in the party programs, because this has been discussed a lot around. What is the rationale — after this — for doubting whether a state acquisition of a tax collection that works perfectly well and that is supported by the population is still to be investigated? Is the Minister of Finance still lacking a decision-making basis to say that this investigation has been concluded and that we are now drawing the clear conclusion that follows this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e336	I'm a little surprised that such a large part of the debate on this law is about municipal tax collection or not. I just have to stress again that this law explicitly states that one should have a municipal tax collection. This is not a theme in this matter, and if the Government at some point in time decides that the municipal tax collection function should be reviewed, reorganized and, if necessary, made state-owned, it has to be reviewed in Odelstinget, and then we have to take that discussion. I have also registered that much goes on the tax selection function. It was not surprising that there was a large part of the debate. I'm glad that one gets multiples for a reduction, that it's 99, and that one can get more frequent meetings and thus improve legal certainty for the individual taxpayer. The Labour Party and SV are concerned that it is important to have popular transparency and control, and that it is therefore important to carry on the tax selection process. I agree, but I haven't been given any explanation as to why there's going to be something worse than popular transparency and a poorer control if one reduces tax selection to 99. In my view, more frequent meetings and better experience will enhance the transparency and control of the public and will also lead to better legal certainty for the individual taxpayer facing payment problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e345	The representative Lund asked me a question as to why, after a hearing after a selection setting that has been very clearly opposed to government, we are investigating the second option. The answer to that was given in my previous post: it is because the Riksrevision has strongly criticised the tax collection, based on the fact that there is inequality between municipalities in the way it is carried out or whether it is implemented at all. It was dealt with by the Control and Constitutional Committee and the Storting delivered a position in which this relationship was pointed out. So of course you can say that the result of that is not to do anything. But I think it's important that I try to follow up all of the Storting's decisions, and find solutions that can at least make this problem smaller, maybe remove it. That's why.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e352	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1082]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e368	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party and Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e379	In this setting, which ends in Ot.prp. No 92 for 2004–2005, the Government is now promoting a number of proposals, including: on a new method of taxation applicable to the members of a participating company and to self-employed persons. The proposals in this proposition are to a large extent a follow-up to the tax reform that we discussed in spring 2004. The Workers' Party supported the tax reform in the main principles at the time, following deliberations with the Government Parties. We went, among others. in order to introduce the shareholder model from 2006 and it was adopted in Stortinget last autumn. This model implies that dividends and gains in addition to a certain return are now to be taxed as general income. We support the conversion because we believe that the shareholder model will contribute to a fairer income tax. The same income will be taxed to a large extent, regardless of future income. However, we voted against the Government's proposal to reduce the rates in the top tax, as well as to step down and eventually remove the wealth tax. We believe that this will have very unfortunate distribution consequences and that it is not necessary to implement this tax reform. In the tax notice, the Government outlined a model for participating companies and individual enterprises based on current taxation, the so-called ‘screening model’. In its position, a majority of the financial committee, which is now a majority, asked for an investigation into the possibility of introducing a tax exemption model also for participating companies and individual enterprises. If this was not possible, the majority asked at the time that the consequences of introducing the protection model were further assessed, in particular for innovation and entrepreneurial activity, and that any proposals for adjustments to the protection model were made. In Ot.prp. No 92 for 2004-2005 refers the Government to a sample, the so-called Excursion Committee. They have investigated the taxation of traders, and it appears that the government is largely following this selection in the main principle. The risk-free return on capital invested in the business shall be protected against additional taxation. This principle is used both in the taxation of shareholders, members of participating companies and for self-employed persons. As a generic term, the «screening method» is proposed. The Labour Party supports this proposal. The tax model for participating companies, the so-called ‘participating model’, is very similar to the solution chosen for limited liability companies. Individual participants shall be taxed by distribution and the tax shall be in general income. The screening shall be based on tax values, and the protection rate shall be set at the annual average of five-year government bond interest rates after – I stress – after tax. Thus, the display rate is equal in the shareholder model and the participant model. In the case of the tax model for individual enterprises, the so-called ‘company model’, it is based on the fact that additional taxes are made on a continuous basis rather than on distribution. The income base for additional taxation shall be revenue from persons, as opposed to participating companies and limited liability companies, where the distribution in addition to the protection is taxed as general income. The government here demonstrates that the consideration of neutrality between forms of enterprise can speak in order that additional taxation for self-employed workers should also take place at the time of distribution, but is opposed to such a solution because it would involve major practical problems. The Working Party shares this assessment by the Government. The valuation of the screening basis shall be based on the tax base, but historical cost and equivalency shall be used for non-depreciable assets. The limited possibility of adding accounting tax values to the land is continued. The screening rate is now set at the annual average of five-year pre-tax government bond interest rates. Again, I underline: before tax. Debt shall be shielded with actual interest on debt, which will in particular be an advantage for start-ups with a high level of debt financing. The working party welcomes the fact that the sharing model can now be completed. The sharing model is administratively demanding, and it has become over time for easy adaptation of labour income to be taxed as capital income. The purpose of the sharing model has been to distinguish the part of the business income derived from the labour input of active owners in the business, so that it can be taxed as personal income. The purpose of the screening method is to hedge the risk-free return on the capital invested from taxation other than ordinary taxes on general income. The tax tightening referred to here must be seen in the context of the gradual simplification of taxation under the split model, and there was a great deal of adjustment. The tax rules probably imply that part of the labour income of those with high incomes is taxed as capital income. These rules will now be removed. Furthermore, it has been relatively easy to adapt to avoid being subject to the sharing rules, by keeping the owner’s activity for less than 300 hours. The new rules mean that no activity is required. The distinction between liberal and non-liberal professions is now proposed. This distinction has been perceived by many as deeply unfair. Tax incentives for self-employed persons must also be seen in the context of the introduction of dividend taxes for shareholders. The participant model and the business model mean equal treatment for the three types of company that I have now had. So I want to get into three other issues that are also mentioned. I would like to mention in particular that ESA's revised guidelines on State aid to the maritime transport industry imply that mobile devices in the form of rigs, production ships, etc. will no longer be permitted assets within the company tax scheme. The ESA Member States have been given a deadline to amend their aid schemes by 30 July 2005. The Workers' Party supports the Government's proposal that the changes should first come into force as of the 2006 income year, so that companies can have some time. The working party is concerned that there must be a transitional arrangement to live with for rigging companies, so that the competences and jobs associated with the Norwegian rigging companies are given the opportunity to stay and develop further in Norway. I welcome the transitional rules for which a unanimous committee proposes that the Government should organise. However, the working party considers that it is very unfortunate that these transitional rules are not ready now, just before the change is due to take effect. This is somewhat alarming, given that the Government is constantly stressing the need for predictable and stable framework conditions for business. Then there's a point about forestry: a lot of forest owners will now have a tax boost as a result of the introduction of the business model. While forest owners today often fall outside the sharing model because of the activity requirement and thus are only taxed by 28 pst., many of them with the new system will be able to easily enter the peak tax position. The working party does not want to create a separate tax system for individual industries and is therefore in favour of the inclusion of forest owners in the business model. However, we are concerned that a reduction in profitability could lead to a decrease in activity levels, which would have negative consequences for industries processing timber. The Labour Party will show that, in the treatment of the new Forestry Act, all parties on the Stortinget participated for increased harvesting in Norway. The working party is therefore in favour of reintroducing the average equation scheme for forestry, which will mean that the revenue from forestry will be fixed at the average rate of yield over the last five years. The scheme was adopted in the context of the examination of the 2005 budget, against the votes of the Labour Party. The average equation scheme will stimulate increased use of forest resources and more rational operation. I am pleased that a large majority now support the reintroduction of the average equation for forestry. And then finally, I want to pick up three points. It's deduction from the fee for commuter tax exemptions for the free-of-charge of pedicure workers and rental allowances for seafarers’ special allowances for age and disability These are three schemes that the Government proposed to remove six months ago, and they were then supported by the Progress Party. Fortunately, these schemes are fully reintroduced as they were before. The Labour Party is very pleased about this. That's been our position the whole time. We are now pleased that a large majority are in favour of reintroducing these schemes that were proposed six months ago. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Labour Party and the proposals in which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e439	The representative Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e442	When today's public meeting is over, the law changes to the tax reform are in place. The exemption method, the shareholder model and the protection model have been adopted and the sharing model and the RISK and remuneration system can be closed from 1 January 2006. The tax system will then be in conformity with the EEA Agreement and the decisions will be taken in good time before the reform enters into force. The government’s proposal for tax reform combines improvements in the tax system with tax relief for all income groups. The tax reform makes the tax system fairer and, together with the other tax policies of the Government, contributes to increased value creation. Overall, fiscal policy contributes to job security and to ensuring a business that can bear the welfare costs of society in the years to come. Finally, the split model can be terminated. This is probably the most unfair part of the tax system, because some are able to tax labour income with capital taxes of only 28 p.m. However, ordinary workers have a marginal tax of up to 65 pst. including an employer’s fee. The difference in tax for otherwise identical efforts is then quite formidable! The removal of the split model takes place by approximating the marginal tax on capital income and labour income. In the tax reform, dividends and gains in excess of the protection rate are taxed at 48 pst. At the same time, marginal labour taxes must be reduced to the same level. The gain then disappears by camouflaging labour income as capital income and the split model can be liquidated. The participation model ensures equal treatment of the income of participating companies with the income of limited liability companies. For most people, the participant model is a clear improvement in relation to the original protection model, because you change to a take-out principle along the same lines as for the shareholder model. The business model shall ensure equal treatment of personal entrepreneurial income with the income of limited liability companies and labour income. The business model is not an output tax-based solution, but provides continuous taxation. The reason why the exclusion principle cannot be used in the business model is that it is now reasonably well documented that it is difficult to make an effective distinction between the business economy and the private economy for personal business. In the context of the suspension of the Committee on Excise Duties, the Government has proposed to continue the deduction of salaries and to ensure that debt protection is made at the actual interest rate. In isolation, the participating model and the business model generate a tax increase of 500 million, respectively. and 200 million. kr. This is necessary in order to approximate the marginal tax on capital and labour. On average, however, the tax reform will facilitate all income groups of traders through reduced top taxes and reduced taxes on wealth. If the objective of a fairer tax system is to be achieved, the marginal tax on labour must be reduced. If not, there will still be great opportunities to save taxes on the camouflage of labour income as capital income. It is with great wonder that we record that the Workers' Party is adding up to such an adjustment option in its design. More specifically, a high-wage tax gift should be looked for for a long time. An employee with an income of 3 million. NOK – and they are actually some of them – can save NOK 374 000 in tax only by withdrawing the income via a limited liability company. In any case, gross paper redundancies about such tax gifts would lead to the closure of this unreasonable adjustment option by the government. This is a fundamental flaw of the Workers' Party's tax regime and shows that the party does not have a good alternative tax regime in this context. Many in business see it as uncertain what the outcome of the decision to raise taxes would be. It's a real uncertainty. If there is a change in government, business will face fiscal austerity either by implementing tax reform – without reducing taxes on wealth and top taxes – or by other means of increasing taxes. I note that some entrepreneurs and the Progress Party seem to believe that it is the Government's tax reform that provides such tax incentives – as if a system reform could prevent a red-green government from implementing tax incentives for business and employees. I think it's going to be naïve. The peculiar wealth tax is the most anti-business element in the tax system and undermines Norwegian value creation. It blindly affects equity, regardless of business performance, regardless of the capital requirements of the enterprises, and regardless of the taxpayer’s ability to pay, etc. Growing companies on the stock exchange are pressured to pay dividends even if the capital requirement is high, and the enterprises are held for equity even when the enterprises are running with an ordinary operating deficit. Some owners have to sell shares to pay the property tax. The property tax is a fundamental error and must be extinguished! The left-hand argument for property taxes is not based on the consideration of value creation and jobs, but on the election campaign rhetoric about rich and poor – a rhetoric that can be expensive to Norwegian industry in the long term. Government Parties wish to halve their taxes on wealth in 2006 and 2007, in order to be liquidated in the long term. The EIC states that the property tax should be removed during the next major period. The government reduced the property tax by half a billion in 2005 by reducing the valuation of listed shares by 35 pst. Now, as revised, the Workers' Party will cut the discount on all shares by 10 p.m. and increase the ownership tax by 460 million. kr. This is almost a rarity, because the proposal will not produce proceeds unless new tax cards are printed. If this is to be done, large costs will be incurred, which the Workers' Party has not included in its calculation, both for the State and for the business community. The more well-known concepts of money and creative bookkeeping are difficult to get. The tax reform as a system will in any case lead to a pressure on the taxes on wealth, and excise duty will be the main line instead of source taxation. Many input from forestry operators has been made in the handling of the business model. This group is very well adapted to the sharing model today and has a low tax level. The shrapnel in the enterprise approach will be highly visible for this group in isolation. As a result of the fact that logging is a key input in the woodworking industry, there is a basis for following closely the taxation of this part of the economy. Therefore, it is gratifying that an overall committee is going in to reintroduce the average equation for forest users and that the equation values for forest properties are being revised. This will provide better consistency between the screening basis and the yield for each forest owner. The Committee also notes the need to extend the area of conditional tax exemptions in the context of voluntary deforestation, as well as the relaxations in the reinvestment requirements for objects of the same nature. As a result, forest owners and timber processing industries are well taken into account in the adjustment process. I would also like to mention briefly that the Government proposes a very important change in transitional rule E to the exemption method. The change results in persons who own more than 10 pst. of the shares of an enterprise, they may be transferred to a company within the exemption method without tax realization. This solves a problem for probably several thousand business owners and results in capital not being locked up, but can be reinvested and realised within the industry without being taxed. This clearly helps to improve the tax reform of many business owners, and I think it is very positive that the entire committee is involved in this improvement. The implementation of the EU guidelines on State aid means that rigging companies currently taxed must leave the scheme from the turn of the year. This implies an increase in taxes under current legislation. I am very pleased that an overall financial committee concludes that transitional rules must be put in place in the 2006 budget, that these must mean that the tax burden does not become excessive and that equity is not unduly charged in the transitional years. Odfjell Drilling, Prosafe and Smedvig are major actors in the North Sea and employers for more than 7,000 employees. It is important that these have good framework conditions in Norway. Taking into account the tax changes made in the revised budget, total net reliefs incurred over the period 2001-2005 will amount to approximately NOK 23.5 billion. This shows that fiscal policy has undergone a robust change in price. Economic developments in industry, in the majority of the population and in the public sector confirm that this has been a successful and effective policy to reverse negative developments in the Norwegian economy in 2001. The workplaces are getting safer, people are getting better economics, and there are resources to invest in more public welfare. Much has gone in the right direction in recent years, and tax policy in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e478	For the Progress Party, taxes are a very important theme. We're the treasure tag for most people. Not only do we want lower taxes, but we also want to get a simpler and more transparent tax system. For us, no lower tax is a measure in itself, it is a means – a means of creating economic growth. We want to get as much tax relief for businesses as possible, so it'll be more profitable to invest in Norway. We also want to give tax relief to most people, so that it pays more to work, and so that one can increase the supply of work. If you create more jobs and stimulate your job supply, you will also be able to produce more goods and services in Norway, which will enable us to meet more safely in the future. We also want to reduce the cost of tax collection, and we do that best by getting a simpler tax system. The central statistical agency and many others have calculated that a lower tax rate will provide the largest income reduction for the state in 1 and 2 years, but that it can be significantly less as time goes by, because a thing to get an economic growth that one would not have achieved if one had not given tax relief. This means that tax relief can increase the amount of cake to be distributed, making it easier to finance future expenditure and welfare benefits, among others. pensions. As it looks now, it is alarming that the so-called tax reform can end up with the government implementing its proposals for tax incentives, but not for the tax administrations that were meant in the reform. Of course, that's unfortunate. Torbjørn Hansen made a number that a tax reform cannot prevent tax aggravation. Of course, that's right, but it's easy to avoid reducing taxes on wealth, if they're not reduced initially, than tightening up a tax that's gone. It's a fact I don't think it's so easy to get away from. If one had got some taxes away, it would be harder to replace them and reintroduce them. I will then be able to answer the suggestions that have been made in this setting. The first one applies to the shielding rules. Here we have repeatedly pointed out that the display rate is too low. It should be a 4-6 percentage point risk premium – we have proposed 5 pst. Of course, investing in business is a risk, and it should also reflect itself in interest rates. The display base is also a problem. As it is now, in many cases it will be viewed substantially below the actual value. It is also unfortunate because then the dividend tax will benefit more quickly. We have also pointed out earlier that deductions should be assessed. When it's about the exemption model, it has some positive sides that we're happy with. We have been critical of the fact that in many cases private shareholders come out worse than those who have invested through companies. That's why we thought the new transitional rule E was good. If one has 10 pst. in the company versus 90 pst. earlier, one can then take it into a owned company and thus avoid dividend taxes before taking it out for own consumption. When it comes to individuals, we have said that one should be paid if they could accept a stricter accounting check against not paying a dividend tax until the money is taken out of the company. This has also been pointed out by the Narf. One has done this in some other countries, Denmark, etc., and that should be possible in Norway too. We find that it is not plural for it. Under that direction, we found it positive that the payroll rule is being passed on. One of the groups we've got multiple comments from is the forest users. The actual situation is that the mound, the harvesting of forest, per. Today is much lower than the growth rate. In such a situation, maybe we should stimulate a larger output than is the case. Here, on the other hand, the majority introduces a tax that will result in lower activity, and one gets a poorer financial incentive to take out more timber. We've also gone into this with a gain on the operating method, which we've got a lot of comments on. We think they should still be taxed on capital, and we suggest it. I would also like to refer to a proposal from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party that takes this on average equations, for which a co-consultant's committee – I guess it finally – is in favour. We're saying that one should be able to choose between direct equation and mean equation for 2005. It's because there are some people who have corrected the direct equation for 2005, so they're going to have a choice. One of the provisions for dividend taxes was that the property tax should be eliminated. This is an unfortunate treasure. Most OECD countries have removed this tax. Such a tax does not stimulate saving and investment, at least it does not always stimulate the right investments and savings. So here the government has gone in order to halve him in 2006 and 2007, and then one is going to remove him. I have noted that the Government Party proposes to increase the wealth tax on working capital when it relates to the tax reform, the Workers' Party, now in the revised national budget. It's not a very positive signal, and we hope that the elections to the fall will not lead to a multiple, so that this trend continues with increasing taxes on wealth. Of course, the fact that large parts of the tax bill are only to be implemented next year after the roll-out option is not a good idea, and it is therefore exciting to see how developments continue. So in the worst case scenario, the tax reform can end up being a failure and creating insecurity for homes, homes and jobs. The rigging company has also given us some questions. It is linked to the fact that the ESA has revised its State aid guidelines for the maritime transport sector, and there have been some intensifications there. Norway is one of a few European countries with a specific rigour of importance, and we are therefore concerned that Norway should use the national space for action to propose transitional rules. We are therefore satisfied that there will be leadership in relation to this in the form of decisions. When it relates to the proposed tax treatment of foreign exchange gains, we believe that these transitional rules that have been proposed are unfortunate, and we will therefore go against the new ninth paragraph of the Tax Act §8-15. So to the Treasure Fund. We are pleased that we have had an impact that unpaid labour can give us the right to tax FUNN funds. It is important to give this retroactive effect, not only for 2002 and 2003 but also for 2004. We are also concerned that the rules are being designed as easily as possible, so that there is at least possible energy and work to enforce them. When it comes to the cost of commuters, North Sea workers and seafarers, we are pleased that we have got a reversal. It is important that the wage earners, the workers, can be mobile today, and therefore we think it was wrong to do this tax sharpening. We went against this tax tightening in our alternative state budget for 2005, we also had this as a priority requirement in the negotiations in the autumn with the government party, but we did not get through to it until now during the treatment of the revised national budget. Special exceptions for age and disability are also a point that we're happy to have achieved. All in all, we therefore believe that there is a lot of good in the changes that have been made in tax and tax legislation, although it could have been better on many points. But we'll have to do that at a later rate. Finally, I would like to include our suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e522	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e525	Today's setting is mainly a follow-up to Input. S. 232 for 2003-2004, which dealt with the large conversions of taxes treated by the Stortinge last spring. What's interesting is that both the shareholder model, the protection model and the company model, which is in this, are those parts of the tax system that contribute to a greater degree of fairness. We have had the paradoxical situation in Norway that we have flat taxes on capital, but not on labour income. Tax has now been introduced on dividends on shares, which our party has long been calling for on the basis of a fair view. And it's probably with a certain crooked smile that I'm recording that it's the Right of all the parties that are now reintroducing tax on dividend dividends. I'm satisfied with that, although this is in a modified form. Taxes on dividends on shares are fair, simply because there is no reasonableness in excluding such high incomes when revenue is not intended. The weakness of this is that it must be lubricated with great tax relief. After all, the tax reliefs in the large conversion last year amounted to DKK 10-12 billion, and there have been signs of additional billions in tax relief, especially on property taxes. This means that once again it is those who have the large assets and the large incomes to be favoured, and it means that the system itself will not contribute to more justice, even if the model is better than a model without share taxation. The shielding discount, which is also proposed, has weaknesses that we have previously pointed out, namely that the shielding discount is obtained at normal return. There are major weaknesses for start-ups and not least for enterprises with a low capital value. This may make it difficult to determine the price of such an enterprise. In general, we accept the changes that lie here, and we are not going to fight back on the tax reform as such, even though we had a disparate view of the situation the Stortinge treated last year. That means we're taking note that the bulk of the population is now changing a system, but it's clear that these great reliefs that lie here are reliefs that our party does not accept. Let me briefly also take some other issues that are affected in the setting, which are important. The first thing I want to touch is the relationship with the rigging companies. A change was originally proposed which would have resulted in high costs for the rigging companies. We are pleased that they are moving from a system in which zero tax regimes are in practice applied in the area of shipping tax to a system in which taxation is required, but we believe it is reasonable that transitional arrangements should be put in place to ensure that these companies will remain in Norway – because they have been linked to the competences and jobs of Norwegian companies. This applies mainly to three Norwegian companies with a significant number of employees in Norway and a significant competence. We are pleased that both the companies and the Stortinget also believe that the shipping tax system they have been subject to is not good enough, although it is the EU that is initially asking for that change. I am also pleased that this will happen now, but we believe that there is a reasonableness in spending a little longer time on this, so that the tax burden on companies does not become excessive. We are also pleased that the Government is now coming back with a change in the TaxFUNN for unpaid work, which the Storting has imposed on the Government a number of times, but where the Government has not followed up the Storing order. The solution that is now in this setting is, in the SV's view, a satisfactory solution, which means that a retrospective system should also be set up, so that those who have believed that such a solution would be put in place now have certainty that it will be put in place. One of the issues which has aroused the most interest in the Committee as such during the examination of this position concerns the relationship with forestry and the relationship with taxation of activities. Forestry has the peculiarity of the fact that it takes many years to get up again after it has been taken out. Many properties are small, so you can't have a continuous high impact on the use. We are pleased that an average assessment has been made over the past five years. We also believe that such a scheme must have retroactive effect for the previous fiscal year. The reason is that you have not been able to calculate the major changes proposed by the government here. We believe that the scheme found here is satisfactory for forestry, and it seems that forestry is also satisfied with it. The background to this change is the very special nature of forestry, simply because trees spend some time growing up, and that also needs to be taken into account in the tax system. The last relationship I want to touch is a proposal that does not have a majority in the vote. I would nevertheless challenge the Council of State to comment on this, for there is no reason why this proposal should not have been given a majority. This concerns the ratio of inheritance tax exemptions for cohabitants without children in common. There the Stortinget has made changes in the past, which means that when you are a cohabitant and have children in common, you get an inheritance tax exemption. This is the creation of the law that governs the position of cohabitants in relation to inheritance — that is, couples who have been cohabitants in documented, marriage-like relationships but who do not have children in common. We have now witnessed, and have seen examples of one sudden accident and the other without mutual inheritance, which you would have had in the case of a common child, or of course in the case of a married child. The Joint Committee has concluded that a two-year rule should also apply to these. Of course, the two-year rule is that you have to make sure that there is a certain connection in your community and that this is not random. The Samboercommittee concludes that such a recommendation is required. The Socialist Left Party, the Labour Party and the Center Party have addressed this relationship in the setting, because there have been some issues in particular in the last six months that have made this necessary. And then we want retrospective force. This proposal has no provenance in practice, but the few individuals who are exposed to an accident that suddenly leaves without the possibility of inheritance even if you live in a documented, marriage-like relationship – but who do not have children – are hit hard. What's my challenge to the Council of State is whether he can't look at this again, because when the Storting has now made the change associated with cohabitants with common children, there's no real reason to avoid those who don't have common children, but who are still documented cohabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e551	Today, we are putting the very last hand on the subject of tax reform. It is gratifying that there is now a broad consensus on a new and modern tax system. It provides the basis for a good and stable system for the future. The part of which there was considerable uncertainty last year when we dealt with the tax reform was tax relief for traders in participating companies and in individual enterprises. Through an additional round of investigations, models have now been developed for these companies, too, which make the tax reform holistic. I see that the most desirable thing in the first place would be a tax exemption for all companies. When you have the country that you've done today, it has good reasons, and it happens in a way that ensures the whole thing is taken care of. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to come up with good solutions for small and medium-sized enterprises. I am therefore pleased that one, in addition to the committee's proposal, has also continued a salary deduction that makes it beneficial to have people in work. The continuation of the payroll allowance has also been emphasised as particularly important by others who have been at the hearing. I think it has been important to have a good order in relation to today's forms of company, so that no one is pushed into forms of company that are not natural for the individual company. This is ultimately a good business and ownership of businesses, which secure and create new jobs. In order for this to be sustainable, it is important that the system has a good whole, and that there is a great deal of disintegration about the system in Stortinget. So this is the positive box right over here. It is gratifying that despite high-noise tax debates, the Workers' Party has chosen to support the system changes in the Government's tax reform. It gives predictability regardless of the majority of future magnification. Then I would have liked to have seen that the Workers' Party also participated in the tax adjustments, so that not the richest of the rich will still have to walk freely through the bar door. It is also true that in a country with an open window towards the world, we need tax rules that are well adapted to international conditions. That's also the case now. Last night, the IMF made a positive reference to our new tax system. That's a good promise. Today’s rules are neither adapted to the competitive situation abroad nor to the requirements imposed by EEA cooperation. The tax proposition we are dealing with today contains more issues than the follow-up to the tax communication. I want to get into one area in particular, and it's the rigging companies, who now have to get out of today's tax system because of ESA's orders. Overall, the EU has recently revised its State aid guidelines. The new legislation also requires the conversion of the Norwegian shipping tax by throwing rigs and other mobile installations out of the shipping tax system. I am pleased that an overall committee now underlines the need for transitional rules. It is important that the Norwegian rigging companies are given the opportunity to stay in Norway and further develop here. It is therefore quite right that an overall committee should go in to ask the Government in the 2006 budget to make proposals for transitional rules which take into account that the annual tax burden on the rigging companies is not excessive. It is important that the equity of the Norwegian rigging companies is not unduly charged in the transitional years. This is about three Norwegian companies, Odfjell, Smedvig and Prosafe, but it is also primarily about Norwegian jobs, skills and technology development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e572	I am disappointed and surprised at the business hostility shown by the majority in the Committee in parts of this position. I am sorry that that characteristic also includes future partners in government. At the same time, it must be the government parties that bear the primary responsibility for the absence of an overall agreement on the future fiscal policy, as was done on the pension reform. Decision-making is now under way, which does not provide predictability for business. It is only to realize that strong forces, not least within the business community, will quickly start work to amend the decisions that are now being taken. This will happen because the majority of the Storing has not taken the business seriously. I would like to quote from a joint letter from HSH, the Business Association, the Tax Payer Association, the Freight Car Association, the NARF and the Bondelag: ‘In order to remain an effective and effective alternative for small businesses in the future, it is essential for the Financial Committee to make changes in these areas.’ – Then they take some points separately. There is reason to believe that the government's lubrication in the reform, with the removal of all taxes on wealth and the halving of the top tax, will not be implemented. The centre party maintains that we give priority to reducing the abstinence of disease rather than the reduction of the top tax, and that the removal of the property tax on non-nutritive capital is not relevant to us. There could have been a solid majority for a business-friendly tax reform on the basic attitudes of the Plaza Agreement in the autumn of 2000 they were the same today. The removal of property taxes on industrial capital was then an important part of the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties. There seems to be a broad consensus that the large group of self-employed people is the worst source of tax reform. Many of them get their taxes increased, partly significantly, no matter how they deal with top taxes and wealth taxes. In total, this group counts 170 000, which will now have to consider selecting the AS form in order to obtain favourable and predictable tax conditions. It is incredible that as strong and cohesive a view from various business organisations should win as little hearing as they have done in this matter. There are microscopic improvements to the government’s proposal for a business model that will be the result today. You remove few from the taper list. The centre party believes that those who come under the new business model must retain the current special advantages and also have new specific rules that reflect the importance of very small enterprises and the particular importance of individuals for employment and housing. The centre party believes that self-employed people deserve special rules that provide more favourable taxes than those applicable to shareholders, firstly because they risk house and home if the business is in trouble, secondly because many of them are entrepreneurs and innovators – and in this group there are few who benefit from reduced top taxes and wealth taxes – and thirdly because the most active owners are not given the same opportunities to choose the tax time as passive shareholders. The amendment proposed by the Centre Party to all companies in the business model is as follows: A 5 percentage point risk supplement is added to the display rate. A fund provision scheme is introduced which, in Denmark, with a 10 year income cushioning.The proceeds from the realisation of operating resources are still taxed as capital income. So the centre party believes that forestry produces so much ring-effects where jobs are most needed, that this gives rise to special rules. In the same way as shipping is the ‘nave’ of the maritime cluster, in good and bad, Norwegian forest harvesting determines the size of the timber industries, where 30000 are currently employed. For Trøndelag it is estimated that an annual first-time value of 450 million. kr is processed to a total of 5 800 million. kr. The centre party believes in what businesses say, that when the net of the stallion is reduced by 20-30 pst. through increased taxes, total employment is reduced even more. We also believe in those who say that under improved tax conditions, the highest rate will increase, and that this is the most effective measure to increase activity and ring-fence. We believe that the Storting can't just want to increase activity. The proposal of the Centre Party provides for lower taxes on forestry, provides more work and provides a significant increase in overall tax revenue. It is strange that the Right is no longer in favour of such a dynamic tax policy, and it is strange that the Workers' Party does not see that more work will be done in this way. It is waste of the worst variety not to meet the requirements of forestry and to take the chance that unemployment will increase. The concrete proposal of the Centre for Forestry is that forestry income should be taxed at 28 p.m., as at present, and that tax exemptions should continue to be granted on sales for protection purposes. We also give subsidiary consent to reintroducing a five-year average equation, instead of a fund provision, which is our primary proposal. I would like to put forward the proposal of the Central Party in the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, which have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e620	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e623	Most of the decisions we make in this case ensure the implementation of St.meld. No 29 for 2003-2004, About tax reform, and the Government's proposals for changes to our tax system are largely implemented. Finally, as a left-wing representative, I can rejoice that the sharing model is really going to be history. A tax system has to be perceived as being as fair as possible, and that means, among other things. equal income is taxed equally, regardless of how the income is ignited. That's basically all the party some in. But when it comes to implementation, the inequalities really come to light. The left has never been the principle of tax resistance to dividends, but the combination of high dividend tax, the sharing model, as now, and our strange wealth tax will give our businesses greater tax pressure than their competitors in other countries have. This could result in thousands of Norwegian jobs being cut down. The Labour Party and the Left Party state in a note that equal incomes are more likely to be taxed and that the taxation is to be made as equal as possible, irrespective of the form of organisation. But it should be said that these two parties support the Government's proposal to reduce the tax on labour income and remove the wealth tax, just to get the most equal tax on equal income, regardless of how you view the money. For the Left, principle is important, but we're not just talking about it in party speeches, we're also trying to implement our policy in line with our principle. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party's proposals will result in those who are taxed at a higher level than today and who have the possibility of reorganising into a limited liability company or affiliate-like company. These are mainly taxpayers with millions of income. If equal incomes are to be taxed as much as possible, no questions should be asked about the industry from which it receives its income. With the sharing model, many people have adapted to pay 28 pst. tax. Our primary industries have in part had tax laws other than other economic activities. The left hand side wants all traders to be treated in the same way as possible. Our starting point was full support for the Government when it comes to the changes that razed the forest industry. We realize that these changes could lead to a decrease in activity over a period of time, from the introduction of dividend taxes to the liquidation of the property tax and the reduction of the marginal tax. We therefore support a reintroducing the average equation for forestry, but believe that other instruments than the average equation can stimulate increased activity. I refer to the extension of the forest fund scheme or the extension of the agricultural deduction to forestry. Both of these measures may be better than the reintroduction of the average equation, and they will not violate the principle of equal income being taxed as much as possible, without regard to whether they are capital income or income. I must admit that when we have listened to objections from forestry, for example. by the Norwegian Forestigar Association and the NORSKOG, and in this round reintroduces the average equation, it is a little too bad for them to require transitional arrangements by letter dated 12 June 2005 because the industry has made tax adjustments in 2005. It is precisely what should be a major point in changing tax laws, simply to ensure a tax system that provides equal taxes on equal income, and does not favour any particular industry or the way in which business organises itself. I just have to admit that with such an argument, perhaps some people might be tempted to change their position. I note that the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party have proposed this. This proposal does not support the Left. Finally, during this downtime, we have removed a total of two different taxes and taxes with some large proceeds: the investment tax and benefit tax on our own housing. This was at the top of the Left's list of what taxes should be removed. In addition, the split model was removed from the turn of the year, and we've got a flatter tax system. In other words, the left has had an impact on much of its tax policy. That's what I wanted to spend my speaking time on in the last tax debate in this ostrich.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e646	In previous debates on tax reform, and also here today, we are repeatedly told that the Workers' Party and SV are against the relief of top taxes and wealth taxes due to the distribution effects. The slogan is that these reliefs ‘give a lot to those who already have a lot’. In my opinion, this is a primitive approach to tax reform. The aim of the reform is to create a better tax system. In the old system, some people have paid too little income tax, while some groups have had an unreasonable tax burden compared to others. In short, the income tax on capital has been too low, while labour taxation has been too high. It is necessary to correct both aspects of the reform in order to give it an overall character. Before, during and after the work of the Skauge Committee, restrictions on these inequalities have been key conclusions and premises for the implementation of the reform. Therefore, it is sad that the Workers' Party and SV are not part of this overall, comprehensive development of shortcomings in the old tax system. They will only raise the level of taxation where it is low, not lower the tax rates that are too high. That these maximum tax rates only apply to some types of income, and far from all, and therefore create serious inequalities in the tax system, doesn't seem to worry about these batches. In clause 4.2 of the suspension, the Workers' Party and SV correctly agree with the principle of ‘more equal incomes being taxed in the same way and making the tax burden as much as possible independent of the form of organisation’. This principle of horizontal equality in the tax system is all reason to take it seriously. But the parties don't. In the next section, they're taking away from just the tax relief that would contribute to such an increase in equality. It's unprincipled, and it's alarming that parties that inspire government power and control of tax policy set aside the principle of equal taxes on equal incomes, almost at the dark ceiling, once it can be serious about the principle, that is, when it comes to realizing it. What are the consequences of the views of the Workers' Party and the SV? They contribute to raising the marginal tax on shareholders and members of companies up to 48 p.m., but they do not contribute to lowering the significantly higher marginal tax on wages to approximately the same level. This lack of coherence and horizontal equality in the tax system is striking, not least because it is the employees who suffer from the shortage, not the capitalists. Moreover, by adopting the business model here in Odelstinget today, the self-employed, i.e. individual enterprises, will benefit from the top tax. The views of the Labour Party and the SV also mean that these traders receive a significantly higher marginal tax than shareholders and members of companies. There is reason to ask the question: Where is the similarity of taxes to equal incomes regardless of the form of organisation? I refer to my previous quote from the comments of the Workers' Party and SV. Nor does it seem to worry about these batches that such differences will lead to significant reorganisations of business and business activity. Of course, those affected by the higher level of taxation, who can reorganise into a limited company or incorporated company, will do so, so as to fall below the low level of taxation of well 48 p.m. This will apply not least to the millions of income that the Workers' Party and SV want to target with their tax policies and rhetoric. The reorganisations will make this policy partially ineffective and create new inequalities between those who can and those who cannot reorganise their income. Where is the justice of a system where it is not just an unlocked kitchen door into the lower tax level, but an open door? The government's justification for mitigating the taxes on wealth is that it operates in a distorted manner and that, on the one hand, the increase in the tax on capital through the shareholder model, the participating model and the business model necessitates such a damping. The consequence of keeping the wealth tax unchanged, as the Workers' Party and SV will, will continue to be major inequalities and biases, among others. disparate valuation. Furthermore, business owners are overburdened by increased income taxes and unchanged taxes on wealth. I hope that the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party will gradually come up with better ideas regarding the merger of a comprehensive tax reform. Many important steps are now being taken, but still important steps remain after the autumn elections. For the stability of fiscal policy in the future, there will be a great advantage if this whole of the tax reform can also be implemented among the opposition's parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e671	The Minister of Finance is fully aware that the tax reform we had under consideration in the last year, and this follow-up we have today, the system change and the models, the government parties and the Right have negotiated their agreement with the Workers' Party. Then came the Minister of Finance's classic Right posts, which we've heard at least throughout the post-war period, about tax reliefs to those who have the most from before. The Minister of Finance must be able to hear that! When people with over 1 million. kr, yes, up to 1,5 mill.–2 mill. kr in income, gets 10–15 times more tax relief than those who have a normal income, it is clear that we react to it and have counter-conceptions! In addition, we know how income is distributed between public and private consumption. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question: in the tax reform there was, among other things, a question. eight deductions to finance tax reliefs. Will he return to the harvest with tax reliefs to be financed by the commuting deduction and the special deduction for expropriation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e680	Budgetary leakages are not provided from the Spokesman’s Chair, so the answer to that question is not given — in line with usual practice. I like to hear a fiscal argument, but I can't stand to hear it false! It is not right that the Workers' Party's tax arrangements will bring justice. It will increase the injustice of the system because your ability to influence your tax rate depends on the type of organisation you choose. For ordinary employees, there is no option. To put it this way: this is a big consul hole created by the Workers' Party in the system, which I don't realize you can defend!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e687	The President will note that the epitome of "false" is on the edge of what you can say from Odelsting's pulpit, and asks the Council of State to find other expressions next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e690	I note that the Minister of Finance refers to the fact that the Labour Party does not want tax credits and is also in favour of tax incentives. It also shows the revision of the national budget, which includes: enters and increases the taxes on wealth on working capital. It's very unfortunate. This makes it even more advantageous to own Norwegian industry from abroad than to own Norwegian industry in Norway. Now, the Labour Party is the government party when it comes to the tax reform, and there was a support from the Workers' Party to increase the dividend tax. Then a postponement to the next period is to make the tax breaks that are in the tax reform. My question to the Minister of Finance is, Wouldn't it be to gamble with the implementation of these tax havens? Why can't a multiple for a larger part of the tax bill be guaranteed while a multiple in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e699	That is basically because the Progress Party has not made a special contribution! Let me say it this way, and it is no big secret – it has been said in public space before – that during the last budgetary negotiations there was no demand from the Progress Party to increase the reduction in the wealth tax. There was also no demand from the Progress Party to increase the cut in top taxes – rather on the contrary, it was reduced in line with the Government's proposal. So I don't understand the background of the question. Of course, it would have been better if we had managed to implement the reform without regard to elections. But to put it like this, it's a form that's alien to our constitution. We're betting that the voters will actually trust that this tax reform will be continued by the parties that have introduced it. I hope that the Progress Party will gradually join the tax reform, even though in many ways in the early stages of the reform, they joined the debate and wanted a so-called flat tax – plains, or whatever it might be. This tax reform will contribute to what the Progress Party wants, namely a reduction in marginal taxes and a reduction in property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e706	I note that the Minister of Finance is in election mode now, even before the summer. So he used his whole speech to talk about the tax policy of the Workers' Party and the SV, and called it alarming – 'primitive approach', he even used as a concept of our tax policy! It'll be on his account. I'm not going to pick up that glove today. I thought I could challenge him on what I challenged him on in my post, namely, inheritance related to cohabitants who don't have children in common. The size has cleaned up in one ratio here; cohabitants with documented cohabitation who have common children. But for those who don't have a common child, the Stortinget hasn't cleaned up, even though the Samboercommittee recommended this. The reason why we're dealing with this now in this setting is that we've had a couple of examples through the spring related to major natural disasters where some families have been suffering unreasonablely. We want this change to have happened and got a retrospective effect. I would strongly encourage the Council of State to come back to this in the state budget submitted until the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e716	I am pleased that I was given the opportunity to answer this question. The government announced in the family communication a further extension of the cohabitation fee exemption. However, it is important that this is carefully assessed, so that there is consistency between different laws. The commoner concept currently used in the Inheritance Tax Act is the same as in the People's Security Act. In addition, cohabitation is concerned, inter alia, with: of family and tax laws, etc. It is important to strike a balance here between rights and obligations for those living together without paper and unregistered. We're working on this, and we've notified a further relaxation. But I would like to repeat that it is important that such legal work does not take place by tabloid methods – that is, read the paper, some are affected – but that it is done on a holistic basis, so that the concept of cohabitation is uniform in different laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e723	The Minister of Finance has said that with today's rates we have a doorway of adaptability for self-employed and highly paid people. They will withdraw their employee income as capital income. The social security charge is a payment for social security benefits. If we ignore the social security fee, 40 pst will be paid. in marginal taxes on compensation of employees between 350000 kroner and 800000 kroner. Over 800000 kroner is the marginal tax on wages and salaries 43.5 pst. That's 950 million. kr that enters through step 2. 80 000 people pay on average NOK 12 000 for which each individual earns, in the opinion of the Minister of Finance, if they have to pay a peak tax of 2 today. The government says that taxes on capital income will be 48 pst, i.e. higher than wages, if you ignore the social security tax. Is this the threat from the Minister of Finance that the Minister of Finance believes that income from capital will in practice receive less tax than 48 pst.? Or is it that rich people are not concerned with securing reasonably good pension and social security rights, and that they count social security contributions as taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e732	I think that in most tables with which the representative Lund also operates, the social security tax is part of the tax system and part of the tax burden. I have not said that it is today's rates that open such a door, but that is the consequence of the rates that the Workers' Party and SV have agreed to. I understand that the Center Party wants to govern with these parties on the premises of these parties also in the tax policy. When I quote from the position, where it says that ‘equal income is taxed more equally and that the tax burden is made as much as possible independent of the form of organisation’, it is a quote that I agreed with, but that is not followed up in practice in the setting, because then something has to be done, both reducing taxes and at the same time increasing the tax on dividends when dividends are charged for private consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e739	Tax bills and foresight are right-wing mantras. Then the Minister of Finance is busy with justice. I am, too, but it's possible that we define fairly a little bit different, depending on who it is. I think that all those who got tax incentives, that's for commuters, North Sea workers, i.e. ordinary workers, don't feel it's fair for them to join in and finance the tax haven for the richest. It was simply what the Right added, and they were supported by the Progress Party. Is it true that those who are commuters, those who cannot stay where they work, but who have to travel for their work, can expect that they will also have custody in the future, and that the Right will not bring new tax reinforcements for these ordinary workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e750	I also remember that the Workers' Party has on a number of occasions asked that we simplify the tax system and remove a series of deduction schemes that do not work equally between taxpayers. This applies, inter alia, to: taxation of diets. The size has now taken a decision amending the previous tax decision in this area, but it reintroduces an inequality in the taxation of diets for different workers. Justice or none, but at least it's not the same for similar cases. What surprises me most, however, is that the Workers' Party will set up a system that allows consultants who organise their labour income through a limited company to obtain a lower tax rate than an employee with the same income can do. At least it's not justice, and it's not about giving tax relief to those who already have the most, as the government's proposal is described. It is actually the Workers' Party that is now doing the same thing, but subject to being a consultant and being able to set up its own company.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e757	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e762	The background to my taking the floor was the Minister of Finance's answer to my question, where he among other things. said he did not understand the question. I have to point out that at least there are many in the business community who understand the problem that was raised, and who are concerned that one can get a result where there are several tax asses, but that one does not get a multiple for the tax asses, if the collapse option to the cottage gives another multiple in the Storting. In the case of the 2005 State Budget and the entry of the Progress Party for a less light tax than proposed by the Government, that is correct. But it was because we wanted a better social profile, and there were too small tax credits for those with low and medium incomes compared to the ones that were proposed to them with the really high incomes. It gave a social impact page that was a profile that the Progress Party couldn't be on. So we went in and demanded that it be easier for those with low and medium incomes. Then it became a little less easy for those with high incomes, but all of them got huge taxes. In the case of property taxes, it should be clear to most that the Progress Party wants to remove it. We also stated clearly that if we were to consider some form of dividend tax, we would have to have clear assurances about and a clear progress in the liquidation of the property tax. We didn't get that. We could not therefore support the introduction of a dividend tax. Although we should have considered supporting a proposal for a dividend tax, it also had to have been improved at a very large number of points in relation to what is happening today. We have previously proposed removing taxes on wealth. We haven't got any plurals for that. It is clear in our party programme, and we will also be in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e775	Several speakers have pointed out that one of the objectives of the tax reform is to ensure greater equal treatment of real labour income by reducing the difference in rates between taxes on labour income and taxes on capital return. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left also agree that this is desirable. But when it comes to practical and executive policies, you separate layers of government parties. The right considers that the marginal tax needs to be reduced by the downward adjustment of the peak tax. No one should pay more than half of what you earn, in taxes, whether it comes from work or capital. The working party and SV will not reduce taxes on labour income. They distance themselves from the tax havens that will help to increase this equality. On the other hand, those who have been involved in the suspension will strengthen the progressiveness of the tax system. The working party also says in its programme for the next ageing period: «taxation between labour and capital is evened out in such a way that those with high capital income pay more taxes» SV says in its application: «proposal to increase the tax on capital» So these are programs that apply to the next period, that's the one that comes after this period. So you have two questions about the politics of these parties, as I see it. Either these two parties want employees and self-employed persons who run individual enterprises on the one hand to pay much more in taxes than shareholders and members of companies on the other hand, or they want to increase the tax on capital income, so that it gets well over 50 pst., perhaps closer to 60 pst. Maybe they even go in to introduce a progressive element in this capital tax, as they say in the position. It would not have been so stupid to get answers to these questions today. What can we expect with any red-green government for the autumn? Do you want equal treatment by reducing taxes on persons, or do you want equal treatment by increasing taxes on capital? Or do you want different treatments? It could be. I wonder why the Workers' Party does not propose to remove the entire discount on shares, securities and certificates of basic funds when, as they themselves say, it provides relief to groups with high incomes and large assets. Why just care about reducing it from 35 pst. until 25 pst.? I wonder why you don't take the whole discount as well, when you say that it actually brings relief to high-income groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e794	I would like to make a few considerations at the end of this debate, which is probably the last tax debate of importance in this majority period. The council says that the social security tax is to be regarded as a tax. Of course, that's how most people experience it, but it has a completely different character in the tax system. Let me just take a parallel to what the Storting recently treated that went on retirement. The government parties stressed there as a special point that a pension tax is different from a general tax. That means that the Council of State has no consistency in its argument about this. This means that with equal treatment of tax rates initially, social security contributions are an important premise. One assumes a different premise in this than one does for self-employed people. Of course, you can adapt. There are many adjustments in a tax system, for those who wish. To close all the tax holes I think is very difficult. Participation in this security network in the welfare country, in which the social security charge is co-financed, is one of the main concerns of many. Humans are like mono-man animals. Many may be, but probably most people will also see that there is a point in participating in this fissure layer that, of course, the welfare state is actually. That's what you're going to gain from. There are several people who have asked what SV had to think about taxes. Let me say the following: it says in our alternative state budget what SV thinks about taxes. We're not in favour of lowering the property tax, just so it's very clear. The property tax is currently the progressive element of capital taxation. So we have the paradoxical system today that ordinary employee income has progressiveness and relatively high tax rates, while taxes on capital do not. That's where the wealth tax comes in as part of what they with the greatest wealth are going to contribute to the community. To remove this, of course, is getting a terrible gross social impact. It is not without reason that the people who have the greatest wealth in Norway, who make the biggest contribution to the Right election campaign, have the direct joy of removing the wealth tax. Of course, you will contribute to the Per-Kristian Foss case, because it will do them well in itself. The property tax has obvious weaknesses. That's right. But removing the wealth tax contributes to a greater social injustice and a less equitable tax system. The tax system must be based on social justice, the greatest contribution of all. This is not done with the capital tax system that is now being introduced, because the shielding discount means that you have to have relatively large dividends before taxing dividends. In theory, the tax system looks very fine, because the tax rates are somewhat harmonised, but in practice it will still be that those with large capital incomes do not pay at much as much tax in percent as those who have normal employee income taxes. SV is therefore very clear that the property tax must remain. It should probably be reviewed to correct some obvious weaknesses in the wealth tax system, but property tax is a good and fair system for the whole of the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e807	The Minister of Finance said in reply to me that with today's tax rates there are no barge doors of adaptability, but it may be if there is a change of government. The right-wing representative said, as the Council of State said earlier, that with today's tax rates it is such a barge. It was said earlier in the debate that it is terrible how business is treated today at today's rates. 300000 kroner can be saved by adjusting. In fact, there are $12,000 on average paid by those who have step 2. 80,000 people are the ones who pay it. Please don't exaggerate, it's not the case that this is so problematic. I don't think so many people will take advantage of the adaptability. So the council says that the social security tax is tax. The Pension Commission proposed a pension tax of 17 p.m. and may still be considered. By such a decision, people are informed that it is paid through social security, which is simply a pension security. It's payment for something you get back. If you adjust, you don't get it. I think a finance minister should explain to people just this: Social security is payment for something. If you evade the social security fee and pay as if this were capital income, you lose an offer from the public. I think that should be a task for a finance minister. The centre party will not have such a development that all companies must become AS. So does Minister of Finance Foss say that. We must not be discriminated against which everyone must adapt to an AS. But business says that with what is now adopted, that's exactly what's going to happen. Several companies have to say that individual enterprises also have to become AS. They've said what they're expecting from changes. They have said that you have to have a risk charge, because for those who are individual enterprises, it is different that they risk simply house and home. They risk a lot more than others. They have said that we need to reduce the wealth tax now, and if we can't remove all of it, we have to take away what's involved in taxes on wealth on working capital. That is what the Central Party has proposed. We can take that step now, and then we can create predictability for business by introducing the model that Sweden introduced for all business life from 1997 and with which they believe they have good experience. I think we in Norway could also create such good and predictable conditions for our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e823	I think it was the representative Heidi Larssen who asked about the future of the tax policy of the Workers' Party, whether there will only be tax increases. We've never said that. I also pointed out to the Minister of Finance that in terms of the system conversion, we have agreed, because we see that it is important to have system conversions that can be fixed over time, that we know the framework conditions for both individuals and businesses. We have said that the total tax revenue should be around 2004 levels. That is what we have said. It's right there. But what we've been reacting to all along, and that also has to be the right-hand side, is just the distribution of these taxes, which we think can be profoundly unfair. We have seen this in the last year's budget and, in part, now also revised. It cannot be seen as fair when, with the highest incomes, they receive the highest tax reliefs, which we react to. Even the Progress Party reacted to this in the autumn and said that enough is enough. It was the top entry point for the top tax. Among other things, we had to: also raise the bottom subtractions and do not lower that point. Even they did. People don't understand this. We need a tax system that people can live with and have a certain understanding of, and that not only benefits the individual groups. In addition, when we see that tax relief is financed by what was proposed but now fortunately put in reverse – deduction for commuters, for seafarers, special deductions for those with high health costs, etc. – it is clear that we react when we see this in context. In the autumn we got a VAT increase in addition – it has to do with distribution in total. We are going to prejudice that in future in our fiscal debates and in the decisions we are going to make in the future in this area. I can go even further in the way these tax breaks are financed. Why should the working days of the unemployed be increased to five days? Why should the unemployed who have normal incomes in Norway not receive holiday pay? It'll be cut at over $200,000 a year. These are the ones that need the money, and not the ones that make 1.5 or 2 million. kr. The right-hand side and the right have to resist being reminded of these things, that this is not a fair tax system. Not only do you have to hang out in models all the time, but it's also important where the bets are set.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e835	The representative Lund was referring to my example of the doorkeeper in the Workers' Party's tax administration. It is true that this does not apply to several hundred thousand workers, but there are a few thousand very well paid workers in Norway. My example was based on the tax rates requested by the left-hand side for 2004, set against the shareholder model. If you move 3 million, you can move 3 million. kr in income from the type of employee taxation into a limited liability company, save NOK 374 000. It is true that when you do that, you get out of the social security system, but I think most lawyers, consultants and advisers would prefer to save NOK 374 000 in taxes and rather buy a private pension insurance rather than stand as an employee. It is clear that such adaptability will be used by all those who have the opportunity to organise themselves in this way. That means that the left-hand side removes the divisional model, which is fundamentally unfair, without adapting the system to it. Many examples of this might be seen, for example. in the media, when you describe how people can adapt to such a loophole if you maintain it in an imaginary situation where you get the opportunity to influence the tax system. Then Djupedal's representative was in on the property tax. In the alternative to the tax system, SV has dropped the shielding discount in the shareholder model. This will mean that people with bank deposits will also receive such a high tax, and it will actually mean that pensioners in Norway today will have over 100 pst. effective taxation of their interest income. I think that's a little daring, and I think the pensioners too would have thought if they had been aware of what SV has proposed here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e842	Girmund Hageseter has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e845	I would like to make a few comments on what the representative Nordtun had to say when he said that even the Progress Party reacted to the tax payments of the state budget for 2005. That's right, but there's still a fundamental difference between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, because it wasn't primarily the tax credits of the high pay we reacted to. We reacted to the lack of tax havens for those with lower and medium incomes. That is what was our starting point in the negotiations. It is not possible to give large tax credits to the rich when one does not give tax credits to those with normal incomes at all. We got that profile turned around, and we're very proud of it. Estimates also show that reducing the tax on the lowest income will also increase the supply of labour in these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e852	The representative of Nordtun said that the Workers' Party had agreed on the tax reform so far. However, in the view of the government parties, this tax reform is not entirely until one of the main elements, namely the reduction and gradual elimination of taxes on wealth, has been implemented. This has to be viewed as a whole. The property tax is a special tax on ownership and capital that prevents the creation of new jobs and inhibits Norwegian value creation. I think it's a little strange that the Workers' Party doesn't see the challenges you have in the globalized world in relation to this, and agrees with the government parties in terms of this strange tax. Otherwise, the Workers' Party is busy – and cut, to say the least – of the challenges of living in a globalised world. But here they can't quite follow. So I wonder if you've been too suspended not to give tax relief to those who, according to the Workers' Party, 'have most of the time', so that securing Norwegian jobs is actually put at risk on the basis of it, that you are kind of being so suspended in one thing that you don't think that this can actually go beyond Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e861	I can fully agree with the representative Larssen that if a tax system is to be forward-looking, it must also be adapted to the environment, so that we cannot escape either one way or the other of jobs and the establishment of companies where they are. This must be under constant monitoring and control. But that's not the wealth tax we currently see as the most important thing to do with. Now there are other conversions that have also been prioritised from our side. Among other things, I can say that we have no plans at all to reintroduce the housing tax – not at all. But I can go a little further on that particular system and ask: does it seem that the setting of the equation values of the properties in Norway today is correct? Not at all. That there will be no rebellion when we can see that two houses listed the same year have the same standard etc. – and where the house owners can sit and look at each other in the living room window – have different equivalency because the houses happen to be located in two different municipalities! This is because we have not grasped the tariff base and therefore do not have a proper tariff system in Norway. The day we can get a proper fare system in place, there should be a lot of adjustment, both in one way and the other, including property taxes, because taxes on property are something the other – I was saying – the world has got a much better grip on and a much fairer tax system for. Property cannot be moved. That's why it's important that we get a fair system, and that not, as today, capital is invested in property only because there's much less taxation and more difficult to get into – much less taxation, and it goes to less productive work. If we had turned this over to more productive work in the companies, it would have been much better than placing the money in real estate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e870	No more words have been asked. [[Footing, see page 1104]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e886	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1115]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e902	At the request of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President of the case, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replication of the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e909	Odelstinget has for treatment Ot.prp. No 84 for 2004-2005. It is based on the suspension of the so-called Democratic Finance Committee, which was handed over to the Council of State last year. The new law will replace the law in force, which is the law of 22 May 1998 No. 30 on the revenue of political parties. It's a collective committee that's behind most of the issues in the new party law. The main features of it can be summarised briefly as follows: Transfer of the provisions on the registration of lots to a separate party law.Regulation of the support schemes for political parties in the form of law, i.e. the public aid, the private aid and the public access requirement in these circumstances. It is worth noting that the law regulates matters at all political levels, including youth organisations. Establishment of an independent title to allocate State aid, deal with complaints and report to the Ministry. The political parties are important social institutions, many of which deal with, and which have the media's spotlight on them. A separate party law creates clearer conditions around the regulation of the activities of the parties, and the creation of an independent denominator contributes to this. It's a unanimous committee that joins it. A central part of the work on the new lot law has been on the revenue of the lots. It is positive that a unanimous committee believes that public funding for political parties is desirable and necessary, while allowing private contributions. The model of public funding now proposed by the Committee has essentially a unanimous committee behind it. There will be clear requirements for which lots and lists are eligible, while at the same time the responsibility for supporting batches locally is transferred to local authorities and included in the framework grant. A model with a basic grant and a vote grant to the political parties is introduced and earmarked grants to the lots are included in the free support. Private contributions to political parties will continue to be allowed. A majority of the Committee also advocates the introduction of a tax deduction for such gifts. There is broad agreement on important changes in the disclosure of the revenues of political parties. Revenue above a certain level shall be published at municipal, county and national level for all batches. This will be the main instrument against corruption and unfortunate ties between batches and donors. This is a great step forward, after too many rounds of this past that have not led forward. It is to hope that the change will give election campaigns that are less marked by speculation about gifts of money and more marked by the certainty about it. It is also positive that an overall committee follows up the Council of Europe's recommendations to ban gifts from anonymous donors, foreign donors and legal entities under public authority. The Committee further states that the publication of gifts shall relate to both monetary and non-monetary contributions and all agreements relating to donations of funds shall be made public. The representatives of the SV in the Committee are well pleased with the main content of the vote, but in three points they will address questions which, in our view, should be different. When deciding to publish gifts of money — and even to say that this should be the main instrument of anti-corruption and unlucky commitments — the Committee should be instructed to require the parties to publish all gifts before elections, as regulated in many other countries. This is an important principle. The voters should know when they go to the polls who financed the various parties. Then they can ‘punish’ those parties that have received gifts they do not like. That's how openness can become a fully effective weapon against corruption. I have heard two arguments against this proposal. The Democratic Finance Committee writes that it can lead to too much attention around gifts. I think that's the opposite, that openness prevents speculation and unwanted attention to what's really happening. Some claim that this will be the creation of a new, big bureaucracy. All the time an overall committee goes into setting up an independent denominator to allocate the aid, and we already have an income reporting at a later stage, this is impossible to understand. It is not a big and complicated task, and at least it should not stand in the way of an important principle. There are practical challenges to this proposal as all other rules, but they are small and manageable in relation to the importance of the principle. Most of the hearing bodies that have expressed their views have also agreed to this, for example: KS and Oslo Municipality. It is positive that the Committee encourages all batches to publish information on gifts on their own on an ongoing basis. A majority believes this is better than an obligation to do it. I would encourage each party from this pulpit to make it clear that the party will follow this, and that a full overview of all gifts to the party received before the election will be available to the media and the population before the election takes place. SV has also raised the issue of regulating contributions from legal entities providing goods or services to the public administration. This is one of the recommendations made by the Council of Europe to Norway. Contributions to political parties from actors competing at the same time for supplies to the public can create uncertainty as to the extent to which political parties are unhindered. There have been several cases in Norway where operators have been involved in tendering or have provided services to the public at the same time as they give money to a party that makes decisions about the same. SV agrees with the Council of Europe, but will clarify that the amount limit must be relatively high and that a thorough effort must be made to make border crossings. However, we expect the ministry and the parties to follow developments in this area closely. Finally, I would like to conclude that some parties' local and county teams have incomes from so-called slot machines. The situation of the parties in Norway is that they are guaranteed sound basic public funding. In addition, good arrangements are in place for the income and contributions of both members and sympathizers. On the basis of this, I find it incomprehensible that several of the parties still see themselves profited from financing themselves with income from slot machines. In dealing with the so-called Lottery Act, all parties expressed great concern about the personal and social problems of gambling. I wonder that while all parties recognize these serious problems, none of the other parties want to express that this is a problematic way of financing their own business. In this context, I believe there is a long way between life and learning. To quote The Daily on Sunday: «Parties that allow their local teams to reduce blood money in this way undermine their confidence in the policy.» We have also seen today a notice that the Left will now exit the slot machines. But there are different attitudes locally and centrally, and the left says they don't have the ability to instruct the local laws. However, today there is a proposal in connection with the setting where the Left has the opportunity to vote in favour of a proposal which makes it impossible for local teams to have such revenues. I would encourage both the Left and the other parties to bring this unculture to life and vote in favour of the SV's proposal, and take a settlement with this policy today. I'm dealing with the proposal we have alone, and what we are with others about in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e963	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e966	This case has a long history. It has been several years since the Stortinget adopted rules on the publication of gifts to the central party members. Unfortunately, we left a big hole at the time, all the gifts to the local party members. This meant that anyone could give anonymous, or at least in secret to the public, large amounts of funds at the level of the assembly or the local level of the batch organisations without being subject to publication requirements. Twice before, during this growing period, we have considered proposals from the Workers' Party on intensification. Unfortunately, it has not been given a majority, but now we finally have to pass a law that closes the hole. Then, of course, we can discuss where the limit will go, but here we have put our hands on what the Committee on Democracy's funding has done. The rapporteur made a clear statement on the content of what we have done and, in general, the Committee is in favour of what the Government has proposed, which is based on the vote of the Democratic Finance Committee. The working party has joined it. We also put in the sample and feel the obligation to follow up what was presented there. That is why we only want to comment briefly on some of the proposals from the minority, first of all the proposal to extend the obligation to publish the revenue of the parties on 1 September of the election year. That's a good idea. The problem with it is that it is too easy to bypass it. It is the easiest thing in the world to agree with contributors that the money can be entered into the account in October instead of in August, and therefore we believe that such a scheme for the parties who might want to keep gifts hidden until the election will be very easy to circumvent. However, concealing them from the accounts when they arrive becomes very difficult. But at the same time, we stop to the invitation to publish gifts on an ongoing basis. That's what the Working Party does. We want full publicity, and if there are any transfers of funds that are public, it must be the warm support of the trade union movement for the Workers' Party. The Party proposes that organisations which receive direct or indirect public support should not be able to give gifts to the parties. We also think that is a very special proposal. For example, it will. This means that associations around the country cannot provide support to local party organisations. This means that the Norwegian Shipowners' Association, which is well supported by a relatively large amount of indirect support through very special tax rules, can no longer provide support to the Progress Party, which is used to provide, etc. Another example is the Handicap Association. Any organisation receiving some form of support is then prevented from providing that type of support. That would be a wrong principle. It must be that when organisations receive public support, they decide for themselves how to use that money. There has also been a discussion about enterprises and others participating in large public tendering. It is clear that it raises important and fundamental issues: how can one be sure that such gifts do not affect a tendering process? You can imagine a small municipality where there are two entrepreneurship companies, and one makes a warm and big contribution to the country's ruling party, and the other does not. Is it possible to be sure that such gifts do not affect the political decision-making process in purely economic matters with regard to the municipality? However, we have come to the conclusion that transparency must be the most important instrument in this context, and hope that it will be sufficient to bring clarity and cleanliness to that kind of relationship. All in all, that's a good law we're adopting now. Some changes are also made in the financing of the lots in the case of different aid schemes, which affect the level of aid granted by the lots. The Democratic Finance Committee allocated the amount to approx. Ten million. kr, which the Committee notes must be compensated for in the submission to the State budget for 2006 for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e979	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough statement on the matter and on the Committee's position. Transparency about the funding of political parties is the main objective of the new Party Act Government has promoted. Right is satisfied that there is broad agreement on the main principles of the law. It also reflects the broad consensus of the Democratic Finance Committee, where all parties were represented. The government has followed up most of the selection proposals, proposals dealing with both funding rules and rules for public transparency in the funding of political parties. The chairman of the Democratic Finance Committee, Rune J. Sørensen, said in a chronicle in the April 27th this year: ‘Money plays an increasing role in the struggle of the parties for election opening.’ This is right-wing agreement, and we have therefore been concerned that there should be full transparency about gifts, agreements and contributions, both because it gives voters the opportunity to form a precise idea of any relationship between money and politics, and also because full transparency is the best weapon against unacceptable bonds, corruption and abuse of power. The right has for a long time continuously published the gifts and contributions received. I am very pleased that the entire committee has joined our remark and the call for all political parties to introduce continuous publication of gifts and contributions to avoid any unfortunate speculation. Now it remains to be seen whether this is being followed up in practice by the other parties as well. It is important that the democratic system is built in such a way that it maintains high credibility in the population. State aid to the parties, combined with the parties' ability and willingness to increase self-financing, is one of several mechanisms to ensure party political independence in relation to different non-profit and private interests as well as to the State. The right considers it important to increase the level of self-financing of the parties and that it is not desirable to prohibit or restrict contributions from organisations and other contributors. It is an important democratic right to organise and work for its interests and wants for social development. Organisations, institutions and individuals must themselves have the freedom to choose the activities they consider to contribute to the objectives of the organisation, including giving gifts to political parties, but it must be fully transparent and transparent. Right supports the Government’s proposal that a general ban on contributions to political parties from enterprises providing goods and services to the public should not be imposed. Norway has a large public sector. This means that the public sector is not just an attractive customer. It also implies that most of our small and large enterprises and companies will at some point deliver some kind of goods and services to the public sector at some level. A ban would in practice mean that small and large enterprises would not have the opportunity to contribute to political parties. It would be contrary to the unanimous recommendation of the Democratic Finance Committee that the parties should become less dependent on the State and that they should increase their self-financing. The right will stress that there is reason to follow developments in this area. Transparency of gifts to the parties at all levels of organisation, as proposed and endorsed by the Government, could help to clarify the possible need for further regulation in the future. All, with the exception of the SV and the Workers' Party, subscribe to the views of the Democratic Finance Committee and the Government that deductions of income for gifts to the political parties will provide citizens with strong incentives to participate in the financing of the party democracy. The income-deduction scheme is one of several measures we would like to welcome to increase the parties' self-financing and make them less dependent on government grants. An income deduction will help more people to choose to support the batches. As a result, contributions to the political parties will spread across several donors and the possibility of dependence on a few contributors will be reduced. It considers that the right is important and is therefore satisfied that there is a majority in favour of introducing income deductions for gifts to the political parties. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that there is now a broad support for the principle of full transparency in the financing of the political parties. I think we've now got a law that's predictable, and that's going to last over time, and we all think that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1008	Ideally, political parties should be funded by membership quotas, gifts, collections or bamboo otters, but Norway has no culture for large private contributions. We have a good system of public contributions to the parties, which is mainly based on the opening up of the parties, and this has been accepted by the Progress Party. At the same time, we also say and are very clear that it is good that the parties are able to increase the level of self-financing. We don't agree with SV, which seems to think that everything that comes from public, and everything that comes from LO, is OK, while everything that comes from ordinary people or businesses is dangerous things. We're very pleased that we've got a majority who say yes to tax deductions for gifts to political parties. We think this might have a dispersal effect in that more people can contribute to the political parties. Although we are advocating increased self-financing, the possibility of giving gifts, tax exemptions, etc., we also stress that this must be accompanied by transparency. There must also be a clear and clear fight against corruption. Corruption has to be hard hit, whether it's in bureaucracy or it's in political parties. Fortunately, Norway is relatively cautious about this type of issue, but we have to be obsessive, so that we do not get into the situations that some other countries have been in. In the Progress Party, we are happy to accept gifts. We have also often done so, but never – never – against conditions. We don't change our policy, and we're not going to buy political, no matter how much we get in gifts. We're not there like some other parties. I have registered, inter alia: several times in this Chamber, that labour party tops, in particular the representative Giske, have criticised the Right, the Advance Party, etc. to receive gifts. I've never quite understood that, because I've never seen it prove that the Right Party or the Advance Party has changed its policy as a result of gifts. What I have seen, however, is that the Workers' Party has done it over and over again. Both in individual positions and in the form of major agreements that have been concluded, the LO has been allowed to steer the policy – so far that the LO bosses have actually been introduced into the central government to govern the party. I think you might want to go quietly in the doors when you actually have a policy that has been bought and paid. So to the SV's proposal that political parties should not receive income from slot machines. Morally speaking, the representative Magnar Lund Bergo is quite right. I cannot understand how the parties in this Chamber can be as critical as you have been to slot machines, and yet make a lot of money on them. I'm against the ban myself, and the Progress Party has gone against the strict line and monopoly of slot machines that the majority have set up, but it seems that when the money flows in, it's not very careful what morality you put on. The Progress Party has a longer specific focus in the case of organisations that have special transfers from the public, or direct or indirect benefit decisions by the public. This is not about the Federation of Shipowners, which the representative Giske drew out, but about some other organisations, such as the Swedish Shipowners' Association. organisations to which he is closely associated. We think it is and should be problematic if you are in a situation where you can give money to the parties that are responsible for the special arrangements that individual organisations have. So we want to get rid of this kind of thing. With this, I will put forward the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1030	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1033	The work of the Government and the Stortinget on the Party Act is underpinned by a thorough investigation by the Democratic Finance Committee. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that most of the selection's conclusions have been followed up by the Government and have now also received broad support in the Committee. The rapporteur has given a good account of this. Government grants to the parties are an important prerequisite for a good and knowledgeable societal debate. A representative democracy requires comprehensive and competing policy options. Societal developments are characterised by significantly increased demands on the parties as precursors in the societal debate. It is then important that the parties can continue to receive public support, so that they do not depend unilaterally on private gifts. It may not be the case that lots are afraid not to be taken as a resource-intensive group of fears of losing their income base. The amendments proposed by the Democratic Finance Committee with regard to the subsidy scheme for the political parties aimed at increasing the proportion of the grant to the very smallest parties. This was certainly a correct decision. However, the change could result in a reduction of the grant to other parties. Overall, the loss would be estimated at 10 million. kr. Against this background, the sample proposed that the loss be offset by an increase in the grant scheme from the year of the reform. A collective committee has joined this in the setting, and it's Christian People's Party satisfied with it. It is important to ensure recruitment and training so that a competent political leadership can be established at any time. Here youth organisations have an important role to play. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Ministry's proposal that support for youth organisations at county level be given over a separate post on the state budget. In this way, the budgetary documents will show the level of grants to the parties’ county organisations and the level of grants to the parties’ youth organisations at the level of the country. Thus, the budgetary system for the counties is harmonised with the current system for the parties' youth organisations at the central level. The Christian People's Party is pleased that an overall committee believes that transparency should be the primary weapon against corruption and against unacceptable ties in the funding of the political parties. The new rules will extend the transparency of the financing of the parties. The batches and batches are required to submit income accounts to a central public register in the Statistical Central Bureau, which in turn publishes this information on the Internet. Both pure gifts of money and other contributions to the lots must be declared in order to enable the public to see where the various lots are supported. Any agreement between the parties and their contributors shall also be transparent. The Democratic Finance Committee's suspension has been named Money Counter, but it's decided. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the bill adopted today ensures that it will also be so in the future. We must avoid Stein Rokkan's opinion of 1964 that «Voice counts, but resources decide» is indicative of the development of the Norwegian political system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1052	There is cross-political agreement at many key points in party laws, but some have different approaches to the party funding system. It's a fact that with the greatest self-sequence there will be multiples for public funding of the political party in Norway also in the future. There are not, of course, many other places in the world. Unfortunately, democracy has not got its foothold anywhere, and in many places there is no political party as we know them. Other places are the political party, but the parties have a funding that is completely different and more fundamental in a private way. The private funding of political parties and elections has rightly created a regrettable gap between the people and the politicians and have contributed to the suspicion that politicians and political decisions can be purchased by high-buyer groups. That is what we are preventing with the public funding of the political parties in Norway. The Central Party is very pleased that the Government of the Party Act has largely followed the advice of the Democratic Finance Committee. Nevertheless, we believe that 1/10 of the batch support as a basic amount is too small to carry on a desired minimum activity in the batches, and we therefore suggest that 2/10 of the support is allowed as a basic support. The basic funding is very important for the smaller batches, which probably have fewer options for alternative sources of funding. All batches with nationwide operations have substantial costs of maintaining a basic activity associated with manning and office maintenance. I think that the political threat is closely linked to the economic freedom that the public party support gives. The government of the People's Party depends on the parties' ability to capture people's interest in political work. We see that reduced membership in the parties and poorer resolution of elections is a development that follows from general trends in society. The government and the selection focus on transparency in the parties' economic relationships as an important means of sustaining people's confidence in the political system, and that is positive. The legislative proposal imposes an extended notification obligation in relation to the current law, which is fully supported by the Central Party. Nevertheless, we want a lower limit on the amount to be published than the majority wants. This has been a significant feature of the secret of gifts to the political parties. We believe that it is very important that there is no question of political party's integrity to individual actors in society. It is therefore of general interest that gifts of economic value are declared. I wish that the majority had supported the Centerpartiet and SV's proposal that the parties be required to report the income of the existing year before 1 September of the election year. Many of the hearing authorities have also supported this. It is an important principle that the electorate knows who has given financial support to the parties, especially to their respective parties. Public support for the parties has a major impact on the development of democracy in society, and it has an important preventive effect on suspicions of corruption between political parties and actors with particular economic interests. In order to ensure the greatest possible legitimacy for our democracy and the political system, which is based on party and popular representation, it is essential for the distrust between the people and the elected people that there is no suspicion that one can buy political decisions. The political system in Norway, and otherwise the politicians, have a strong position in the people. It's a system that's built up so we can avoid suspicions of corruption. I mean that the public party support is a tree in this context. The central party supports the proposal on the deduction of income from subsidies to the political party. In this context, I would like to stress how important it is with full openness. Finally, I would like to address the Centre Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1083	The representative, Eli Sollied Upperaas, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1086	The left is very positive that we now have our own party law with clear and transparent rules, which are important for the trust in the political system as such and also in the political parties. It is now almost ten years since the Left for the first time in this room took the initiative of transparency in accounting and private contributions to political parties. It wasn't all the parties that today celebrate the openness, that were just as sure that it was a good idea. But that is often the case with the Left proposal. They start with some resistance and end up with full agreement. We hope to do the same with the legal register initiative, which we were also left alone at the beginning. Trust and credibility require transparency. I think we can make a lot of rules around this, like the Advance Party and other parties are trying a little bit, but we can't really hit where we're going. The only way to fight down a possible mistrust of our political system is to have complete openness around gifts and other things. The left has always had openness around gifts. I think it's funny if other parties have asked questions from the pulpit here today about whether someone is going to comply. In the case of batch financing, it is important that good public schemes exist. We all agree on this. I think it might be a little strange that the party SV, who, according to my knowledge, also has party taxes, has freeness to say that the financing of the parties today is so good that it should not be necessary for anyone to look for any other source of income for their political work. It really says the most about the election campaign, what SV is doing now, trying to swear to other parties in relation to, for example, the election campaign. this with slot machines. There, SV systematically informs errors from its Internet pages, including: by writing that the Party Left has 20 local layers that have million revenues, while we know that there are 20 local layers that make a total of 900,000 kroner in bingo. It is clear that SV does not have much knowledge of the voluntary sector in this country either, as bingo operations in the vast majority of cases consist of a quarter with slot machines. I think we should primarily attack those who break laws and regulations. There are no violations of the laws and regulations. The slot machines that are in the bingo also have 18 years of age associated with them, and a good control mechanism that is not found anywhere else. But it does say a little about what tone SV has intended to put on in the election campaign. There it's more important to spread dirty about others than to show what you really stand for. So a small question in relation to a comment in the setting on page 10, second column, which I might think is a bit strange, but which may show some new paces in relation to the election campaign we're going through. The working party, SV and the centre party – that the centre party is in, may not be so strange – has a comment where they say that ‘the public funding of the political parties has a fundamental function for the development of democracy in Norway, with parties independent of external financing from other factors of power which may affect decisions in the parties’. I wonder if this comment might mean that the Workers' Party and the SV are going to refrain from supporting one of the largest power factors in our country, that is LO, and that this may be a pre-post-fection for a slightly larger political action that is going to happen with the delivery of this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1104	I am pleased that democracy funding, the financing of the parties, gathers as much as it does when it is built up. It is a strength for democracy that a public-appointed selection of representatives of all the nation-wide political parties and also groupings organised at local level was so united behind its position, and the treatment of the Stortinge today also shows that there is a broad consensus on the main issues relating to how we should finance democracy and our parties in the future. I believe it is a strength that the party organisations meet a law to which there is great and broad support. It gives a long-termity and predictability that our parties deserve. I am of those who believe that full transparency helps to strengthen confidence between the voters and the elected ones, and in line with that, there is an important law adopted today. I am committed to the entry into force of Chapter 4 of the Act, on the rules on private and reporting aid, with effect from 1 July 2005, with effect from 1 January 2005, and to the entry into force of the rest of the Act with effect from 1 January next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1113	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1116	I must begin by commending the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen and the Progress Party for uniting life and learning this time. They want to be liberal in terms of games, and they don't have any concerns about it, and then they do. I can respect that. I find it more surprising that the proposal that lies here from SV, which is clearly seen, and by which some have been provoked, has not received any attention. To me, it might seem that some parties want to keep silent, either because it's not important or maybe because it's unpleasant. I noticed that the representative Trond Giske is taus, that Right Sonja Irene Sjøli is taus, that the Christian People's Party Ola T. Loans are taus, and that the center party Eli Sollied Uppereas is taus. The representative of Trine Skei Grande believes that SV misinforms on its websites. In this case, it is not necessary to misinform, it takes a long time to manage reality. If there is a problem about Left's practice in relation to this case on SV's websites, it should of course be corrected. I am aware that there was a mistake a few hours on the first day, but we fixed it immediately. Tell me, we'll do it, but the left must also be able to hear the truth. And I'm surprised, because I've been sent material from the left where it says that the main organization of the left will refrain from such revenue on a principle basis. Today, we see that the central government of the Left, by Secretary-General Terje Breivik, encourages Young Left and Left Local Teams to assess these revenues. They regret that they do not have the authority to instruct. Today, the SV submits a proposal that allows the administration of instructions. Step Skei Grande also says that SV does not want us to have revenues other than the public. Then I must recommend to Trine Skei Grande to read the setting, where it is clear that SV accepts both gifts and contributions from members. It is quite correct that in the SV’s Deposit Group, all representatives pay a solid sum each month, and we do not require tax deductions for these revenues. We don't think that's necessary. Of course, the lot must be able to have other revenues, but it shall not be necessary to obtain tax deductions for that reason. It's still possible to make sense. It is still possible to introduce a regime to prevent batches from receiving income from slot machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1129	We have decided that Norwegian Tipping should have a monopoly on these slot machines. A majority have adopted it – all except the Advance Party. So the slot machines that organizations or volunteers may have are going to be gone. That's what we've decided. We hope, of course, that this is the way it should be – and then I think about the trial that is going on. So a little bit about openness. I feel that in this debate there has been an undertone of envy because of the money that the Workers' Party receives from the trade movement. We are very proud of that cooperation. If someone had read the story of the Norwegian Workers’ Party – that’s a good reading – they would have seen that the cooperation has been going on for 100 years. We've enjoyed each other, and we've seen that we're on the same line. This is why the Workers' Party and the trade union movement work together. But there's been openness about it -- it says to read in all books and in all newspapers even. I have a hope that when we now adopt this law, there will be openness in all camps. So then also Rimi-Hagen and all good comrades with a lot of money have to tell them that they're giving money to political parties. That's how we want it. It is now passed with this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1136	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1116]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1152	The 1972 Bathing Convention regulates reindeerness between Norway and Sweden. What that really means is that Norwegian Rein has access to areas in Sweden and that Swedish Rein has access to areas in Norway. Such a convention is necessary simply because the patterns of movement and the culture of the reindeer families are not adapted to the national border. It is therefore absolutely necessary to have legislation in these areas to ensure that both nutritional and cultural conditions are respected. Since 1997, the Norwegian and Swedish sides have tried to negotiate a new agreement. A number of meetings have been held, consultations have been held, and difficulties have been encountered in reaching a new agreement. Despite the fact that several alternative solutions and compromises have been outlined by the Norwegian side, it is therefore not possible to agree. The Swedish Government decided in February to wind up the agreement. On 15 March, the Swedish Parliament decided not to continue this Convention. I'll quote briefly what the Swedish government says: «1751 years of the border treaty including the Lap Codicille are still in force between Sweden and Norway.» That means that the Swedish authorities want to rewind back to 1751, when they had a code called the Lappe Cod. On the part of the Norwegian authorities, it has been said – and the Committee agrees – that there is legislation that is demanding to be enforced. It's a code with which we have little experience, it's an old code, and it's complicated to practice it in 2005. That is why the Committee supports the Government's decision today that we are committed to the 1972 agreement. It's a group committee that's behind it. But the matter is not solved because here we have a problem. We have a problem when the Swedish Riksdag makes a decision saying that a code from 1751 should be practised that gives Swedish reindeer farmers more land areas in Norway, while the Norwegian Storing decides to practice the 1972 Code, which means something else. The Committee has stated clearly that this is regrettable and that it is considered that there is an unsustainable situation in which different legislation is available on the Norwegian and Swedish sides. The Committee would therefore strongly urge that discussions and discussions with the Swedish authorities be held as soon as possible by Norway in order to reach an agreement with which both countries can live, so as to avoid unnecessary conflicts between reindeer farmers in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1170	I am pleased with the decision that Odelstinget is making today. This means that we get a manageable legal status in Norway in relation to reindeer grazing in these areas. I would like to stress that we have different legal status in the two countries for a cross-border industry, not a permanent system, as the rapporteur said. Therefore, it is important to use this situation to quickly arrive at a unified solution on both sides of the border. I think it is necessary to make this decision, so that we retain the legal status we have had in Norway since 1972, as a basis for the negotiations that now have to start rapidly. Because it will be in the interest of both countries to have a common legal order on both sides of the border. It is therefore necessary to adopt that Decision. I already have an agreement during this month to meet my Swedish colleague to get these negotiations back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1177	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1120]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1193	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to the comments of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It will be to look upon as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1202	In Ot.prp. No 94 makes proposals to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for changes in the law on social security, in the law on changes in the law on social security of 17 December 2004 No. 85, and in alcohol laws. The changes in public welfare law extend entitlement to care allowance for parents with several chronically ill or disabled children. The amendment to the amending law applies to the implementation of a partial responsibility for sickness funds for employers during the social security period. The changes in alcohol laws apply to the free sale of alcoholic beverages at Norwegian airports. A collective committee is busy getting sufficient public help from parents who have children with disabilities to master a difficult life situation and to be able to function in the workplace in line with others. Parents with multiple chronically ill or disabled children need several days of care money to care for their children when they are ill. This has been pointed out several times by both user organisations and the social security system. The Committee is therefore pleased that the Board of Directors now proposes changes to better meet the need for care allowance for families with several chronically ill or disabled children, as care for these children often leads to the need for more days of benefit than is currently possible. A joint committee therefore supports this proposal. Families with highly disabled children are faced with major challenges both when it comes to economics and when it comes to dealing with a difficult everyday life. Parents of highly disabled children carry out day-to-day large and demanding tasks. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Government is offensive in this field. The strategy plan launched by the Government in May of this year is important for parents who have children with disabilities to be able to provide care for the child by means of coordinated services tailored to their family needs. This strategy plan will promote several actions. What we are discussing today is just one of many new, positive actions launched by the Government in this strategy plan. In St. prp. No 1 for 2004-2005 and in Ot.prp. No 9 for 2004-2005, the Government proposes changes to the legislation on sickness benefits, including: that the employer would have a partial responsibility for sickness benefit of 10 p.m. for the entire period of sickness benefit. As a result of the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Progress Party, the Act was adopted, with effect from 1 July 2005. But the proposal was to be reconsidered if it turned out that absence went down more than expected. The expenditure on sickness funds and the level of sick leave are now less than expected in the 2005 budget decision. The change in the legislation on sick pay introduced from 1 July 2004 has probably led to the reduction in sick leave we have seen from the fourth quarter of 2003 to the fourth quarter of 2004. This decrease has had the effect that the partial responsibility for employers that one decided to introduce from 1 July 2005 will not now be necessary after the majority’s assessment. The plurality, the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, therefore think that the latest developments in the disease absence make the original proposal of little use. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party have a slightly different approach to the issue, but there is a joint committee that suggests that the decision on partial responsibility for employers be lifted. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the Ministry of this Proposition proposes to amend the laws on alcohol in order to exempt the duty-free sale on Norwegian aerodromes from abroad from the obligation of authorisation under the alcohol law. The new free-of-charge scheme on income is intended to reflect the free-of-charge scheme on departure. The Committee has also noted that although exemptions are made in this way, the other general rules of the alcohol laws will also apply to this sale. A collective committee is behind these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1223	There are two aspects that SV believes deserve a comment in the debate. One is that work for families with highly disabled children must be based on full social equality. The measures taken by the Government must be aimed at ensuring that this is the actual outcome of the measures. We all understand that such families need massive measures, and in cases where they get it, we see that it works very well. So the point of the IA agreement. The IA agreement is important. The government must not continue to doubt it in the case of unilateral proposals for changes. Norway is in a unique position, where social authorities and social partners can address one of the major welfare and economic challenges facing society. With that agreement in hand, you can come a long way in solving the problems. But then it is important that this work not only focuses on the main objective 1, which is to reduce sick leave, but to focus at least as much on the main objective 2, which is to get those who are out of work back into working life, and on the intermediate objective 3, which is to get the seniors to stand longer in the workplace. Unfortunately, in the case of Objective 2 and Objective 3, according to a response letter to the municipal committee of municipal minister Erna Solberg, ‘there is nothing to suggest that the IA agreement has contributed to the entry into working life of more people with disabilities’. And it goes on to say in the letter: ‘There is nothing to suggest that the agreement has helped to raise the expected retirement age either.’ And then it is said to come back to this in the evaluation in October 2005. It's obvious that you haven't focused enough on these two main goals. And it is obvious that new measures are needed to ensure that Objective 2 and Objective 3 receive as much focus as Objective 1 and that a balance is struck between them, so that compliance with Objective 1 – i.e. reducing sick leave – does not contribute to an increase in exclusion, which leads to the failure of Objective 2 and Objective 3. It may be easy to reduce sick leave if you are able to make people with poor health feel unwell. Unfortunately, when you look at the numbers in the seams both in municipalities and in individual companies, that's what happened. Yesterday, the Rikstrøgdeverket and Fafo organised a large conference on the IA agreement, which reviewed what has happened in several major companies. It turns out that you can work well with the sick leave around those who are employed, but unfortunately you have concentrated little and had little opportunity to help those who are outside the workplace to be given an opportunity. The challenges of SV are two: Stop messing with the IA agreement! Find the means to achieve the objectives of Objective 2 and Objective 3 as well!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1250	Parents with disabled children need public assistance to master a difficult life situation and to function in the workplace. I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposal to provide parents with care for several chronically ill or disabled children with several days of care to care for their children when they are ill. This is one of several measures that the Government is now working on to respond better to the needs of this group on the part of society. Our assessment, following extensive discussion with those affected by this, and with the representatives of the disabled, is that there is also a great need to coordinate public services better. That is why we are now working on the follow-up to the Strategy Plan for families with children with disabilities, where one of the measures will be better coordination around those who get and have the right to an individual plan, so that they will also have one person to deal with in the auxiliaries that coordinate the follow-up to the individual plan. We are also concerned about continuing the trials with user-driven personal assistants for families with disabled children, and not just for some disabled people. It is a measure that has, by experience, worked well and should become generally applicable. Let me say that I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that there is social equality that is the starting point, and that must be the starting point, when you meet the needs of this group, which are families that have a common challenge in many ways in mastering their everyday lives, because one or more of the children are disabled. With regard to the IA agreement, I would like briefly to point out that the Government intends to continue cooperation with the parties on inclusive working life. Last week I had a meeting with the social partners where we started the discussions on how this IA cooperation could best be designed in the future. It is based on the experience we have gained in this period, and then on the evaluation that will come. It is quite right, as Andersen's representative says, that we have achieved good results in relation to sick leave – 25 pst. decrease in the last year. That is why the Government has dropped the proposal for an increase in the employer’s funding, and the consequence of which is taken into account in this position which is being discussed here today. But it is also true that the results in relation to Objectives 2 and 3, which are therefore aimed at including the disabled and getting older workers to work longer, are not in the vicinity of what could be hoped for when the agreement was concluded. Therefore, this focus will be strongly focused in the review of the experience gained with the agreement and in the design of the cooperation in the future. I can mention that, on the part of the Government, we are also working on a major report on senior policy, which, in addition to all that is done in the extension of the pension reform to create a working life that allows more people to choose to stand longer in the labour market, will focus on measures other than purely pension policy, which can contribute to such a development in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1267	As the IA agreement has been so much in focus, I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Center Party. It is gratifying that the sick leave has been reduced, and that statistics now show that the right path is in line with the intention of signing the IA agreement. Then I want to mention a note in the setting that is in line with this, from the minority – the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party – where we warn against the Government unilaterally trying to change this agreement, among others. by requiring the employer to cover a higher proportion of the expenditure, so that a person is given a less predictable contract. What made me take the floor in the first place was the decline in sick leave, which is joyous. But I'm afraid that these numbers are hiding a development that is by no means joyous. We now see that there is relatively high unemployment in the nursing and care professions. There are quite a number of complaints about poor public finances, mainly in the municipal sector. This is a form of exclusion that is very unfortunate. It affects mainly female workers, which is one of the weakest groups, both in proportion to their share of work and in relation to their rights. One also needs to focus on this when looking at the figures for the decrease in sick leave. It's true, as Andersen's representative was about, that one intention was to bring down sick leave. Another intention is to have an inclusive working life where as much work as possible can be done. This applies not least to disabled persons and the elderly. So a brief note about the care allowance scheme for families with chronically ill children or disabled children. It is gratifying that the Government is now making a proposal to extend the number of care days. But it is important that an overall assessment of the living conditions of these families and that social equality must be the goal. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, through the Strategy Plan for Families with Children with Disabilities, has announced a comprehensive review of economic and social conditions. I would like to point out that it is important that a person gets a real wage for work done at home, that a person gets relief schemes, among other things. with user-controlled personal assistant also for these, that one can have individual plans for those concerned, and that the different leave schemes are reviewed. Labour-related relationships, as well as other relevant issues, need to be reviewed in order to achieve a real social equality that one is entitled to, even when one has as much added stress as one has in a family with severely disabled or chronically ill children.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1282	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1121]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1298	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1122]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1314	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1122]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1330	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1123]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1343	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 - 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1351	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 2, by Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 3, by Heidi Grande Røys on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 4, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5 and 6, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Center Party and the Coastal Party. As regards proposal No: 4, from the Progress Party, this has been included in the minority proposals in the event of an error. This proposal has been incorporated into the majority vote's proposal for a decision by notifying the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left of subsidiary support for it. The proposal therefore lapses as a minority proposal. Before we start voting on this matter – and this also applies to the next case of the Finance Committee – the President will say the following: To let go of relatively long and complicated voting, the President will put up the voting so that there is a vote on minority proposals first and then grouped over the vote. This will mean that the different batch fractions may have to wetter differently from that of the primary positions as explained in the presets in the setting. Once the financial committee's fractions have accepted such a procedure to save time, it is imperative that the voting should not be used retrospectively against those who vote differently than they would otherwise have done. The President assumes that it's accepted and okay. We are now going to vote on the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1420	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, says: ‘Tax Payments Act § 14-3 The Expense Business Act is replaced by the following: The tax collectors and tax authorities can keep business for outlays in their districts for tax and tax claims for which they are liable. [[1]] The district of collection is the whole country for tax claims determined by a central equation under paragraphs 2 to 4 of the Equation Act. 1 letter a. [[2]] A tax collector may, on request, keep business for the outlays of tax claims for which the liability of another tax collector or tax authority is the responsibility of collection. Similarly, a tax haven may, upon request, hold outlays for other tax havens or tax collectors.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1443	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party, says: «The Tax Payment Act new § 2-1 i shall be replaced by the following:§ 2-1 The tax levied on municipalities – property and income taxes, social security contributions and employers' contributions Property and income taxes, social security contributions and employers' contributions are paid to and levied by the municipal tax collector: Advance payments and employers' contributions are payable to the municipal tax collector of the municipality where the employer is resident or has his head office. [[1]] [[2]] Advances from companies and depositors shall be paid to the municipal tax collector of the municipality in which the company or depositor has its head office or board of directors. [[3]] Advance taxes and residual taxes shall be paid to the municipal tax collector of the municipality for which the tax is charged. [[4]] The first to third subparagraphs do not apply to the requirements referred to in Sections 2-3. [[5]] The Ministry may lay down rules on who will collect advances and employers’ contributions from non-resident employers and companies and on whom such claims will be paid.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e1471	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party, reads: ‘The Tax Payments Act Section 15-1, the new third paragraph, is replaced by the following: In tax matters, decisions shall be taken after the first paragraph of the Presidency following the nomination of a sample of at least three members elected by the Local Council may appoint several selections as referred to in the first sentence where necessary. [[chairmanship]] The Municipal Council may decide that the tasks of the Tax Committee shall be added to another municipal denominator. In this case, the second sentence shall apply mutatis mutandis to the proceedings under this law. The Municipal Council shall decide who shall be the head and vice-chair of the sample. The Ministry may lay down rules on the costing of non-recoverable tax amounts. In the case of taxpayers who are required to pay only State taxes, the department concerned may provide for the addition of the suspension and decision referred to in the first to fifth sentences to other bodies.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3424	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3434	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3445	According to the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, B is to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3453	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Coastal Party proposal No. 3, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party Proposal No. 4, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 5 and 6, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Presidents and the coastal party proposals No. 7 and 8, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3561	Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]] the first paragraph of Section 4-12 is replaced by the following: Listed shares are generally valued at 75pst. of the price value on 1 January of the Equation Year. Paragraph 4-12, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Unlisted share is valued at 75 pst. the proportion of the share in the total value of the tax assets of the limited liability company or public limited liability company on 1 January of the previous year, broken down by denomination. the first sentence of the third paragraph of Article 4-12 is replaced by the following: Unlisted shares in foreign companies are valued at 75 pst. the estimated value of the share's sales on 1 January of the Equation Year. Paragraphs 4 to 12 of the fifth paragraph are replaced by the following: Basic certificates in savings banks, mutual insurance companies, credit and mortgage associations and self-owned financial corporations are valued at 75 pst. of the price value on 1 January of the Equation Year. If the price is not quoted or is not known, the value is set to 75 pst. of the estimated value to sell. Paragraphs 4 to 12(6) are replaced by the following: The share of mutual funds is valued at 75 pst. of the unit value on 1 January of the Equation Year. Paragraph 4-13, first paragraph, first sentence is replaced by the following: For limited liability companies or public limited liability companies formed the year before the Equation Year, the share value is set at 75 pst. of the sum of the nominal amount of the shares and the premium.IIThe changes in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2005 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3622	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]] Paragraphs 12-11(a) shall be replaced by the following:(a) actual capital income such as the return on shares, deposits, debt securities, debt securities, outstanding receivables, capital income in the form of forestry income and the like; Income from outstanding receivables shall not be deducted. Paragraphs 12-11, third paragraph, (b) shall be replaced by the following: Paragraphs 12-12, third paragraph, are replaced by the following: The Ministry prescribes the maximum protection rate for each year of income. The interest rate shall include a risk add-on of 5 percentage points.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3657	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Climate Act shall be amended as follows: § 3, first paragraph, new points (f) and (g) are replaced by the following:(f) production of fishmeal and fish oil) wood processing industry Section 5 is replaced by the following: For the activities covered by the first subparagraph of Article 3 (f) and (g), the period following the first subparagraph shall be 15 July 2005. The allocation of allowances to such activities pursuant to Section 9 for 2005 shall take place by 15 September 2005. Section 6 is replaced by the following: In addition to the quantity of allowances determined in accordance with the first subparagraph, the King shall determine the total number of allowances for the allocation to the activities covered by the first subparagraph of paragraph 3(f) and (g) for the period from 15 September 2005 to 31 December 2007. The current second paragraph of Section 6 becomes the third paragraph of Section 6. IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2005.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3705	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘X sixth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The change in VI shall enter into force immediately with effect from the income year 2005 but shall be deferred with respect to the last sentence of Section 8-1, third paragraph, first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 8-3, first sentence of the second paragraph of the first sentence of the first paragraph of the first sentence of the first paragraph of the first sentence of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of the first sentence of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of the second sentence of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the third paragraph of the third paragraph of the third paragraph of the second paragraph of the second sentence of the second paragraph of the first sentence of the second paragraph of the first sentence of the second paragraph of the first sentence of the second paragraph of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the second paragraph of the sentence of the
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3722	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 1964 No. 14 on the inheritance levy and certain gifts are amended as follows: the fourth paragraph of Section 2 is replaced by the following: It is irrelevant for the provision in front of whether the marriage or cohabitation has ceased in the event of death. Paragraph 47(A) is added as follows: Definition For the purposes of this Act, persons covered by the provisions of Sections 1 to 5 of the People's Rights Act and two unmarried persons who have lived together in matrimonial relationships for two years and continue to live together shall be considered as cohabitants.IIThe change under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2002.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3789	The President has reason to believe that the Central Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e3832	Here the President assumes that the Advance Party and the Coastal Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5037	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5047	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5057	According to the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, K will be sending the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5104	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5114	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5122	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2 by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 4, from Eli Sollied Practices on behalf of the Center Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5162	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The last sentence of the second paragraph of Section 11 shall be replaced by the following: Of the total aid, 8/10 is allocated as voting aid and 2/10 as basic aid. the last sentence of the second paragraph of Section 12 is replaced by the following: Of the total aid, 8/10 is allocated as voting aid and 2/10 as basic aid. Paragraph 13, second paragraph, last sentence, is replaced by the following: Of the total aid, 8/10 is allocated as voting aid and 2/10 as basic aid.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5193	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following point (c) is added to the third paragraph of Section 17: Organisations receiving public support, either indirectly or directly.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5211	The President assumes that once the minority proposals have been dropped, the vote will be supported in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5631	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5641	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5721	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5731	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5871	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5881	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5921	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e5931	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e6008	It is vouched for the law's change of law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e6018	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e6143	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e6153	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14-lower.ana.ud1878e6165	There is no record.
