ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e32	The representative Woie Duesund said in an article earlier today that one had to focus not only on quantity but more on quality. Yes, that's exactly what this interpolation is about. The NRK Nettavisen wrote on 14 February that there were tasks of health authorities that showed that every third care provider is without health and social education. Unfortunately, this is not new, as it has been in public hospitals for very many years, but with some considerable variations. Most unskilled help is available in public hospitals in the larger cities and agglomerations. The care factor is on average today approx. 0.67 annual work per year patients. There is a slight increase from the 1970s, when the average age of the nursing homes was 75 years, whereas today it is from 84 years and up. In addition, most health care providers are currently being investigated or treated in hospitals and have been diagnosed for more than one diagnosis. They are released early from hospitals and receive intensive treatment and follow-up over a shorter or longer period of time in hospitals. So it's in our public somatic home that the absolutely worst patients in the country are at the moment in the country, while it's in the same nursing home that we have the worst nursing staff, both qualitatively and quantitatively. This doesn't make sense. Different supervisory reports also confirm this. Something should now be done — or should have been done a long time ago. It must be that an elderly, sick person has the same demands for professional competence in the treatment and care follow-up in the hospital that patients have when admitted to hospital. There's a lot of shortage here. I assume that the Minister of Health agrees with me on this, and I would like it confirmed. In the larger cities and agglomerations with a large number of immigrants, many of these are recruited as unskilled help in our public hospitals. The problem with too many immigrants in hospitals is not that they lack care or empathy for the sick elderly, rather on the contrary. Language is the biggest problem, both for caregivers and patients. I have received very many enquiries to my office from relatives who complain about this. In my opinion, the municipalities as an employer have quite a responsibility here. Something has to be done here, and if the municipalities are not able to find out for themselves, the responsible overall authority has to intervene, so that a non-skilled immigrant is not regarded without knowing the Norwegian culture and mastering the Norwegian language in a way that can provide the patient with safety and trust. I've let myself tell you that the intake of unskilled help almost happens right from the street, without introduction and without training before they are released on old, sick and fragile people. This cannot possibly be characterised as proper care and care, as our legislation requires that one should also have in the public hospitals. When the proportion of unskilled care services in nursing homes is as large as 30 pst., this is not only due to the fact that access to such staff is poor, rather on the contrary, although in some places it may be the case. In this case too, I am afraid that full-time employment is a disadvantage in order to get professional care and continuity in care. There must be economic reasons for this when the number of unskilled workers is as high as it is, and there has been an expert on external assistance that could have stepped in and improved the situation. In such a situation, I consider it a pretty big paradox that a whole 60 pst. In part-time jobs, some of our assistants today have quite small fractions and do not get permanent employment in full-time jobs. This one should be able to do something about, if the municipality was willing to do it. It is precisely in this field that I believe that the Department and the Minister of Health can really do something in relation to the KS and some municipalities. In my opinion, it must be possible to operate with tour lists and set up the watchkeeping service in such a way that the most permanent staff can be used. It's just a technique, and that technique must the municipalities learn from a professional need and not from the sum of money. As I see it, the elderly effort carried out, the older reform of over 30 billion kroner, has become largely a housing reform rather than a quality reform. In my view, this was not the opinion of Storting. But poor follow-up from different governments in relation to the municipalities has given this as a result. That one at the end of the plan in 2005 lacks 12,000 sick homes, I would almost call a scandal. The variations in manning around the country are extremely large. While one nursing home serves 14 patients in the evening and at night with nurses, we have other cases where there is only one nurse on guard at night for 180 patients. It goes without saying that the last is irresponsible care and care — and that in relation to the sickest of the sickest in the country. In my opinion, the Minister of Health should contact the KS and ensure that we get better, even staffing in all our public health homes, as well as looking at both management and organisation in one's home, which is also of great importance for the exploitation of the professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e51	I would like to thank you for the opportunity given by this interpellation, which is absolutely useful with a debate on both the personnel situation and the quality of the community care services. The monitoring of care services by the Health Authority in the municipalities from October 2003 shows that the basic care and treatment are consistently well maintained. However, we see that there are challenges that need to be solved in order to ensure better quality of service provision. Municipal care is one of Norway’s largest establishments. The sector has over 40 billion kroner in operating costs. It is likely that 200,000 users, with very different needs, receive such services. Preliminary figures for 2003 from the SSB show that it is about. 111,000 annual shifts in care services. Because many work part-time, as was mentioned by the representative Alvheim, the number of employees is much higher, approx. 145000 employees. Of these, more than 33,000 annual works have been carried out by personnel without completed health and social education. On a national basis, the most recent estimates show that it is 23 pst. of the workstock without formal education. There is some uncertainty about these figures because the SSB has made changes in the way they register the personnel. Final figures for 2003 will be available before the summer. While access to nurses is satisfactory, the major challenge is related to the care and care positions. The government has put particular emphasis on this in the recruitment plan for health and social workers for the period 2003–2006. The aim of the plan is to increase the gross access of caregivers and caregivers from 3000 to approx. 4 500 per year. Appropriations for the 2005 recruitment plan, i.e. the current year, are above 130 million. kr. In general, there has been a growth in the number of persons employed in the care service. This growth has mainly occurred in relation to personnel with health and social education. Figures from the recruitment plan for health and social workers show that there has been a decrease of 1.9 pst. of unskilled, with a growth of 6 pst. for auxiliary and caregivers and a growth of 3,5 pst. for nurses. There has also been a high rate of growth in other higher education and university-educated personnel groups. We experience that it is very effective to bet on qualifying people who are already working in the care services as skilled workers. Substantial resources from the recruitment plan go to programmes to qualify staff without health and social education. This is done through grants to municipalities that will give their employees the opportunity to gain skills and professional status. Many unskilled care professionals have made use of this offer. In addition, we need to strengthen the proportion of young people taking basic health and social education courses in higher education. After a worrying decrease in the number of applicants towards the end of the 1990s, we now see a happy increase. Last year the increase was 11 pst. The Social and Health Directorate has launched a youth recruitment campaign to get more applicants for this basic course. Interpellant points to the high proportion of staff without health and social education in the care service. In its supervisory report, the Health Inspectorate states that unskilled workers are a major and important part of the care staff. These employees may in many cases be experienced employees who have been under continuous guidance and training and who provide sound, quality services. The number from the recruitment plan shows that approx. 45 pst. of which, without health and social education, have higher education and higher education other than health and social education. These include: many students who contribute to the circulation of the wheels. There are considerable variations between the counties as regards the proportion of persons employed without formal education. In particular, the counties and the Trondelags have a high proportion of employees with formal qualifications. In the municipality of Mandal, for example, it is reported that there are only skilled carers in the care service and that qualified applicants are good. The main challenges for unskilled people are, as the interpellant had to face, in the Oslo and Akershus areas and in the Hordaland counties. This is why the Social and Health Directorate has launched a large-scale urban programme specifically to monitor the recruitment situation and empowerment of the five largest municipalities. The interpellant asks about how to secure the professional level. In addition to the recruitment plan to ensure professional competence, the focus of the Government is on raising the quality of care services. The majority gave broad support to this policy during the discussion of St.meld. No 45 for 2002–03 in the spring session last year. Let me underline the relationship between these bets. Measures that improve the quality of service provision also contribute to a better working environment. This has a positive effect on the ability to recruit and not least keep staff. Although the 2003 Health Inspectorate survey shows that quality is consistently good, we should not fail to recognize conditions that are not good enough. Health surveillance shows, among other things: to 3.7 pst. of the positions in nursing homes and 9,2 pst. the total number of job vacancies in the home care centre was zero on the guard surveyed. The scarcity of staff and vacations obviously has consequences for the provision of services to users. The survey also shows that more jobs than planned in the tour plan were occupied by unskilled workers. Health care suggests that this may be due to both recruitment problems and sick leave. There is reason to stress the responsibilities of the local authority for adequate competence and the ability of health professionals to comply with statutory obligations. Let me also mention the SINTEF study on the relationship between quality, staffing and organisation in nursing homes. The study was commissioned by the employee organisations Trade Union Confederation, Nursing Association and the Medical Association, which wanted the study to identify a level of standard. The study found that other conditions were even more important. Aspects essential to quality and working environment are clear management, good staff follow-up, a culture of professionalism, skills enhancement, communication and building conditions. The government focuses on strengthening the management function in order to enhance the quality of care services. This is, as I said, a priority finding support in several studies. The government has therefore developed a leadership programme called ‘Flink with people’, together with the Municipal Councils’. Now we're starting to see results. There are processes of change in municipalities that turn out positively in the form of increased employee satisfaction. When staff members have clear leaders who facilitate professional meeting places, skills development, variation and responsibilities, the employees are flourishing. Sick leave goes down and stability increases. This is also confirmed in the comprehensive supervisory campaign of the Labour Inspectorate in the home service. The supervision demonstrates that there have been systematic change processes, which have contributed to a better working environment, with the positive effects it has. There is, of course, a link between quality, staffing and staff competence. But increasing resources isn't the whole answer. It is very important to look at how municipalities and individual businesses organise their services and use the resources allocated. The government stresses that quality development should be local-based. A good service offer needs to be developed by those who are in the middle of the task and who know the conditions locally. The government therefore emphasises the partnership perspective with municipalities in order to achieve the necessary quality development. The Government and the KS have entered into an agreement on quality development in the care services. An important part of the cooperation agreement is that municipalities commit themselves to using quality systems and to being measured on quality and performance. By measuring and documenting the quality of services, municipalities can compare results over time and learn from the experiences of other municipalities. A quality measurement system will provide a better basis for assessing the manning situation, skills needs and service design. The first quality indicators will be published in the summer. An important factor in recruiting staff for care services is that the sector itself has a good reputation. The question is whether services have not received an unearthed bad reputation in many contexts. We have to ask ourselves whether we politicians are involved in conveying a proper picture of the situation in the care services. This is about one of the most important public tasks and some of the most meaningful jobs you can have. How should we stimulate young people to choose care professionals? Are we helping employees to feel valued and to be proud of their efforts? We have a common challenge in recruiting caregivers and caregivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e87	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. As far as I could judge, there was very little disagreement between the Minister of Health and me in describing the situation we currently have. On the other hand, I do not agree with the Minister of Health that there is a lack of qualified help that is the biggest problem. We've recently read a report that could tell that 8 pst. by qualified nurses in nursing homes have now been notified, i.e. they were suspended because of the difficult budgetary situation in many municipalities. Then it tells me that the municipalities where this has happened have not prioritised the statutory task they have in relation to providing proper care and care in a public hospital. There must be other things to cut at, than care and care for the very sickest of the sickest in this country. It is positive that the department has addressed the problem, which is particularly large in the big cities. As soon as we get results from this program, I expect it to be communicated to Stortinget in a suitable way, so that we can feel confident that the qualified care that the Stortinget has scientifically adopted, also exists, not only in some places, not just for the most part, but everywhere. When the health minister uses the term to help the wheels walk around, and it's about a nurse on guard at night for 180 patients, then goes with respect not to report the wheels around. There is irresponsible care and care in a public institution. Otherwise, I fully agree with the Minister of Health – and I think we can influence it all – that municipalities need to be stimulated to re-train and further train unskilled help. Older women tend to have gone off as unskilled help, perhaps for many years. With a real re-education for these, we will get really good care workers with great empathy for the patients. So that work should be intensified in most municipalities. Then we'll be able to get something longer than the case is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e98	When one is going to discuss to the extent of any topic, it is important that one agrees with the actual description of reality, and I feel that the undersigned and the representative Alvheim, head of the Social Committee, are. I very much agree with the last representative who said, that is, what goes on in continuing education, not least the fact that some former housewives who have worked part-time in nursing, and who may be given the opportunity to enter full-time jobs, are given follow-up training. This has just proved to be the most effective re-training project that has been. With regard to what the representative said about the local economy – that is, the financial ability to prioritise, and the other thing that goes on the will, namely, if you prioritise this area – I have to give the representative the right idea that it is clear that some municipalities have had an economy that has been hard. Hard priorities have had to be made there. However, some municipalities that have had a sufficient economy have also prioritised areas other than massive efforts in the care of the elderly. We know that very well from many parts of the country. This is the way the system is, left to the municipal priority, and we have to respect that as far as it goes. Of course, as regards the quality indicators and the results of the ongoing continuing training projects, I will ensure that the Storting is informed of them in a relevant way. It would be natural to have a piece of information about it in connection with the State budget for the autumn, so that the Stortinget can have an overall representation of this very basic, namely the extent and quality of care in our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e109	The next recorded speaker is Britt Hildeng, but it doesn't seem she's in the room, so Bent Höie gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e112	The representative Hildeng may have been horrified by the pulpit after it collapsed when she was up earlier today. I am very pleased with this debate, because it points to something very important, namely what one should focus on now as one goes towards the final phase of the Stortingen escalating plan. It is quite obvious, as both the inter-pellant and the Minister of Health and Care point out, that it is now important to focus on the quality of the services provided. The background of the escalation plan was, of course, a large lack of capacity. Therefore, there was a reform that focused heavily on building, on providing places, while the government subsequently filled up with the quality message on care services. The Minister of Health has explained to a large extent the various proposals and the various measures that have been put in place to give a greater focus to the content of services, so I will not comment on anything more than that, except to refer to what the Minister has said. What got me to speak, however, was the representative Alvheim's description of the implementation of the ageing plan. It cannot be undisputed, for the plan of old age was a plan adopted unanimously in the Grand Duchy, and the objectives were unanimous. And the matter of the completion of the retirement plan, which was presented by the previous Minister of Social Affairs, was also unanimously adopted by this great process. If there's something wrong with the objectives in the plan, it's a shared responsibility, because we're all behind the targets. With regard to implementation, it is in fact the Riksrevision’s assessment of the implementation of the parental care action plan concludes that: «It is rare to see so much achievement in general government.» There is a description that is important to include, because there is one field where one has jointly managed to lift an area where one has also achieved its objectives. Among other things, the plan means that one has received 12,000 new annual works in this area. It must also have meant a quality improvement. So in this area, I must almost be allowed to quote the committee leader, John I. Alvheim: The situation is not as bad as we often want it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e128	We have previously discussed one side of the professional level of treatment, care and care in Norwegian nursing homes, which is what is involved in medical coverage. The question of quality and professional level is, of course, much more important than the purely medical professional for which the supervisors have overall responsibility. High professional quality is about many enough employees at work at all times of all kinds of relevant professional groups, so that patients and residents receive the treatment, care and care they experience as good as they do and are given in a timely manner. It's also about the professional quality of the work that is actually done, that it keeps professional goals, and that it's the right things that are actually done. All good quality costs money. If it's important for us to get the best quality of a product, then we're prepared and willing to pay for it. I think most people here will recognize this and agree with it. But for this government and the majority here in this Chamber, the link between price and quality seems to apply in all areas, but with one important exception: public welfare services. In this area, it seems that it is possible to achieve a significant improvement in quality without having to cost a great deal. For my part, it is quite obvious that the link between price and quality also applies to welfare services. We don't get better quality here than what we're willing to pay for. The most important welfare services in Norway are provided in municipalities and municipalities. Thus, the quality of these services depends entirely on the economic potential of municipalities to create this quality. These possibilities are very much determined here in the house. Good management and good organisation are important, but good quality also requires more employees, not fewer, as is now the case in many municipalities because of the local economy of this government. Good quality requires that people endure in the job, not that more people get sick because of the workload, as we see in the care and care sector in the municipalities. Good quality requires a rise in the wage and work conditions of the low-wage and female drug services, which are the backbone of this sector, both to maintain the good professionals we already have, and to be able to recruit new ones. This is essential in order to be able to recruit young people for these important professions. Good quality also requires opportunities for professional development and in-flight renewal in the professional career. Good quality requires full employment for those who wish to do so. All of this has its price. In this area, both the inter-pellant and the Council of State face the same challenge: political will to pay this price.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e139	The overall objective is to provide the users of care for the elderly with professionally sound health care. Two factors are particularly important: recruitment and quality. I agree with the representative Alvheim that the professional level of care in nursing homes must be at an acceptable level. It is not acceptable for our elderly people to receive mismedication and bed ulcers. The reason for this is not only that many caregivers are unskilled. Behind the figures of the representative Alvheim there are several factors that make the image less unambiguous. The SINTEF study commissioned by doctors, nurses and caregivers shows that conditions essential to quality and working environment are clear management, good staff follow-up, a culture of professionalism, skills enhancement, communication and building conditions. I want to highlight good and stable management with a focus on the users, and the commitment that you have to leadership training through the project ‘Good with people’. The availability of nurses is reported to be satisfactory, while the challenge is linked to meeting the needs of caregivers and caregivers. One of the reasons for the great need for help and care personnel is that four out of ten have stopped. Most of these have been re-trained as nurses. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that many increase their competence and further education. Most of those who are unskilled but who are trained as help nurses of advanced age remain in the profession. It shows that it makes sense to invest in qualifying adults who are already working in the care service. Christian People's Party supports that 51 million. NOK of the recruitment plan goes to this. The national audit report on the action plan for the care of the elderly shows that unskilled temporary workers were used in several municipalities pending qualified applicants. This shows that unskilled people make up an important part of the total staff providing care around the clock. Unskilled persons may be students or have other vocational training courses. They stimulate the working environment and often give patients something extra, e.g. an air tour, or addresses spiritual questions. The Christian People's Party wants freedom of choice. Many choose to work part-time for a period of small children. We respect that choice. Today, there are 100,000 people working involuntary part-time, mainly women in the care sector and in the goods trade. The new Work Environment Act proposes to give part-time employees the right to an extended or full-time job rather than a new job in the establishment, if the part-time employee is qualified and does not cause significant disadvantage to the activity. This is a matter for the Christian People's Party is busy and will fight for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e152	The interpellant addresses a very important theme in relation to having a good quality of care for the elderly. We have now had a round of old-age policies that have primarily been marked by a building escalation plan. In this context, one must be able to point out that what the representative Höie said here about the elderly plan, that decisions have been unanimous both at the conclusion of the plan and at the end of the plan, that is not correct. We strongly disagreed on needs and objectives, on how many places we needed in the care of the elderly, and on how many of these places were to be expanded with state co-financing. Now, as far as the next step is concerned, it is gratifying that we agree as much as we are that it is important to focus on the quality notification to the Government and the content of the services. In this context, it is important to have properly qualified personnel and sufficient staff. In that context, this interpellation is very important. I think we're doing something on the surface here when we're talking about how many unskilled we have, and that it's important to follow these up in order for them to take education and get professional development and competence. I think it's important to look at the well-being and opportunities of the workplace to organise this in a good way, with good enough resources. That now one is driving management development is good. But it has to be that there's something to lead, and that one has enough resources to get to a completely good environment, where several things come in, not least this with building conditions, and also that one has a set of tools that can be used in care. I have previously put the search light on an important issue for health professionals, namely tour service. The Minister of Health and Health said that by setting up a tour operator scheme, one might not have saved money in the municipalities, nor was it my intention to take it up. If we are to get staff to apply for regular health care jobs, we need a better rotation system, more in line with shiftwork. In addition, it is important to follow up on the fact that one also has resources for continuing training. It was one of the most important requirements of the Nurses’ Association in the autumn of 2005 when it came to the State budget, which was followed up by the Centre Party. We thought that we should grant this over the state budget, in order to get health professionals into further training.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e163	It was a particular purpose on my part to take up an interpellation of this character in this year when the seniority plan is actually to end, to remind us all that good buildings, good dwellings, are well and good, but the content of care to be provided is even more important. I note with great amazement that representatives of the party that aims to form a new government for the autumn have not found it necessary to participate in a debate like this one. It's quite eye-catching. To the representative Bent Höie, I would say: yes, the targets were found to be met in the audit report, but if you read the report carefully, it also says that the start and execution of the plan would not have taken sufficient account of the weakest of the weakest. 38 400 units were built, at the lower end of 5,000 nursing homes with exclusive rooms, so that at the end of this year we will be left with a waiting list in hospital places of over 12,000. And in 20-30 years, we need between 30,000 and 40,000 new places. There are signals today that indicate that several municipalities are now starting to use the single rooms as multi-bed rooms because of the large pressure from outside, and there is even a municipality that I know especially, which has been approved to build a new hospital – within the plan’s system – with multi-bed rooms. I'm not going to mention the municipality's name. I would otherwise like to say that the debate has been good. All of us have a mind both in our head and in our heart: the elderly sick must get it better evenly than the situation today. We want that, and Norway can afford it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e175	It's kind of the ring is the end-of-situation. The representative Alvheim, the representative of Glötvold and I – and, as far as I remember, also the representative of Signe Øye, who has honored us with his presence now at the end of the debate – were present when we started the work of the Social Committee in the period 1993-1997 with this ageing plan. The representative, Höie, said that there had been a broad consensus. That's right, there was a broad consensus on goals and some ambitions. But that's also true, what Alvheim's representative says, there was disagreement in the committee and in the attitude of dimensioning and ratios, not least between nursing homes and nursing homes. And it can't be stuck under the chair that the representative Alvheim was a strong spokesman for a higher hospital number and had many references initially at that time. As far as I remember, Hill-Marta Solberg was the Minister of Social Affairs at the time. Some of the information the representative of Alvheim had, after all, has shown that he was right, because adjustments have been made in retrospect. But then it's also true, the representative of Höie said, that in the National Audit Office's review of the implementation of the ageing plan it was stated quite specifically that this was one of the major reforms that had had the greatest degree of achievement in relation to its starting point and the corrections that had been made along the way. I just met at the hearing of the Control Committee on the implementation of that plan, and, as most in this Chamber know, the Supervisory Committee usually does not allow the occasion to point out weaknesses in the appointment of government councils in the implementation of what it might be. But there was a broad consensus that it was also done in a good way. So I also think it is right to remember what has been going on in the debate, and which, not least, the representative Alvheim has been faced with, namely future challenges. Because there is no doubt that when we look at demographic developments, when we look at not least at the fact that more and more of the elderly are getting significantly older, when we look at medical developments and the fact that people are being out of hospital earlier, there are some new challenges in hospital size in the municipal sector. I feel pretty sure that when we arrive 15-20 years in time, we also have something that is in the middle of the first- and second-line service, not least in relation to the elderly. In conclusion, I would just like to thank the inter-pellant for the debate, for the initiative and for perhaps having a ring in the end-situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e186	Then we have concluded the interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e200	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e207	The matter is basically a proposal from the representative Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to put in place a system whereby persons who invite persons from a country subject to visas to Norway must provide a bank guarantee...’. I have to say that the matter has created great waves, and that at a time when the committee of course has not decided anything. It surprises me, but of course it's great that organizations and individuals get involved in issues that get involved in Stortinget. But what I think is a bit funny and interesting about this matter – because the whole Storting is actually behind the proposal – is noticing what is in the media that is going on in the hesitant suggestions, etc. But when that is said, it is, of course, true that the members of the Committee and the various parties may have different motivations to support such a proposal. But I think the committee is very much interested in the government coming back with a case where we will see both the weak sides and possible restrictions on tourist visas and visitor visas. So there's something different interpretation and emphasis in the committee. I believe that the various representatives in the Committee will explain that. It is also important to point out that some restrictions have already been introduced in relation to that type of visa. I am just pointing to it with health insurance and with the tax, which has also been shown to have given results in part. I would like to say that there is also reason to respond to those who may have to criticise such a proposal, in particular organisations that are responsible for ensuring legal certainty and regulation in relation to that type of case, when one uses tourist visas, visit visas, as a tool for asylum in a country. Then I think we're on wild roads. Of course, that's not why we're introducing that kind of rules. Everyone understands that asylum is a right. However, using the Visa tool to obtain asylum will at least distance the Advance Party from it. This is also why the Progress Party is promoting its own proposal – which I believe could have made the issue of tourist visas and visas a little easier – to do what other countries in Europe consider or have assessed, and it is simply a fact that it is illegal to apply for asylum on the basis of having had access to the country through a visa application. It could also have been possible in such cases to clarify and establish that an asylum application should have been made at the various foreign stations, in order to avoid this problem. It may not be the world's biggest problem, I just have to admit it. It was something like 140 people who used that kind of opportunity to apply for asylum. But it's clear that the possibility lies there, and we don't know anything about the future in relation to that either. The Committee was also visiting Pakistan, where the problem was addressed by our EEA staff. I think it is important that we get a case from the Government, so that we can see whether it is possible to make changes to the legislation. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e231	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e234	The Labour Party believes that there is an unacceptable length of procedure to obtain a visa to Norway. Many who want to come here as tourists, or who want to visit family and friends in Norway, have to wait for months. Many also refuse the visa application. In order to reduce the processing time for visa applications and to facilitate the granting of visas, the Workers' Party, as part of a unanimous municipal committee in the setting, has asked the Government to establish a possible new regime for the treatment of tourist visas. The experience from Denmark is that more people receive visas than before after the introduction of a bank guarantee scheme for visa seekers from some countries. The Danish authorities say that these are applications that would otherwise have been rejected, because they are applicants with weak return assumptions – young unmarried persons with little connection to their home country through work, education or family. The Labour Party believes that the problem with the Norwegian system today is that very many tourists are denied visas because the Norwegian authorities fear that they will not return after the visa date expires. For example: Today, 20 years old, unmarried and from Sri Lanka, a visa application is likely to be refused. We therefore believe that the aim must be to create a system that best prevents some from using the system, but which at the same time works so as not to hit ordinary tourists. We believe that any guarantee scheme – I repeat, if any – would give those who are being refused today a new opportunity to obtain a visa. Therefore, there is reason to ask the government to investigate the matter. The working party has neither concluded whether we want to introduce a bank guarantee nor concluded on the size of any guarantee. What we've done is ask the government to investigate different arrangements, including: a bank guarantee according to the Danish model. The requirement for a bank guarantee of a certain size has, of course, its negative aspects. It's clear. When the government comes back with its assessments, we're going to decide what's on the table. But in such a model, there has to be a faster and easier way to get a visa than we have today. The Workers' Party does not support the proposal of the Advance Party to prohibit those on tourist visas from applying for asylum. The right of asylum is an inviolable human right. The Workers' Party takes note that the Advance Party does not accept it. Nor is it the case that the representative Simonsen gets a majority in favour of his proposal, which one could have had the impression of after countless speeches in the media on this matter. If Simonsen's proposal is taken up, the Labour Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e251	This Document No The 8 proposal has been handled wisely by the Council of State, and she has been present. The conclusion is that the proposal is worth clarifying. Taking into account all the examples we have from Everyday Norway where there is criticism of the handling of visa applications, I am pleased that we can go further and get Document No. The 8th proposal. The starting point is the visa policy we have here in the country. We follow the Schengen acquis; Norway is bound by it by international law. However, with regard to our own handling of the process of applying for a tourist visa, it is twofold. One applies to discretion, the other applies to conditions. When it comes to judgement, you can look at the underlying issues of immigration policy and look at the return assumptions. It's the way it's being rejected for groups that you don't think will return. I think it is okay to assess how to exercise the discretion in these matters. The second point applies to conditions. That's right, as Per Sandberg says, we have introduced new conditions during this ageing period. From the outset, it was necessary to require valid travel documents and return access and to require funds for both travel and stay. Then, from 1 June 2004, it was introduced to require valid travel and health insurance, and from 1 July 2004, a treatment fee was introduced. Many people, in fact, believe that we have a strict visa policy. But there are still anchor points, and there are two main anchor points. One is — and we also know from experience from various cases — that tourist visas can be abused, just for asylum applications. The second point of appeal is that many people regard the visa treatment as too strict and too difficult — complicated and bureaucratic, it is said. And it's true, as Signe Eye says, that many people who should have probably come to Norway have problems getting a tourist visa. This, I think, is very good that we're looking at, that we're looking at whether there's a balance in the treatment of tourist visas. Whether or not we will end up with a guarantee amount, we do not yet know. This is now to be investigated, and then we will get back to that and to any other changes in the procedure. It's worth doing. In conclusion, I have to say that I am greatly surprised by all the media reviews that have been on this matter. The matter could not have been properly understood by the media; here one has concluded far too early. But I attend to the further work of the Council of State on this, and take it as a matter of course that the Council of State takes a broad review and evaluates all the counter-representations and appeals that have come in. In fact, I think many of them are timely to consider and take seriously. I want to draw up one point of appeal, and it comes from the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Council, which points to what a large amount of guarantee will mean negatively compared to young people who will come to the country – that it affects young people – and not least in relation to international organisational cooperation. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State will take care of this, and that she will take a closer look at all the different moments that have come in. I just want to finish by saying that in the Right we are meeting the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e272	One of the things that immigrates here in Norway is how often they have trouble getting friends and family to visit. It costs money to apply for a visa – everyone decided – except SV, here at Stortinget last year, and before you paid only if you got it – it's bureaucratic, it takes a long time, and often you get a rejection. Last year, about 12,500 people were refused their visa application. It is clear that this is about integration and inclusion policies. It has to be easier to get a visa, especially it has to be easier for people who have been here to visit earlier and then to leave the country again, to get a visa the next time they apply. It's about being able to maintain good contact with friends and family. I think – and this is especially for the Government, who wants a positive labour migration to Norway in the first place – the frustration of visas is one of the things that actually makes people who have come to Norway and who live here continue to feel a little welcome. There were about 77,500 people who got a visa last year. So now the majority will investigate whether these 77,500 people have to provide a total of $3.8 billion in guarantees to get here to the country. That's what I think. The majority justify this because there are gaps in today's way of getting visas, and the gaps they're talking about are that some people who are here with visas are applying for asylum. Last year I think there were more than 140 people applying for asylum. So it's like the majority thinks it's necessary to figure out if you're going to set up $3.8 billion in guarantees for these. That's what I think. We will have investigated a system of guarantees as a complement to today's visa regime. We need to reduce the processing time in order to obtain a visa. We have to make it easier. But in addition, there will always be some people who probably don't get a visa. For those people there should be an alternative way to get here. We think it would make sense to figure out a system as a supplement. There is no doubt that the guarantee of NOK 50000 is too high. In my opinion, the main point of appeal to this is the class implications, that is, that people with poor advice are at risk of not being able to provide guarantees to get friends and family to visit. I would like to say one thing: the focus on this policy and this proposal is to prevent people from applying for asylum in Norway. It is in order to limit immigration, to limit the ability of foreigners to visit. Signe Eye said something that was wrong. She said 160 people don't carry the correctness – Signe Eye didn't mention a number. – that is the number that comes from the Danish government – extra had come to Denmark. Yeah, that's what the Danish authorities say. But the Danish authorities say nothing about how many fewer people have come after the introduction of this guarantee scheme. I'm pretty sure if you put this in place as a mandatory system, it'll be just like LNU and a lot of others have reacted to: fewer people in Norway can get visits from friends and relatives. So what happens is that in Europe we are making asylum more difficult and more difficult. Erna Solberg is herself a lady who was concerned about bringing down the number of groundless asylum seekers to Norway, to become one who is concerned about bringing down the number of asylum seekers to Norway. Obviously, what we're doing in Europe is shutting people out. I want to ask a simple question to Per Sandberg. If people are to be denied asylum, as they suggest – the Progress Party is always the driest – when they have a visa, and in addition, people are opposed to being allowed to enter the country illegally and apply for asylum, then my question is: Who in the world is the Progress Party going to get into the country to apply for asylum? How in the world are they going to do this in a way that the Progress Party will be satisfied with? I am very concerned about the proposal of the Progress Party in relation to foreign stations. I'm positive that you should be able to apply from foreign stations. The progress party here is going diametrically against what their Danish friends did, because the first thing they did when they came to power was to remove this arrangement. But I would like to discuss it with Per Sandberg if we can introduce it in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e303	The Christian People's Party, like the Signe Eye of the Workers' Party, stated on behalf of the Workers' Party, that there is an unacceptablely long waiting time/handling time to obtain a visa to Norway. A short time ago, I had a meeting with a Northman who had worked a long time in an African country. He had sought visas for his child's mother. The application had been rejected. He was told that the anchor on this rejection would take eight months. His son is Norwegian. Before any appeal period expires, this couple will be married and likely to solve the problem this way. This is unacceptable. In recent years, visa policies have been tightened up in some countries. It is necessary for Norway to follow up its obligations under international law contained in the Schengen cooperation. Norway also needs some control and regulation of who comes to visit the country, and we need to ensure that visas are not abused. However, it is clear that for people from some parts of the world it now appears that tightening has gone too far. Among other things, it has become almost impossible to visit Norway if you come from some developing countries, you are young, unemployed and not married. The proposal by the representative Simonsen to allow a bank guarantee to be provided by the person inviting a person from a country subject to visas has been made by some in the media as an attempt to further tighten visa policy. However, this presentation is far from what has been the Christian People's Party's justification for supporting an investigation of the proposal. On the contrary, the Christian People's Party believes it would be useful to explore new possibilities for liberalising visa rules, especially if this can be done in ways that meet the need for necessary control. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is in the long run unsustainable if people in Norway are not to be able to accept relatives and friends visiting, and for some this is said to be their new country of origin. The Christian People's Party will also stress that what we are asking for is an investigation. Indeed, there is reason to be cautious about introducing rules that may have adverse consequences. For example, there may be a risk that the inviter may be subjected to pressure or that he is not financially capable of meeting a redemption requirement. Nor does the Christian People's Party wish to be part of a system that limits the possibility of seeking asylum for applicants who have a genuine need for protection. So when the representative Heikki Holmås talks about the majority, as if we all want a tightening up, that's not the right thing. On the other hand, we welcome the fact that the proposal has been examined precisely so that it can be a supplement, and that the ministry will come back with the investigation and any proposal in the next major session. The Danish model has been mentioned earlier in the debate. According to what was stated in the Evening Post on February 26, the Danish authorities say that since October 1st, 160 persons who have received a visa are mainly young single persons with little connection to their home country through work or family. They come to Denmark from countries we experience have many asylum seekers from. Most of those who have received the new visa are either from Turkey or Thailand, and no one has so far tried to quit in Denmark, so that the bank guarantee of $50,000 has been confiscated. This would indicate that it is worth investigating this, and that is not how the representative Holmås accuses some of us others of thinking. We're thinking for ourselves!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e322	It sounds reassuring!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e325	As a result of Schengen membership, Norway has introduced visa obligations from several countries with the following paperwork, with more detailed procedures for those who will visit Norway. The centre party fully agrees that the processing time is too long for visa applications. We also found that there is a number of examples showing that the very practice of the legislation on whom visas are actually given is too strict and too narrow. We are disunity in a system of a bank guarantee. I was surprised at the openness and the positive hold, as I see it in the plural setting in relation to a distribution. As I said, I'm very pleased that several parties today are signaling that this is going to make them think very well through. I haven't signaled in the committee that I disagree that we're getting an explanation. I thought in my silent mind that this does not benefit from turning anyway. Then it's important to get this done, so we can look at all of the sides of this. This must be a system that will frame arbitrarily; residents who want to visit family, organisations that carry out dignified international exchange work; and meetings of various kinds where one strengthens understanding and respect for each other. Then it has been used as an example from the recent media lookup that if Norway were to follow Denmark, which the Committee has not initially rejected, and Denmark has a claim of $50,000 in bank guarantees, this could mean that Norway Cup has to set up 50 million. kr in bank guarantee for young footballers from different countries. I find a reason to remind you that from a lot of people in Norway, there is an increased travel life effort. Most of us like to visit other countries and cultures. It may seem quite strange, literally, to want to put new obstacles in the way of people who want to visit Norway. I think that the distribution will allow organizations, families, companies and study collaborations to tell the ministry each shoe really prints, that it's in a completely different place, that it's actually in the process itself. So I find reason to remind both Per Sandberg and others that Norway has a commitment, like other countries in the world, that it is possible to seek asylum. There is an undertone here that asylum seekers in Norway should be treated as criminals. We can't have it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e345	When this matter was presented in the press a few weeks ago, it was stated that the motive behind today's proposal was to tighten the right to asylum. It encountered a resistance for which the Left understands. The right of asylum is fundamental. The best way to prevent the misuse of the asylum facility is to allow for more orderly labour immigration, including for unskilled people from outside the EEA. On the other hand, the left has a strong sense of what the proposer says: ‘Norway as a tourist nation should not exclude persons from visited Norway. Norwegian citizens and persons authorised to reside in Norway should also be able to invite friends and family members to visit.’ The liberal dream society is a society in which, of course, there is no passport. Unfortunately, there are many examples of the fact that the enforcement of current visa rules is not what the proposer says. After working part of the problem, it is obvious to us that the concept of ‘policy considerations for immigration’ is too much invoked to say no to legitimate visits, because the visitor comes from the wrong country, has wrong sex or has wrong age. All parties on the Stortinget have received enquiries about what is perceived as unreasonable decisions: for example, a Filipino-born Norwegian citizen who was not invited to help his sister with a twin birth, or the foreign student who was not allowed to invite his girlfriend to greet his family and see the home, or an au pair who, after two years, was not allowed to come on a certificate to keep in touch with the child she had cared for, and the family otherwise. And we read in Dagbladet about the Norwegian founder Øystein Schjetne, who said goodbye to Norway after he was denied a visa for his Latin American fiancée. We also know that there is considerable frustration among well-integrated immigrants in Norway who do not receive close relatives on visits, for example. for weddings or other important family events. Often these rejections are in stark contrast to the hospitality and friendship of the Norwegian family in many other countries. There are, of course, some dilemmas here, because some have abused the tourist visa to stay, either by seeking asylum, moving on to other Schengen countries or by other means. However, the figures show that this is by no means a very big problem. We take Simonsen's proposal positively in the sense that there can be some stricter control of compliance with the visa rules and that a tourist visa obliges both the visitor and the host to comply with the rules. The left has long advocated a level playing field between different schemes, including the need for immigrants to be honest, so that fewer people try their way through asylum without sufficient reason. Similarly, a clearer regime around tourist visas can help to reduce its abuse. This will prevent a few from contributing to rules that affect the many who have important and legitimate reasons for visits. It seems to us that organisations which have expressed themselves unilaterally against this proposal, because it was supposed to be justified by an increase in the right to asylum, underestimate the importance of having a more liberal approach to visas. If more people are to obtain visas, control of non-abuse must also be improved. The left is initially sceptical about bank guarantee, especially if it is given a size that allows only wealthy people with good banking connections to receive visits. We believe that the current system of guarantees for residence expenses and return journeys must be sufficient, especially if the control of the practice is strengthened and if there is actually evidence and reporting of a return journey. This also means that authorities need to step up their procedures in dealing with visa applications and to implement individual treatment of applicants and hosts. The Civil Ombudsman has made a critical statement that this does not happen, and there is reason to take this criticism inward. We must not treat single women, young women without permanent work and from countries subject to visas collectively as potential illegal immigrants. Rather, misuse of tourist visas could prevent future visits and the possibility of contact with those in whom you are happy. Few will have an interest in the misuse of the scheme, and some who may have to do so may have real grounds for seeking protection. A bank guarantee scheme can also, as many others have mentioned, lead to problems for organisations that invite guests to the country, if this is implemented in a stupid way. The left is in favour of the Government setting up a system to facilitate and speed up the provision of tourist visas to Norway, but the list should not be added to make it easier for only a small group. Nor should it create increasing problems for organisations cooperating with countries with which the Stortinget wants to encourage cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e376	I think it is desirable to have as flexible a visa policy as possible, balancing the needs and needs of foreigners to visit Norway, the needs of people living in Norway to have contact with their families, and the control and regulation needs of Norwegian authorities. That is why I have also been amazed at the media debate that has come, at least on the basis of what I believe the majority has expressed, namely that they have endorsed what I wrote in a letter to the Committee of 5 November 2004, where I have expressed my willingness to discuss a system in the light of a desire for a more liberal visa policy. The whole of that letter is based on the fact that this is what it's all about. I'm a little surprised that someone thinks you're necessarily e.g. to provide a bank guarantee for everyone to take in SEK 3.8 billion for everyone who comes. There are, of course, many possibilities for different flexible solutions within this. Now there are several issues that are important in relation to visa policy. Firstly, we are bound by international law within Schengen. This means that our visa policy must be within the framework of other countries. Norway has a different visa policy from that of Denmark before introducing the new regime. We basically have a more individualised and more liberal policy, while Denmark has had a more group-oriented policy. It is therefore possible that Denmark does not have a more liberal policy than we already have per year. the date of issue. The most important thing is not whether or not people are jumping off and seeking asylum. It's probably a small group that does. But there are a lot of people who are illegal. Many of those who live illegally in Europe have at one time had a visa that they have crossed the border with, or a document containing an apparent visa. One of the most important things we do in the Schengen area at the moment is to establish the Visa and Information System VIS, which will become a central visa database within the EU and Schengen, and which will be operational by 1 January 2007. The use of the VIS will facilitate the identification of illegal immigrants. This will facilitate the procedure for compulsory returns, because then you will have a data base for the identity of the people we know today is difficult to return. We have therefore said from the Ministry and the Government that we do not think it is appropriate to implement any new guarantees and other arrangements until we have the VIS inside. It is possible that the VIS will provide the type of information that makes it less natural to introduce bank guarantees. One of the things the VIS can give us is a much faster procedure with regard to the curative matters, about people who have been in and out of the country many times. One of the problems per year. The current date is that as long as you do not have a proper computer system, you have problems finding out, and it takes a lot of time to clarify all the so-called curative issues. Another thing is that even if you have had a lot of visas, of course, it doesn't say anything about when you've left the country again, because we're missing this type of computer system today. That means that people who have been in and out, during that time may have traveled across the borders many times. That's why I think there's been a lot of pressure in this debate about it being particularly restrictive. I believe that the majority of the population have wanted to be somewhat more liberal, especially with regard to those countries where we have return problems. When we return, there are still many countries with which we have major identification and return problems. And we have to remember one thing: it's not just an access to Norway it's about when someone gets a visa. There is access to the Schengen area, which, if not for too long, is likely to be made up of 22 countries in Europe, and we have a commitment to them. I therefore believe that there may be reasons to consider whether we should investigate a Danish scheme. For my part, I have not said that we should put in place such a system, or that we should not introduce it. My wish is that we should be able to have a balance between control considerations and being somewhat more liberal. I'm experiencing exactly the same simple stories and enquiries that Trine Skei Grande just explained, as a problem. In a multicultural society, it is that we should also be better able to allow the minorities of the population to have closer contact with their families, including the young unmarried, who are often those who are not admitted. At the same time, when we have a common area as large as the European Schengen area at the moment, I have no doubt that the control problems are something we also have to deal with, because we have obligations both to ourselves and to others. I really expect other countries, too, to take their obligations in the context of Schengen cooperation seriously in relation to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e395	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e398	The aim of this proposal has been to reduce the risk of misuse of the tourist visa scheme, to come to Norway as tourists and to take the opportunity to apply for political asylum, or simply to remain in Europe as illegal refugees. We do that by adding a little more responsibility to the people who invite guests to Norway, that they not only, as today, have to guarantee stay, diet and lodging, but actually also get a certain responsibility for the invited guests going home at the time they are going to. I believe that the Committee has dealt with this proposal in a sensible way. It is obvious that there are a number of things that need to be investigated a little, which I may not have thought well enough through, and which one should look at, for example, the countries to which it applies. Is it necessary that this applies to all countries with tourist visa obligations? What about Russians who travel to the churches almost daily and trade? What about people who come from democratic states, from which it has never happened that they have applied for asylum in Norway? Perhaps it should be restricted to those countries from which there is a significant risk of people jumping off, and we know, of course, which countries it is. Then you should think about the amount a little bit. It should not be so high that it will be difficult to set aside the money. It should not be so low that losing money does not result in any significant discomfort. I think maybe 50 000 kroner, which you have in Denmark, is a bit too high. What about families or larger groups? Football days for the Norway Cup are mentioned. It goes without saying that it's not necessary to take NOK 30000 or NOK 50000 per person. football player and then multiply up. It is possible to find appropriate solutions. It is only a purely practical question and, in my opinion, cannot be used as an argument against the proposal. If it turns out that such a bank guarantee scheme will reduce the risk of abuse, it will also make it easier for the UDI to say yes to more applicants for a tourist visa to Norway. So two positive things have been achieved at the same time: the abuse has been reduced, and more tourists have been given – several Nordics can be visited by their relatives and friends. At least I want a tighter asylum policy and a more liberal tourism policy. No one has anything against tourists coming to Norway, and that people live here for two to three months to visit relatives and friends. But you just don't want them to take advantage of this opportunity to stay here forever, or in months and years. So this proposal serves two purposes. That is why, with all due respect, I think that this is not a stupid proposal at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e411	I won't take the debate out, but I felt the need to make one comment and one question to Erna Solberg. All of us in the committee realized that what Jan Simonsen was now saying from the pulpit was the intention of the proposal. Then everyone here in the hall has spent the time afterwards to spray down just this message that Jan Simonsen came with. If you read what the majority says and use as an argument in the setting, you see that they don't use Erna Solberg's argument. They say the following: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party, see that today’s system has weaknesses and that there is a real danger that some will try to exploit the opportunities within tourist visas. At the same time, the majority believe that the treatment period for obtaining visas should be reduced. In the view of the majority, it must be an objective to create a system that best prevents abuse but at the same time ensures that not ordinary tourists are hit. In this context, the majority may find it interesting to look at opportunities related to the Danish model of bank guarantees.’ So there is not a single word here on liberalisation. There's not a single word here that we want it to be easier for more people to get a visa. That's why there's been a debate in the media. I would like to underline that. Then I hear that the Christian People's Party says they think for themselves. Of course, it's always worrying that a party has to say that you think for yourself. But don't do that. For the discussion on what would happen if we introduced the Danish system in Norway: The Danish system assumes that these are the countries from which most asylum seekers come. In Denmark, there are 34 countries. If you were to take the countries from which most asylum seekers came to Norway in 2004, it is Afghanistan and Somalia, and then it is Russia in third place. Russia is responsible for one third of visa applications to Norway. If we were to introduce a guarantee scheme for them, in the same way as we have done in Denmark, it would trigger a ramsichord and be the final shot for the bow in terms of barn cooperation and other cooperation in the northern areas between Russia and Norway. So I think that's completely out of date, and I'm assuming that Erna Solberg is also taking it. But I have a question for Erna Solberg at the end, because she said we won't make any big changes until 2007, as I understood her. Then my question is this: you say it's hard, because we don't really have an overview of who's going out. But we have an overview of who it is that has searched before and got. Don't we? We need to have an overview of them. If we look at which countries it is that have major problems, it is among other things. Pakistan. There are many Pakistani people who are being rejected. Among those Pakistani people are many who have friends and family in Norway. If you see that they've got a visa before, why can't you agree to this? Isn't it more important to be nice with one too much than to hit for many families in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e427	The President must remind the representative that he must address his speech to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e430	It is clear that there are two parties that want full treatment, and that have concluded in this case, and that is SV and the Center Party. And that's real enough. Then we know where these two parties stand when there has to be a case back to Stortinget at some later time. The rest of the Stortinget wants a broader assessment of this matter, gain a little more competence, find weaknesses and strengthen it with any changes. The vast majority, apart from the SV and the Center Party, have at least stated that we have no intention of demanding $50,000 in the guarantee of anyone applying for a tourist visa to Norway. It's just the Center Party and the SV that are concerned about, I understand. It's pretty inexcusable, to say it like that. One just has to respect that the SV and the Central Party believe that those who get no will get a yes. There is a question of whether there is at all a need to regulate by visa, whether it is a tourist or a visitor visa – or the institution of asylum at all – if everyone who receives no is to be accepted. Because that's the intention of these parties. I received a direct question from the representative Holmås about applications at foreign stations. Another proposal that the Progress Party is willing to discuss, and which is now also being discussed in the EU, is whether or not asylum camps should be established in line with refugee camps, so that asylum applications can be dealt with in a wider context, where the whole of Europe is involved and discusses whether or not they are genuine asylum seekers. That's one of our intentions. Then it is that when you apply for a tourist visa or a visitor's visa, each one is judged in relation to the application. On the basis of this, a rapid finding out whether these persons are in a situation where they are to use the institution of asylum or not. My point is that those applying for a tourist visa and a visitor visa are not asylum seekers. They do not need asylum, and they will indirectly abuse the institution of asylum, which is very important for the Progress Party. It's very important. For SV and the Center Party, it doesn't matter. They want to pulverize the institution of asylum, while we believe that it is of paramount importance. It is not like the representative of Meltveit Kleppa is trying to present it, that we look at all asylum seekers as criminals. No, we want to get out. We will deal with the applications from those who really need protection, and we will get rid of those who just abuse the institution of asylum. And the majority abuse the asylum institute. So we're going to look at the number of negatives. There is only a minimum number of people staying with a background in the asylum institute. That is what is the basis for our appearance here. Nor do we hide our desire for simplification, but at the same time we also want to tighten up and protect the institution of asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e443	In a country that recognises that you can be persecuted by a third party as a member of a social group or other — and that is Norwegian law and Norwegian understanding of the right to asylum — it is not possible to deduce that if you have received a visa once or have a travel document from your country that allows you to obtain a visa, there is no legitimate reason to apply for asylum. It's actually like that in this country, just because we accept that you can be persecuted by a third person. Legal departure from the country does not necessarily signal the absence of asylum, for there are several reasons for asylum in Norway. Let me say, of course, that you can choose what you want to pay attention to. I can say, on behalf of the two governmental parties represented in the Committee, that they have, I believe, at least based on the letter I sent to the Committee, in view of the fact that this is in that case part of the liberalisation of visa policy. I agree that there will still be many countries for which we want special visa arrangements. There is no doubt that we are, for example, for Russia, there is a significantly more liberal visa practice because it is a neighbouring country, than we have too many other countries where we might still say that there are some similar problems. Now, the main emphasis of asylum seekers from Russia is on the other Chechen background, so it is not really comparable to these issues. So no one has been asked to follow the system that Denmark has, but more thought has been given to the use of a guarantee to be able to liberalize for some groups. I record that some immigrant organisations have been strongly opposed to this proposal when they have expressed their opinion. I have met many immigrants who have said to me: If I guarantee to sort this out, if I guarantee it if you stay longer and I have the opportunity to do so, why don't I be allowed to do so instead of not having my brother-in-law or cousin of my wife or others allowed to visit at all? In this way, my experience is that this has been a matter of being able to take a little more financial responsibility, and that it has been a wish of some minority population in return for a more liberal visa policy. So just to answer the question that Heikki Holmås asked, 'Do you not have an overview of who has received a visa today?' Well, it's a little bit harder to figure out in this overview. It's harder to follow up if people have traveled out. With a new database system you get it right up there and there, and then you get visa processing faster. Practice is often that people who have traveled sometimes get visas much easier than others who are first-time applicants, who get longer trial periods.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e456	There are some claims that are hanging in the air after this debate. So I feel the need to just say a few more words. First of all, what this case is based on is questions of bank guarantee in relation to tourist visas. Secondly, everyone in the Committee stresses, including the proposer in its Document No. 8 proposals that there is a need for simplification in the case of applicant animals, and there is a need for a more rapid procedure. I am very pleased that the Council of State saw the search light on it. So this proposal has weight responses. Why is that? It's because there are families who have been very surprised by the suspicion that happens when someone they're related to is looking for a visa. So there are organizations and people who are involved in international cooperation, who have reacted. It's because they have experience both with the same suspicion and, of course, a very long treatment period, and that has been some incomprehensible rejections. Then the Progress Party has put forward a proposal: The biggest thing asks the government to come back to the Stortinget with a law change that ‘forbids those entering the country on a tourist visa’. So it's the Progress Party itself that makes criminals of people who come to Norway, maybe visiting relatives and friends, and, as they go on the road, they find out that they want to take advantage of the possibility that is today to seek asylum. I would like to say on behalf of the Centre Party – and I can also say it on behalf of SV, there are other things going on – that we have an asylum and refugee policy, both of these parties, which are largely in line with the plurality of this hall. But it must be allowed in this context to signal that one is inconsistent with the proposal for a bank guarantee, without one drawing the conclusions that Per Sandberg has now tried to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e467	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e483	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e490	In St.meld. No 11 for 2004-2005, on the Annual Report of the Sameting for 2003, gives the Government feedback on the Annual Report. It deals with a continuation of the matters that have been raised. It deals in particular with cooperation with central authorities, between government and unification, and does not promote new measures that have economic or administrative implications. The Committee opens with a comitology note that one is satisfied that the annual report has been included as a separate chapter, just at the request of the Leniency Committee. But here it is also the end of the committee, except that from the end, where an overall committee recommends that the roll-out notification be annexed to the protocol. All parties in the Committee shall be composed of the most important parties in relation to the annual report of the Sameting, except the Progress Party, which shall take the notification for information and briefly repeat its main view that the Sameting should be closed. The majority, the other parties, see it as positive that the Government has stressed a commitment to Sami language development, including, among other things, support for the development of the Sami proof-reading programme, the establishment of Sami language aspects on ODIN, the competence base for Sami languages and IT, the plan for the translation of laws into Sami, measures to improve access to public sector interpreters, the Nordic Sami language prize, the development of Sami legal terminology and the extension of the management area for Sami languages. The merger concerns the impact of wind power development, and the Government says it will develop guidelines for wind power plant planning and location. Sustainable development is sought and other land and social interests are taken into account. The majority assume that local and regional authorities are consulted. The Communication mentions the completion of the Árran Lulesamian Centre in 2003. This institution was solemnly opened in 2004 by His Royal Highness Crown Prince Haakon Magnus. The committee was invited, and I had the pleasure of being present with another member of the committee and greeting both the committee and the magnificence. I also had the opportunity to comment on what the committee has been dealing with in the past, namely a lulesamic intrusion in the local way. The Committee also examines Saemien Sijte in Snåsa, and a unanimous committee mentioned this at the beginning of the Budget. S. No 5 for 2004–2005, where the Government was asked to give priority to this institution. The majority are asking for a new government to work to get the development in place as soon as possible. The majority also look at the possibility of development for newspapers directed at the Norwegian-speaking part of the Sami population and underline its importance, while the majority also asks the Government to facilitate the financing of a new Southern Sami mailbox. The Committee was involved in the financial management of the Sameting. This was also included in the budget-inner. S. No 5 for 2004-2005, and by letter of 21 January to the Committee of State Council Solberg it was noted that a working group had been set up with two representatives from Sametinget, two from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and two from the National Audit Office, which had observation status. It was given a mandate, and I would like to quote from one of the points of the mandate: ‘In particular, consider the need for changes in the working capacity and role of the Supervisory and Administrative Committee of the Sameting in the light of the position of the Municipal Committee in B. at the end. S. No 5 [[2004-2005]] I'm glad that this has been followed up, which the majority are also satisfied with. Not least, I am pleased that this is also being followed by Sametinget now, which on 17 February wanted a job vacancy as an inspector with an application deadline of 10 March, where some of the tasks are to strengthen, further develop and streamline the internal control system, including the development of good practice and analytical, reporting and control systems. On behalf of the government parties and the majority of the committee, I am delighted to recommend the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e521	Last year, the Municipal Committee examined two broad communications on the principles of common policy. In this respect, the Committee and the various parties expressed their views on the various issues, and I refer to this. In this context, it is natural for me to just point to some points in the setting. One is the importance of focusing on Sami culture as part of an overall national cultural boost. There is reason to note the clear criticism of the Swedish Council's cultural announcement by the Bondevik government, where, among other things. pronunciation: ‘In the Communication, the Government tries to create a picture of the observance of the cultural policy priorities for Sami culture. We strongly disagree with this. We believe that the Government in the Communication fails to draw up the main lines of cultural policy for Sami culture in the coming decade.’ The Workers' Party believes that it is important to focus on Sami culture. That is why we have also supported increased appropriations for that purpose. Like the case rapporteur, I would like to point out that a very broad majority of the committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, have underlined the importance of investing in newspapers that are geared towards the Norwegian-speaking part of the Sami population. Here, this broad majority has also referred to comments in a similar setting last year based on the Sameting media survey of 2000, which showed that about half of the voters in the Sameting elections do not understand Sami, and that about half of the Sami-speaking half cannot read Sami. Thus, up to 3/4 of the voters of the Sameting are dependent on the availability of written information in Norwegian, in order for them to understand the content. The majority of the Committee therefore took into account and underlined the importance of allowing for development also for newspapers directed at the Sami population who writes and read Norwegian. I would like to emphasise that, and I would ask the Council of State to include this broad recommendation from the majority of the Committee to the Minister of Culture, who is, of course, constitutionally responsible for this area, where the majority assumes that there is a possibility of development also for newspapers directed against the Norwegian-speaking part of the Sami population. I also allow myself to point out that the majority have pointed out that the South Sami book bus has been disbanded, and that it will be crucial for the maintenance of the bookbus offer in the southern Sami area that it is being invested in a new bus. The majority here have asked the Government to facilitate the financing of a new Southern Sami mailbox, in line with letters from Sametinget. I ask the Council of State to bring it too. Like the rapporteur, I stress the importance of ensuring that the financial management of the Sameting must be carried out in a satisfactory manner. The Committee has taken note of the presentation made by the Council of State on the establishment of a working group to deal with these issues. I assume that both the Sameting itself and the Government have a broad focus on correcting the weaknesses identified in the financial management, and taking measures that are suitable for ensuring financial management.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e539	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e556	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e573	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e590	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e606	The issue of increased efforts to create jobs in the fishing industry and in the areas affected by unemployment in the fishing industry in Finnmark was widely addressed in connection with the re-salesing of the budget for the previous year. I refer to the comments and suggestions made by the Workers' Party there, on an effort of 150 million. kr. I also refer to the Workers' Party's proposal for the disposal of these funds. I assume that the Minister of State will take the necessary action as soon as possible and request that they be implemented in accordance with the recommendations made by the Labour Party in its comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e611	Since the case spokesperson, Einar Steensnæs, could not be present today, I will say a few words about Document No. 8:30 a.m. by Odd Roger Enoksen, Marit Arnstad and Åslaug Haga on measures to secure and create new jobs in Finnmark based on marine resources. There is a comprehensive committee that sees Finnmark facing a number of important challenges in the development of the marine sector. Some parts of business face major challenges. International competition is growing and trade patterns are changing. This selects a good one in many industries and industries. Not least selects it well in individual districts and regions. The situation experienced by Finnmark shows this, but he also shows how complex and complex the challenge is. A growing number of industries and industries experience international competition. The difference is that smaller communities and regions could be more vulnerable to major changes based on the given economic structure they have. Growth in industry depends on good projects and investments. Good projects and investments provide jobs and job creation. At the same time, it may be a challenge to do this in all parts of the country. Therefore, a good general and selective tool is needed in both nutrition and district policy. The Committee points out that the disappearance of Russian cod to the processing plants in Finnmark, competition from low-cost countries and the necessary capacity adjustments both at sea and on land have created problems for the industry. There seemed to be no discrepancy about what is the situation description for Finnmark. The challenge lies in how they can change. Finnmark is well under way, and even if the marine industry is, and will be, the main weight of Finnmark's business, there are also other industries, such as tourism, which can contribute to further business development and value creation. New market opportunities towards Russia can become very interesting, and not least when Russia becomes a member of the WTO. Although the situation in Finnmark today is tough, there is a positive signal from parts of Finnmark’s business, among others. developments in the labour market are good. Based on the sum of challenges that Finnmark is facing, the budget raised 75 million. to national regional development measures to create new employment in Coastal Finland – this to facilitate new jobs in some particularly difficult municipalities in order to remedy a serious situation of redundancy and job losses and relocation. Here I would like to refer to the various parties' comments and suggestions in the budgetary configuration. The Committee has not incorporated the specific proposals in Document No. The 8 proposal, but has referred to the funds that have been pledged, and the announcement of marine value creation, where one can see the proposal in conjunction with the discussion of the overarching policy of marine value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e628	After all, the Minister for Fisheries will shortly present a major report on marine value creation, which will receive appropriate treatment here in Stortinget. I think the working case rapporteur has duly commented on what is a, relative, unison treatment of that document. The 8th proposal that is on the agenda today. But I would warn against now, as we have seen significant trends, linking the issues we have, and the challenges that Finnmark faces – not least in the fishing industry, and especially in the fishing industry – to the dawning and upcoming election campaign. It was the representative of Schjøtt-Pedersen who made me take the floor. I don't think you should prejudge the fact that the Storting has granted 75 million. kr to conversion measures. Then it should perhaps not surprise anyone that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen thinks this is too small, and that one could have used the money differently from what the Finnmark Workers' Party is proposing. However, I do not think that a judgment should be passed on the sample set up in Finnmark – a very heavy and representative, complex sample, with NHO management, Innovation Norway, SIVA and the county council – where high-pressure jobs are now being put in place to put in place constructive proposals that will subsequently be addressed to the municipal minister for further assessment and final treatment. Finally, if this is to be part of the big, heavy campaign, we will be able to quote both the one and the other of what has been said through facsimiles, statements, etc. We don't have to go back any further than 2001. Many of us remember so far back in time, how finnmarkinger was then extremely disappointed, as it emerged from the newspaper Nordlys and Finnmark Dagblad at the time. But let this not become a verbal competition, and let it not just become a matter of allocating money to constructive measures so that it becomes the election campaign and the fight for votes to make it clear that the fishing industry with overcapacity, market adaptation difficulties, etc. I'm having trouble.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e644	I'm not sure if Ivar Kristiansen believes that the fact that it's election year this year suggests that we should stop taking an interest in the problems and challenges of Finnmark County, or so far in other states and other industries, until the elections are held. I think it's going to be a bit of a mistake. When I take the floor today on this matter, which is unanimous from the Committee, it is to explain why a proposal by representatives of the Central Party is being tabled with a unanimous vote. After this proposal was promoted, the Minister for Fisheries has announced a big message of value creation in the marine sector, a communication we have reason to expect to be presented tomorrow. A unanimous committee has found that it would be more appropriate to discuss the issues raised in the proposal in the context of this big message. That is why it is a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e651	Just to avoid anyone drawing any conclusions for which there is no basis: Taking into account that there is an overall committee that has an overall attitude based on the Government providing a big message about marine value creation in a few hours, I refrain from participating in the debate. It must not then be seen as ignoring the challenges that Finnmark or other parts of the coast and the fishing industry face. But based on what the latter said, I also refrain from going into the issues until we present the big message. There will be plenty of opportunity to debate it in Stortinget during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e656	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e672	The setting presented today is based on an overall comitology comment in relation to Document No. The 8th proposal from Hedstrøm, Solholm and Nistad. As a result, an overall committee decides to ask the Government: ‘examined the possibility of introducing legislation to ensure additional date labelling of consumers on the food packaging and provide appropriate information on the outcome of the investigation’. Although it is a matter which has not caused many wake-ups to the case rapporteur, it is an important matter for consumers. I am pleased that we have here received a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e684	In the opinion of the proposers, consumer interests are not sufficiently safeguarded in relation to the information on the food offered in the food business. I'll do some examples. How long does a sausage last after the slaughter? Well, it depends on who is the sausage maker, because the butchers can decide for themselves how long sausages and other meat products can be stored. Frozen meat may be 18 months or even older without information to the consumer. Companies decide, based on freezing technology, storage temperatures, packaging and other assessments. As a consumer, the ‘best before’ mark is the only thing you are informed, so you can be sure: the meat industry fits both the oat sack and the freezer. A few weeks ago it became known that the meat giant Gilde has sold frozen meat as a fresh product. The Consumer Council characterises it as a joke when the so-called fresh product is mixed in meat products which are inflamed after first being frozen for up to 18 months. The criticism must be directed not only at Gilde, who has admitted mislabelling and violation of the regulations, but also at the responsible authorities. A number of obsolete meat products are sold as fresh products, even if they are full of frozen raw materials without breaking the requirements. The handmade Christmas jam is a popular, but expensive charge in the freshware counter during the weeks before Christmas. Sylta may turn out to be several months old, have been frozen and then tinted up. In sausages there is a lot of frozen raw material, and fresh meat dough is not just fresh at all. Also there can be mixed frozen raw material. If you pick up red wine marinated sheep meat in the belief that it is fresher, you're wrong. The same applies to marinated, woked meat and other delicacies, which marinated grill products that we buy in the summer – from freezer stores all of them. Disclosures, misleading and deficient labelling have weakened confidence between manufacturers and consumers. That's why it's high time to clean this up. In practice, it is said that, among other things: The labelling requirements need to be amended so that most people are given clear and credible information on what they pick up from the meat disk. Here we are talking not only about the date of production and freezing of meat and fish, but also about, for example, the date of freezing. vegetables and when bread is packed and frozen, for mention. There's a lot of international happening in this area. Nutrient declarations are being changed. Food labelling is on the agenda both in the EU context and in the Codex Alimentarius. It's a dynamic process. Much will happen in the EU in the current year. Here everything has gone further than with us in some areas. For example, in some EU countries, such as Sweden, there are: the usual marking of frozen meat with the date of production. I recently bought the frozen Brazilian inner file at Rimi. The labelling was in order from a consumer’s point of view, with both the date of manufacture and the date of freezing. It is therefore positive when the Government and a unanimous nutrition committee stand behind the intention of the Progress Party proposal and will have the possibility to introduce legislation to ensure that consumers receive additional date labelling on the food packaging and to inform the Storting about this. In this context, it is important to clarify the labelling possibilities of food products in the EEA legislation, as well as to clarify criteria and definitions for better labelling. Should the ministry be able to follow up with an appropriate and more consumer-friendly date marking, it is important that the notified investigation does not delay in time. I would like to remind you of the dynamic process we experience in many other long periods regarding nutrition declarations, so I would like to ask the Council of State – at least he should take it on the road: When can we expect it to notify the investigation to be ready, and when can the Storting be informed of the outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e701	Let me first underline the importance of having good labelling, as suggested here, and on which the proposers have received positive feedback in letters from the department. This is what it's important to do. There are many considerations to be taken into consideration when assessing labelling. It is the amount of information that consumers face that labelling and information actually reach. It is also important to take into account health, fairness, quality and other consumer interests. I think it is right to draw the attention of the Stortinget to this occasion that already last year the three food departments, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Fisheries, the Food Authority commissioned to assess the appropriateness of legislation and the labelling of both the date of slaughter, the date of harvest, the date of collection, the date of packaging and the date of freezing of meat, fish and vegetables. So the work on this is already going on. In the light of the decision taken here today, the Food Safety Authority will also be given an extended mandate to investigate this. I cannot say an exact time now, but we are already doing the work so well that it should not take an unnecessary long time before Stortinget gets the necessary feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e712	The President then understands that there is hope that producers will be able to do fresh work in the future. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e730	The setting that will be presented today, depending on the Document No. The 8-proposal is annexed to the Protocol, on the basis of the fact that there was an announcement of a deposit on a clinical veterinary watch. When we dealt with this matter and gave a stand on March 3rd, the staging proposition was not yet submitted. In the meantime, it is presented, on 11 March, and when we get it processed, the realities of this matter will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e737	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1908]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e745	The store is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e753	During the debate, Mr Lund has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a separate labour force annex to each government budget setting out the size of the labour reserve and the overall presentation of measures proposed in different sectors to enable these reserves to be used.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e781	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on the proposal from the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the incest centres are legalised from 1 January 2006.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e805	It is then put to the vote on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case on competence and quality requirements for the establishment of incest centres, while at the same time presenting a new case of 80 pst. State funding of these.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e836	The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party will support the position in subsidiary terms. The President also assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and Left will vote in favour of II. - That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e851	During the debate, Bent Höie has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:19 [[2004-2005]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e873	In Case No: 4 and Nos No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e881	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the law prohibiting those entering the country on tourist visas from applying for asylum in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e926	Votes on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 15 March 2005 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 56):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e942	President! – I would like to give an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e949	Kari Lise Holmberg – for the vote. It is otherwise good practice to give the explanation of vote before voting. But it's never too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e957	I saw that there was some uncertainty among the representatives, but in this case the government parties will vote in favour. It also applies to the next case. But in the third transmission case, the government parties are to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e962	When the form ‘shall’ is used, the President would think that there should be no doubt among the representatives. But I guess we'll get to take the vote one more time. As far as the President can understand, it is the Progress Party that must then vote against. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e970	The Contracting Party is requested to vote against. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e980	The representatives of the Party shall be most politely requested to vote against. Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e998	Votes on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 15 March 2005 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 56):]] The President assumes that the Progress Party also wants to vote against – and that there are no others who want to vote against. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e1019	Votes on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 15 March 2005 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 56):]] The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e1038	President! I just make it clear that my voice button has hung up – I can only vote for tonight. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e1050	There is no provision in the Rules of Procedure for suspended representatives. The President assumes that the proposal was then adopted by 59 votes to 36. There's no more hanging?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17-2.ana.ud782e1116	There is no record.
