ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e45	Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e61	The Presidency has discussed the salaries of the members of the Supreme Court following the previous consideration of the remunerations of the Grand Duchy and the Government. It is a unanimous presidency that notes that it is of the utmost importance for the trust and authority of the Supreme Court that there is no doubt as to the professional competence of the Court of Justice. We are also unanimous in saying that, in the interests of the independence of the Court of Justice and the volume of work in the Court of Justice, it is important that the judges no longer have other working and income conditions that can be affected by this. This is a relatively new practice, to which the Presidency agrees. It is therefore also important to maintain a salary level in the Supreme Court which can take account of these considerations. The majority of the Presidency, all with the exception of Olav Gunnar Ballo, believes that the adaptation to comparable remuneration in the government's management pay system is being continued. We also note that the salary for the Supreme Justice, which is now proposed by the Presidency, will be the same remuneration as for the President of the United Kingdom and for the Prime Minister. The leaders of the three state powers are therefore non-discriminatory, and there is some principleal justification for this. So this is a continuation of the practice that has been for a while. I will also be allowed to add for myself that in certain discussions about the rewards of the leaders of the three state powers, there is sometimes some sort of criticism from those who are often referred to as the fourth state power, namely the media. I would like to say that sometimes questions can be asked whether the term ‘first state power’ would be more correct. In this way, I just want to say that with regard to the management salaries in the media, they're high above the executive salaries of the three constitutional powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e74	The assessment of the regulation of the remuneration of the members of the Supreme Court has a clear parallel to the assessment of remuneration of the representatives of the Grand Duchy and the members of the Government. What SV has always argued for is that we should have a general wage development in this society that is not different for the members of the Government and the Grand Duchy, or for the sake of the Supreme Court judges, than it is in the rest of society. Otherwise, we're going to have a wage trend where the one that's already the best gas man gets more and more pay — with more and more differences — than in the rest of society. What has been used as an argument here to give the members of the Supreme Court a relatively higher salary increase is the recruitment of members of the Supreme Court and comparison with other types of legal work. From the point of view of the SV, there is no problem with recruiting members to the Supreme Court. On the contrary, it is very attractive to sit in the Supreme Court. What, according to SV, is a much bigger problem is the remuneration of some barristers and business lawyers. There you should have gone through the whole system to make sure you get a wage trend like the one you've seen. We therefore believe that it is going to be totally wrong to seek to compensate for differences with others who are too high on gas, by paying the members of the Supreme Court more and more, and we will warn against such developments. We are therefore proposing to remunerate and regulate the salary of the members of the Supreme Court in line with the average wage trend in the last year, which was 3.3 p.m., and to promote proposals in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e85	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e88	The centre party is not represented in the Presidency, so we have not been able to see any point of view in this matter in the configuration. Based on the debates that have taken place in the past and which relate to the level of remuneration and the level of remuneration, I would recommend that the Central Party's large-scale group vote in favour of the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e95	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 642]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e111	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party 25 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes and the Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e120	Transport and communication should have been an area where Norway was definitely in the driver’s seat. That's not the case, unfortunately. And it has some kind of comical cut over it, when you think about infrastructure in general in Norway, because all parties have this area as its main – but only in election struggles! It is comical in the sense that government after government promises increased investment in all forms of infrastructure, for example: the outgoing government, which, in its 2006 draft budget, had a show-off list up and down and considered how high it had been in the field of transport — and then it turns out that the actual situation is such as to reduce the level of investment. The newly elected government wrote in the Soria Moria Declaration that it had intentions to become a government that follows the National Transport Plan. The first thing it does, is to fail, despite the fact that both I and all the other politicians who were elected to this house, in the election campaign met up in debate after the debate where the promises were put on the table. It is sad that the new government sees it as a big effort on the road that it has got in place 15 km with asphalt for 2006. It is not, in my understanding, a commitment to infrastructure. I record that the Council of State in newspapers, in professional journals and in other media now promises that the national transport plan will be followed up. I hope that, in the course of today's debate, we will receive answers from the Council of State on whether the additional delay that this government has now put on the table in relation to the national transport plan, amounting to SEK 1.6 billion, will be included in the budget for 2007. Governments are likely to respond by saying that they have four years on them. But, as I said initially, it's a comical intersection over it, because it's just promises. The Progress Party has a major investment in infrastructure. I record that in that area too, the Progress Party is more or less ridiculed by newspapers. There is talk of monopoly money, and there is talk of the Progress Party not dealing with the real situation. To that I would say: if this is the case that the reason we are met with only monopolistic money is that the other parties do not share the desire of the Progress Party to invest in infrastructure, then it is the other parties that have a problem. Because there is no doubt that there is more to bet, not least on the road, in this country. Then, of course, the other parties have the only argument left, that is to say, the commitment of the Progress Party is unrealistic. But I understand that there will be a problem when, for example. the outgoing government in its submissions claims that it had an increased stake of both 20 and 25 pst. on road investments and maintenance — and when one goes into the number material, one quickly finds that there is only trixation with numbers. It's just tricking with numbers! When the government of Bondevik II said it increased the appropriations for road use by 25 p.m. in the last period, the actual and real number is only 14 pst. In addition, when you want to take the price increase in the picture, you're going to be all the way down to 8 pst. But if the outgoing government, Bondevik II, believes that increased investment by way of way includes OPS projects and the use of tolls, then it becomes a completely different picture. Unfortunately, it is not investment by the Bondevik II government, so it is the drivers and road users who pay. It's the drivers and the road users who pay! I hope the new government will look a little differently at that kind of investment for new roads, and also in relation to maintenance. Because if it is the case that the government after government regards the drivers' resources as its own, we are on the wrong track, and then we get no investment in infrastructure – at all. As I said at the outset, there are many areas in which we should have invested more, and that also applies to the railway. The Progress Party has been indirectly – and directly – accused of wanting to shut down everything relating to the railways. What the Progress Party is actually doing is dealing with what the ECON report said in its time: if we are to have a future for the railway, if the railway is still to be proud, and if the railway is to continue to play a role in future infrastructure, we have to let the railway get it. Then we can't burden the railway or the NSB on subsidising routes that don't have the right to life. We're going to have to dry that out. We have to allow the railways to invest in those areas that are socially viable, and then we have to make an effort in other areas where the railways do not stretch. And then it'll be gone. As far as road and public transport are concerned, I have always asked myself questions. If an infrastructure splits in relation to the city and the country, there are two different ways to invest. I agree. In the city, there is collective prominence that should be in focus. I agree. But in terms of districts, i.e. countries, it's just this thing about maintaining growth, employment and housing that you have to focus on. So it's not going to stretch the railway. That is why we need to think a little new, both in relation to the national transport plan and in relation to removing ourselves from the debate that country and city are opposing each other – because both are equally dependent on each other. Then we have to go in a direction where people in the cities are cheering when E6 is being straightened up around Majavatn. Then we have to get there that the northerners are cheering when it's on the road in Oslo. That's not the case. And that's just because the frames are basically too small, but it's also because we're mixing the stakes. For this reason, the Progress Party now has an idea of the national transport plan. It is that we could perhaps take out large parts of what is in the national transport plan today, and have our own stake in the state budget, but of course on condition that the framework of the national transport plan is maintained. This means additional appropriations for Oslo and Akershus as a special area of activity, but resources are retained in the national transport plan, so that the districts also have the necessary promise. I know that this creates debate – but that is one way to think about, because we cannot go on with the way we have treated the National Transport Plan until today. It doesn't work, because then all losers become investment in infrastructure. It also calls for greater efforts to be made in the field of ICT and broadband. I see a lot of writing about the fact that there's broadband for everyone in 2007. But then it's sad to see that the new government jumps, or asks, away from its promises and comes with 3 million. to collect all the investigations contained in archives. It won't be broadband for everyone. Finally, I would like to address all the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, which are in the vote, and the proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e146	The representative Per Sandberg has addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e151	I hope Sandberg sees, because he might have forgotten his glasses here. The representative Sandberg says that the other parties claim that the proposals of the Progress Party are unrealistic. At the same time, he says that they will bet on the railway, but that they will remove the subsidisation of the unremunerated sections of the railway. This just shows that it's unrealistic what the Progress Party is presenting here. They'll bet on the road. However, if one looks at the draft budget for the railways, they propose a reduction of about ECU 20 million. $2 billion. They're going to take away 800 million. NOK to be used for the purchase of unprofitable transport. In practice, it will cause complete chaos on the roads that the representative Sandberg wants to build. In Oslo, for example, this means that the intercity triangle – regional toga and local toga – is likely to be shut down. Then I have to pay attention to the fact that even from Oslo, 120 000 passengers are transported by train every day. If this whole train service is removed, it will probably add 100,000 cars in and out of Oslo every day. How is the Progress Party going to implement this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e158	The glasses are in good condition, so there must be someone who has previously run from his ‘glasses’. In addition, the Progress Party sees both with and without glasses. So that's why it's realistic what we're presenting. If Rudihagen had heard what I said in my main post, he would have heard that I just said what he wanted. In order to avoid chaos in Oslo, we want the railway to bet there, bet where it's socially viable. But it's not useful to put funds into the railways and believe that one solves the problems in Troms, Nordland and Finnmark. If it's not a message that Rudihagen takes inwards, it's his challenge, not the Progress Party. I think I was quite clear that we want a railway in the future that will stand on its own, and that will be socially viable for everyone – even for the railway itself. But if we're going to continue this way, that the railway has to fight about the means of road, everyone will be lost in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e167	The President has reason to believe that it's the Vice President of Stortinge's glasses that lie here. The President will probably remove them, so we can focus on transport instead of glasses! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e170	The party of progress claims that they focus more on road construction than any other party. However, the check is that the lot is against toll financing and does not, in principle, support this form of user involvement. No, the lot prefers road construction to be financed exclusively from the tax bill. We combine the contribution of toll companies to road construction in the 2006 budget proposal, which is about NOK 3.4 billion, this is the same amount as the Advance Party adds to its budget proposal and claims to represent a big investment. The point is that once the Progress Party has used its 3.4 billion kroner to replace the toll companies’ plant contributions, there is nothing left to the other bet of the party. That is why this is not a matter of hope. How can the Progress Party call alternative funding – because that is what it really is – a big effort? There won't be any more way out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e179	There will be a massive investment on the road with our alternative state budget – NOK 7.5 billion extra for transportation measures and SEK 5.5 billion on the way. I would like to remind the representative Halleraker that we have a proposal that will be discussed in this Chamber soon, which is about to remove all toll stations – the same principle that we used on the Gardermoban in its time. Then there is no problem, either for the Right or for other parties, to join that proposal, and then the problem of Halleraker is gone. I record that Halleraker has been behind a government that has increased the funding of highway development through tolls by 114 pst from 2002 to 2005. ‘User involvement’, says Halleraker representative. Initially, the drivers pay 50 billion kroner through car use. There must be a way of ‘helping the user’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e188	The Committee's chairperson stated that Norway should be in the forefront of transport and communication, in fact in the driver's seat, said the Progress Party, in relation to infrastructure investments. We who have been in this industry for a while have looked at the Progress Party budget, and we have looked at the results that they have achieved after three years of negotiating with the previous government about getting money for transportation – where one should be in the driver's seat – and it's just buttons and glossy images, it's small money. At any time, a volumey budget does not follow up in practice when negotiating. My question, as the Progress Party has a go-ahead both with and without glasses, is: when one now has a government that actually manages to add more to the budget in 24 days than the Progress Party managed in three years, does that mean that the Progress Party looks brighter on the future with the red-green plural government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e197	No, I probably don't! But I think it's very interesting what the representative Langeland is raising, because SV has just joined the government, and the first thing they're doing is they're failing their investment on the railway with 800 million. kr in one year. – So I think one must clear and sweep for one’s own door before one tries to attack the Advance Party’s investment in infrastructure. We admit that it was almost hopeless to force in place extra funds for infrastructure and transport through the settlement we made with the outgoing government. In some areas, we got 150 million. SEK, 200 million. NOK 250 million. In our comparisons, however, it is clear that when the co-ordinated political environment – other than the Progress Party – has no intention of investing in infrastructure, it becomes hopeless. It is clear that we hope, we too, that at some point in time the Progress Party will come into the position that SV has now entered, and then there will probably be completely different notes and bets on infrastructure – I dare promise!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e207	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e210	In the government's political platform from Soria Moria, it is said that the government will create a positive development across the country and therefore increase the investment in transportation. Transport is an important element for construction, industrial development and resource use. The public is responsible for the fact that it is a good and modern communications network across the country. This requires a varied approach and a differentiated transport policy in which the different parts of the transport sector are viewed in a context. The government's additional proposal and the setting we're currently processing are a follow-up. Here is a highlighted highlight in the marketing effort. The majority government took over the budget proposal from the Bondevik government. During three weeks, the course in important areas is transformed with increased investment in schools, care and kindergartens – areas that are very important for most people. Yet, the majority found 460 million. kr more for the development, operation and maintenance of the national road and rail networks for 2006 than was proposed by the Bondevik Government. This clearly shows that the majority government is investing in transportation. Compared to NTP, the bet would be even bigger, but it couldn't be done now. The Bondevik government's draft budget had not taken the majority decision into account – in close proximity. Otherwise, one of the main problems is that the railway works had not received enough money for planning, so if we had managed to increase the fees for railway development by NOK 1 billion, one could not have used it. Therefore, it is very important that we now increase the planning resources for the railway by 72 million. kr. All of a sudden, we're going to have an increase of 182 million. kr for the development, operation and maintenance of the grid. That's what I'm talking about. space to present the project Lysaker station, promote the construction of remote control on the Nordlandsbanen and upgrade the scandal on the Meråkerbanen. It's worth noting that the government's party is the only one that's betting so much on the railway. Right, Christian People's Party and Left Cuts, $75 million. kr, and the Progress Party will in practice frustrate the rail supply. Yes, if the railway were to live with the budget framework of the Progress Party, it would also have dramatic consequences for road traffic. He would simply have stopped many places if the passenger and freight traffic were to cross the road. It was simply not possible to build enough roads, at least not fast enough, to avoid this traffic. The progress party is adding over NOK 3 billion to the budget. Still, they're able to cut $95 million. DKK for collective actions, DKK 1.3 billion for the Railway Agency and SEK 800 million. NOK for the purchase of passenger transport services on trains. The forwarding party was in conjunction with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party on the railway activity in the National Transport Plan, NTP. There may be grounds for recalling that the Progress Party here is miles away from fulfilling its proposal in the national transport plan. To solve the transport challenges, we need to focus more on all sectors. The Plural Government has proposed an increase in the number of permits for road use of 278 million. kr. Distance subsidies are to be reduced for business and people are to feel more secure when they travel on the roads. For this reason, there will be an increase in bets on the main roads and the national road network, or on automatic traffic control, and not least on race protection, which will increase by 50 million. kr. From 1 May onwards, the discount scheme may be increased from 40 pst. to 45 pst. In this setting, the Government Party assumes that the National Transport Plan will be implemented in line with the Stortingen Decision, which is also in line with the Soria Moria Declaration. At the same time, it is stressed that project funding will be important for the coherent development and modernisation of new road and rail sections. The Government Party refers to the Government's initiative in this context and wishes to see the project finance outsourcing implemented so quickly that such a system can be included in the financing of projects already in the 2007 budget. No one should believe that project or debt financing alone solves the challenges in the transport sector. But the idea is to create coherent, rational expansions that provide a good economy for society. We've had a OPS project where private loan capital has been made available. We need to have a broad evaluation of the OPS model, and at the same time we will have the possibilities for project financing with state capital. We want to find funding models that guarantee the lowest possible interest rate and better chance of making changes in the depreciation, so that the financing costs can be kept as low as possible. In this there is otherwise a possibility that the railway system can borrow to build up routes continuously, and thus most rationally. Such debt financing for the railway is also a feature of the Decision of the National Transport Plan. This may also be recalled by the Progress Party, as they were included in the decision of the National Transport Plan on the actual deployment of the railway. But the Progress Party is showing well through its budget that they are laying the railway on a winter frozen water and waiting for the ice to disappear, so that the railway is buried. A budget is about money. But it also tells a lot about politics. Which way does he go? Which value base does it build on? One might say that the Bondevik administration was not a success for transport – not for road and not for rail. When they were finished, there were 3.45 billion dollars missing compared to the national transport plan for the period. But everyone has their success, not necessarily for Norway, but for their ideological goals. That success should acknowledgment that the previous government had. The success of the Bondevik government was market liberalisation, postponing competition, sal of state activity and pursuing purely ideological goals. They did it. This has led to large conversions in Norwegian transport. I can refer to the Flytoget, that the production department in the State Road Service is separated and now operates as all other entrepreneurship companies, under the name Mesta. The train offer was to be put off for competition. The maintenance of the railway works would be privatised or put off for competition. The airline was converted into Avinor AS, and the Postens one-right was proposed to liquidate, etc. There was no time to look at the consequences. The current government party was against these changes because the competition postponement or privatisation is not the answer to all the challenges. If we look at the railway, the NSB is in third place in point play in Europe, just turned off by Switzerland and Finland. At the bottom are Scotland and England, which have carried out the competition to the most extreme. In the fall it was also known that the Railway Agency at the railway manager had written a letter to the Minister for Transport that the Railway Agency could no longer guarantee the safety of the Norwegian railway line as a result of the decision of the previous government and the Progress Party. The multi-territorial scheme now states that tasks which are crucial for the stability and safety of the network must be carried out under the control of the railway system. In order to ensure the efficiency of the Railway Agency, the Government will focus, instead of putting competition, on the further development of results and target management at the Railway Agency. There will be concrete and clear demands on the establishment with regard to the achievement of objectives, performance and efficiency. The abolition of Posten’s single right is based on an EU directive, but even the EU would first implement a total liberalisation from 2009 if it turns out that liberalisation actually leads to better postal services for people and businesses. But the previous government was supposed to liberalize everything from 2007. This is now stopped, because we need to be sure that we can achieve our policy objectives on nationwide dissemination of equivalent postal services at the same price and with good quality. Of course, a demand must be made for transport companies to operate effectively. When NSB wins the offer on the Gjøvik track, it just shows that they can operate effectively. This must also be taken into account in other areas where the State buys services. This can be achieved through negotiations. In my view, it's going to be wrong when competition postponement or privatisation is carried out for ideological reasons. One must search for reasonable solutions to the challenges. There has also been a lot of focus in recent days on air traffic. Aeroplanes are going to be cancelled, there's a question about flight safety, and there's also a discussion going through the media about whether there's enough air traffic controllers. There have been many changes in Norwegian aviation in recent years, including: in the air carriers, Avinor and Air Traffic Inspectorate. Conversion and organisation of Avinor will now be evaluated. But regardless of this, we have to assume, as we've encountered, that security has priority number. 1, and that Avinor solves the problems of delays and cancellations that they are responsible for. I am pleased that the Council of State also has so clearly the line under this vis-à-vis the Board of Avinor. Therefore, we have to assume that traffic towards Christmas will be well phased out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e243	Road construction is important to most people. The major deficiencies on today's road network are recorded daily with frustration. What needs to be done is stronger government funding. We're now going into the first year of a new road planning period, and we're going into that year with a new government, which will bet. The bet is that we start the first planned year with delays in relation to the plan that the Stortinget has been dealing with relatively recently. The bet of the new government is that it actually sends a bill for road development to users that is twice as large as its own bet – net of approx. 200 million. The cost of road maintenance and road construction is felt to be a bill for car users – and registration fees and other charges of almost 400 million. kr. But what's increasing, that's the revenue from the toll projects. Is this the Government's investment: larger bills for consumers and more extra taxes for private individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e252	The government's bet is what it says in the NTP. Now this government has been in position for three weeks. During the last four years, the Propulsion Party has placed both hands on the steering wheel and the foot on the brake pedal. And as mentioned earlier, in the course of three budgetary negotiations, one has done well to increase the propensity to travel by approx. 450 million. kr. Over the course of three weeks, we have managed, on the basis of the budget of the Bondevik government, to increase by an equivalent amount to that of the Progress Party over the four years. We are now in arrears in relation to what it should have been in relation to NTP, which I also said in my post, but the goal is that NTP should be implemented during this period. When it comes to the road sector, we now have a total of about one. 24 pst. He should have a doctor at 25 p.m., so it's going to be a challenge to deal with this in the future, but that's the ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e259	The representative Rudihagen boasts of the bet, that it has become a new course of 24 days. I'll give him right in it. The money that was promised has not come on the table – a quarter about. But course conversion, or stoppage, we've got. No to Competition for the Railway Agency, no to Tenders for Train Routes, a limp attitude to OPS, an assessment of tenders, no to the necessary liberalisation of the Post. There is only one winner here, namely trade unions, while passengers – users – have come in a different row. Rudihagen was in his intervention concerned that the previous government was ideological. I can be proud that we are ideological, especially when it produces such good results. On the way, it's 850 million. kr extra in the year due to competitive outsourcing. How many billion more must Torstein Rudihagen grant if one now puts a stop to all competition in order to achieve the objectives of the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e266	I said in my speech that competition is not the answer to all the challenges. Here a reasonable solution needs to be found, and sometimes competition can be a reasonable solution. However, competition and efficiency achieved through competition must also be able to implement and achieve through measures of efficiency and other measures for transport companies. Here the government has outlined how one will proceed to achieve it, with clear target management, with efficiency requirements. For example, in the case of: rail and the purchase of transport services are negotiated annually between the State and the NSB. In this respect, the State must make clear demands on the efficiency and delivery of the products for which it is required to pay. There are many unfortunate aspects of launching the NSB and dividing the NSB into many different companies. There is considerable synergy in the fact that the NSB is one company and can benefit from material and personnel related to each other. Therefore, one in the long run loses more in the face of competition than one wins.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e271	The representative Rudihagen was involved in the success factors of the Bondevik government in transportation, and he mentioned some of them. He of course avoids mentioning the amounts we saved, which were mentioned in the previous line. An innovation that came with the Bondevik administration was the OPS projects. The first has been accomplished with great success, as far as we can see. The working party has been involved in this, however under strong doubt. We fully agree that after three projects it has to be evaluated. An important question is whether the Workers' Party will continue to be involved in OPS operations. They have now invented a new name in the Soria Moria Declaration: ‘Project financing’. We've tried to challenge in the committee what this is. We got a certain explanation in the post, but I'm asking myself if it's really just a new word, that's Keiseren's new clothes. Will the Workers' Party continue to participate in OPS operations in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e278	When the contract of the last OPS project is in place, we shall have a comprehensive evaluation. It has also been agreed to do so in this Chamber. At the same time, we want to get what we call "project financing". It is true, as the representative Sahl says, that he has been explained in the committee, but I can repeat it. It is simply a matter of putting capital at the disposal of developers, so that they can be sure of a rapid, rational and prudent implementation of the various projects. That's also the meaning of OPS, but then it's private loan capital that's put at the disposal. The state has the possibility of making loan capital available in a cheaper way. No one's as creditworthy as the state. If you go in and analyse the two different options, you see that one will have a much better economic governance through government capital, and one will have less financial costs and lower interest rates. That's what we want to do as an alternative or a parallel to OPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e283	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e286	During the period 2001–2005, the Bondevik II government made a major contribution to good transport solutions for the whole country. Growth is divided into several modes of transport and aimed at improving accessibility and road safety in the transport sector, as well as at improving the environment. Increased transport appropriations are also an important contribution to strengthening value creation and employment around the country. Competition in the transport sector will contribute to a better service provision for users and more efficient use of resources in the transport and postal and telecommunications sectors. The outsourcing of the production activities of the State Road Administration is a good example of this. Conversion, modernisation and outsourcing within the Road Administration mean that around 850 million can be saved by 2008. kr annually, which gives more money to build a road for, and more way for the money. Prices have dropped by between 10 and 15 pst. The savings come both from the internal efficiency improvement in the state road system and from the competitive environment. The Bondevik II government increased road appropriations by 25 pst during the previous period. Road investment over the period was reinforced by nearly 20 p.m. and the Sem declaration’s target for road investment is more than met when the OPS projects under way are also included. Right will pursue a policy that contributes to a transport system with the highest possible degree of safety and minimum vulnerability, based on a vision that accidents with fatal or life-threatening road damage will not occur – zero vision. It is gratifying to see that the number of fatalities in traffic now seems to come down to the lowest level in very many years. In particular, the right will highlight the high need for government funds for racial protection work. I would like to stress that it cannot be accepted that human life is lost in race. The right considers that the safety of those who live and travel in areas of racial danger needs to be emphasised, and suggests that further increases in the allocations to cape should be made. 1320 item 31 Racial protection. We're busy floating in the road construction. Startup projects need to be completed before new ones are started. As a Drammenser, I am pleased that the appropriations, for example, to the Road Package Drammen is in place and also pleased that the Committee confirms further progress in line with the assumptions. This concerns several projects, and it is important that we follow when we have started up. The Sem declaration's objective of an increase in public transport between DKK 1.5 and 2 billion is more than achieved. Over the period 2002–2005, public transport has increased by over DKK 4 billion. The appropriations for railway purposes in the previous metropolitan period were larger than ever before, except for the exceptional extension of the Gardermoban. We are pleased with the proposals made by the Bondevik II Government on further strengthening of 370 million. on public transport in 2006 and that the Government of Stoltenberg II chooses to continue these proposals. We support the proposal of 50 million. for measures for disabled persons through the BRA programme, allocations for T-banning in Oslo and the urban runway in Bergen and not less than 150 million. kr to the reward scheme for better public transport and less car use in the five largest cities. I'm referring to the fact that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Financial Institution, together, have joined forces to increase the funding of the reward scheme by another 75 million. NOK 225 million in total. kr. The initiative has already delivered results, public transport in all major cities shows growth in passenger numbers and/or reduced tariffs. We are pleased that funds have been allocated to the Nordlandsbanen, Lysaker station, new double track Sandnes–Stavanger, Brattöra freight terminal and new double track Kolbotn–Ski, including conversion of Ski Station, in the proposal of the Bondevik II government. We propose that, in addition to the Bondevik II proposal, an additional 50 million be allocated. kr for investments on the line. Personally, I notice every day what investment in the line means. With the new Asker-Sandvika tunnel, I have experienced the incredible thing, which I haven't experienced in nine years, to drive in six minutes of delay from the Drammen two days in a row. It shows that a new tunnel actually contributes very positively. It is disappointing that one of the first things that the new government did was to stop the competitive outsourcing of the railway system's operation and maintenance. I have previously referred to the large savings that have been made in the road sector through the use of tenders. The same could be achieved in the railway sector. Increased appropriations are good, but at the same time, if you do your best to avoid competition and efficiency, the money will be low. We all agree that security should be given first priority, and there is nothing to suggest that tasks carried out by private individuals do this in a worse way. The right also regrets that the Government is now cutting out tenders for routes. The offer of Gjøvikbanen gave a clear answer: passengers get a better route offer and better material at a fairer price. At the same time, it was NSB Tenders who got the assignment. But this is not a time for repetition for the new government. No, it is better to let trade unions dictate the course, rather than think about passengers and consumers. I really hope that the Government will not be tempted to reverse a policy that stimulates competition, enhances quality and improves supply. But I doubt it. The last example is to reverse the announced suspension of the Poster’s letter monopoly, although the Post itself welcomed liberalisation in order to learn how to operate in a free market until the EU dissolves its postal monopoly in 2009. It is important to invest in research also in transport, and we are therefore pleased that the Bondevik II Government's proposal for an allocation of 118.7 million. NOK for transport research, which is an increase of 18,2 pst. in relation to the balance of the budget, also continued by the Government of Stoltenberg. Safety shall be of the highest priority in all parts of aviation. An active competition policy, the removal of passenger charges and the ban on the bonus programmes in domestic traffic have helped to improve the provision of air services to travellers throughout the country. Norway’s geographical and scattered settlements indicate that it must provide for arrangements and measures to maintain regional routes and aerodromes that cannot be operated on a commercial basis. The recurring problems of cancellations and delays due to a lack of crew in the flight tower and control centres must cease. I'm glad we're now working on solutions. In terms of this problem and the solution here, it's going to be something like X-files, you don't think so until you see it. «Take-Off-05» was the slogan for the conversion project. I really hope, on behalf of all Christmas passengers, that there will be no bending in 2005. I would also like to highlight the important role of maritime transport as a transport sector. Maritime transport dominates freight transport to and from the rest of the world. It is positive to facilitate the development of ports into effective links with the land-based transport network and the continuation of work on maritime safety and preparedness for acute pollution. On the right, the adopted frameworks are in line and mainly support the existing proposals for allocations under Framework Box 18. However, within the current framework, we want to make certain re-priorities to the proposals of the new government. I have mentioned this before: we want to strengthen public transport in cities and urban areas by increasing the reward system. This is necessary in order to strengthen the position of public transport in order to extend public transport and make it a real alternative to driving a car. So we want to strengthen this pot by another 75 million. kr. We also want to underline the great need for means of racial protection. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we're going to increase the funding here so that a total of 290.2 million. kr is granted for racial protection work in 2006. The Committee has been renamed since the last period. It is over on the Transport Committee, now we have the name of the Transport and Communications Committee. I expect that will mean more than a name change. The Committee has a high level of ambition for broadband deployment in Norway. Already now there is access to broadband in all the municipalities of the country. Then I don't go into the little fruitful debate about how wide the tape must be to get the name broadband. In my first period at Stortinget, I was on the cultural committee, including the together with Per Sandberg, and in the work on the digital TV communication was the Committee in England and looked at the development of digital services and compression technologies. There's a lot more room for services on the same bandwidth now than you got five years ago. Technology must be used by the public. The proposal of former State Council Morten Andreas Meyer on «My Side» is good and should be implemented by today's government. Demand must control the development of broadband. It would be totally wrong for us here in Stortinget to sit down and, on a failed basis, define what bandwidth and offers should be. I agree that the public has a responsibility for all parts of the country being covered, but did not let this happen in the form of giving one company privileges. I'm still not sure what the government wants to use BaneTele AS for. It would be fatal for one company to take advantage of the fact that the market stopped working. The public sector, on the other hand, must be a demanding customer, which will stimulate the expansion and width of the band. It is also positive that the Government is following up the Emergency Decision. It is time they got a secure network that enables them to do their job undisturbed. The new government has promised a great deal in terms of road and rail appropriations. Right-wing fears that you've put the list so high that it's going to tear. In addition, reducing ambitions for efficiency and competition is bad news for the users of the country's roads and roads. I am addressing the proposals on the right as co-proposals, and at the same time I would like to point out that the Right will support proposal No. 4, from the Advance Party, on OPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e338	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e343	The last government promised in the Sem declaration 600 million. kr extra each year for road development. When the status needs to be settled, the representative says that the Sem declaration has been followed up, while our review shows that there is a shortage of over SEK 1.1 billion to achieve these objectives, despite the fact that for three out of four years the budget was adopted together with the road-friendly Progress Party. In agreement with the Labour Party in the 2004 budget, negotiations between the Government and the Labour Party contributed to an increase of 174 million. kr for national road investments. Is the representative of Helleland happy for the 460 million. kr extra that the majority government prioritised for transportation, or did the sector manage well without this money, as proposed by the government of Bondevik?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e348	It would certainly be alarming if a traffic or transport politician went up here and said that he had no desire to increase transfers either on the road or on the track, so I would like to agree to the pleasure of the extra appropriations. But I warned in my post, and I stand by it: With the reversal of the competition policy we are now looking at in the area by area, I am unfortunately afraid that the extra appropriations will be lost on the road. I hope not. I hope, on the contrary, that the new government also sees the sense of using the market, availing itself of competition in the road sector – there has not been any change, I hope it will not – and also within the railway sector there are opportunities. When it was the last period, we actually, if one includes the OPS projects, have met our objectives, as we wrote in the Sem Declaration. There is no other government that has done before, that is, to fulfill the promises you made in transport. So the new government has put the list much higher, and that's why it's harder to get over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e355	In the vote, the right has turned the proposal from the abandoned Bondevik government into its investment investment initiative. It's too small. There is a lag in relation to the first year of the national transport plan. The right mark marks the start of this period by providing too little money for road development. The backstop for this is that in the four years that have passed, including the Right in Management, the only thing that has increased explosively in road finance is user involvement. Tolls collected in many toll projects have thus increased dramatically, almost doubled, in four to five years. Is it still the case that the only right-hand approach to increasing funding for necessary road investment is so-called user participation, which is actually a driving tax, where those already taxed twice are to be taxed for the third time?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e362	I register that the representative Sortevik thinks we started with too little money and that we marked the start in a bad way. I would like to say that the Progress Party marks the start of the new marketing period by wishing all the good Christmas and good New Year, for the intention to review road projects that the Progress Party has in its alternative proposal is to look for a long time. The representative Halleraker has pointed out that there's a bet on the road, if you look at the crown for heads, which corresponds to something you'll lose by removing the tolls. The representative from the Progress Party has listed all the good projects, and it is very tempting to do so. I'm recording that before I had to go rv. 7 will be a highway. Now it's Haukeli who's going to be a highway. I've calculated it a little bit, and if you have a real highway standard, I think the project alone will cost 16 billion kroner to complete, and then I haven't brought any tunnels or bridges. This is irresponsible, and I hope the Progress Party will change the course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e369	The representative of Greece spent much of his contribution to the self-criticism of Bondevik II's formidable effort in infrastructure and road and rail construction over the past four years. Of course, it's legal. Please listen carefully. But what got a little weird for me is that when one of them thinks this is so important, they have a stake of 460 million. kr less than that of the new red-green government in a relatively short time. In 24 days we have been able to increase this budget as this government I believe is so vital for the creation of value. Then it is well that what has been more vital to the Right, has just been to get to the tax haven that one has got, and thus has not so much money to build infrastructure. Is one still pleased that the red-green government is now putting up a different policy than what Right itself did?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e374	I answered that question after the line from Irene Johansen. It's very strange in this world. Some of the strange thing is that the previous government had a formidable collective effort, twice the size of what we put up to in the Sem statement. Why did a road party like Right do it? Well, because we see that it's necessary to relieve the traffic in the big cities. Then I find it a bit funny that the government, with SV as a heavy player, with the help of tax policy, etc., does not prioritise public transport, for example. the reward scheme, higher than it does. Here we have - the three parties in government - found 75 million. kr that we can give priority to it, within the budget available. So this is what the representative of Langeland says no to. He has now become a spokesperson for roads, and I think that's great. There we're going to have a lot in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e381	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e384	Yes, now there's going to be a way in the vault! I'm very happy that the Right clarifies that they are now strong for public transport and work for it, and uses the money that this government hasn't given in tax laws, just on public transport. It is promising for the future in the sense that the Right will probably cooperate with the Government to cut out the tax relief profile on which they have put such emphasis, and instead bet on collective and environmentally friendly solutions, as this government does. SV is very pleased to be part of a plural government that is changing the direction of policy in Norway. There will be less right-wing Darwinism and more justice and solidarity. We are very pleased with that, and it is also evident from the policy. Now we have a government that builds its policy on the precautionary principle. We now have a government that will make Norway a priority country in environmental policy, for example. by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Now we have a government to stop privatization, and that strengthens the ownership of the Norwegian people to natural resources as well as infrastructure – a government that has already in a few weeks been able to change the course for Norway. But let's say, of course, we recognize that we have a way to go in relation to what is stated in the Soria Moria statement. I even have to admit that. However, with the Soria Moria Declaration and the budget, the Norwegian people have been told that we are now going in a different direction. There is now more focus on environmentally friendly transport. There is now a commitment to infrastructure that will allow businesses in the districts to grow and develop. So the political course is called more community and justice. In a short time, the red-green plural government has been able to strengthen its commitment to transport significantly. We're not quite where we should be, but this area is going to get 460 million. kr more than the Left, Christian People's Party and Right had in their proposal. When one also knows how cheap the Progress Party has been in negotiations with the minority government, one knows that now one has been given a government that offensively invests in traffic to a very different degree from that of the previous government. One must bear in mind that we now have an offensive commitment to environmentally friendly public transport not only within the railway, which for SV is very important, but also an entirely different effort to get more travelers from car to bus, track and boat. SV is very pleased that it is fixed in the Soria Moria statement. It is also stated that the railway will have the largest investment in the first part of the period. It will be followed up in the future budgets. Just because we're already in arrears in some areas because we can't fix all the errors that Bondevik II has made in relation to transportation, they have red-green in the transport and communication committee drawing this up with the project funding that is in the Soria Moria statement. We don't want to keep the system that's on the right, where a bet is that banks are going to spend good money building roads. Rather, we want the government to give us more reasonable loans, or other models, which make the cost of financing infrastructure not as large as they were, and would become, with a Right-dominated policy. What model we want to choose for this project funding is being prepared, but already in the 2007 budget, we will come back to how this will happen. The red-green government is, as I said, a bit away from Soria Moria platform, and it should just be missing. No one can expect us to be able to fix all the errors that Bondevik II did in such a short time. But we are ready to continue working on the basis of the level of promise that we have today, and then to increase it in the next round, so that they measure us in the Soria Moria Declaration of Transportation, should give results in relation to the next round of the rewards. I just want to finish by saying that this new red-green government is taking the climate problem seriously in a completely different way from the previous one, is very happy for SV. Now you get a bet to reduce emissions, not only at gas power plants, but also within the transport sector. As our Environment Minister reported from Montreal, Norway is now going to be offensive. We have within the transport policy the ability to do something active there. It's SV happy that the Soria Moria statement follows up, and we're going to have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e411	It was interesting to hear the representative Langeland say that he was very pleased with what the government had managed to do. Especially when you know that SV is busy with the railway, it is interesting to know that you are satisfied with an amount from NOK 1.1 billion to approx. Eighteen million. kr. It's interesting to know that SV is so happy. But my question to SV is: does SV mean that socio-economic profitability should now be taken into account in the development of rail, either by upgrading or developing new types of routes? In fact, both the environmental and accident aspects are at the root of maintaining or expanding distances, and it may be good to know whether SV actually provides socio-economic profitability for the further development of new routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e419	In the transport policy, SV does not have all the money available to the Progress Party. It is primarily the building of the Progress Party. It would have been interesting if the Progress Party had built all these roads and laid down all the train sections they wanted to lay down, and saw how the traffic picture had become for the Norwegian people. I guess a lot of progress party voters in Oslo had become quite angry when they experienced the traffic growth they would get with the Progress Party. So in 24 days, the red-green government will be able to add 460 million. kr on the transport budget. Over the course of three years, the party was able to add 450 million. kr. There's something about the difference between this red-green government and the weight of the Progress Party. That should be remembered by the representative. When this is the case with socio-economic profitability before the collective effort, there is a problem that has a lot of answers. Something that is not socially profitable today will be in the next round if you do it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e428	I have some problems seeing what the SV Community Railway is going to look like, but we might get an answer to that later on. I believe that, after the change of lines with Greece, Langeland takes a little rift in the sails and acknowledges Bondevik's collective effort. The government is changing Norway, says Langeland. Yes, we record that SV has some dramatic proposals for changing the Norwegian society as it is. But every time they appear as losers, because Stoltenberg must shake them a little in the ears. In this budget chapter, too, they appear to be losers. It is hardly possible to track railway and collective efforts in addition to Bondevik's budget proposals. Is Langeland comfortable losing after loss in SV's core areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e440	I get an answer from my colleague from the Energy and Environment Committee in the previous period that yes, in the climate field, of which the Right should be more aware, SV has actually got significant things into the Soria Moria Declaration. We are very pleased with the joint declaration we have in this area, and we are very pleased that the Minister for the Environment is following this up in Montreal. That means we're getting a different bet on the railway, and we've started it. If the Right-Representative is willing to read, he sees that it says that we increase the permissions, compared to the government he represented, by 182 million. kr on the railway. At least there's some money, according to my budget. At the same time, we do things within the field of low-driving cars and get to another bet there. Of course, we could do better to invest in public transport in the cities. But all of this, Mr Halleraker's representative must wait in suspense. This will be followed up in the revised budget and in the future budget. So he gets to read the Soria Moria statement with anticipation and look at the results when they come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e447	We read the Soria Moria statement with open eyes and wait anxiously for what is to happen. A new direction, said the representative Langeland. But at least as far as environmental policy is concerned, I currently see no changes and no new direction in the transport budget that the new government is essentially behind. But then to my specific question: The rapid pace museum at Stokmarknes has been a heartchild of the Christian People's Party for many years. It's also been for SV. But SV has been largely alone on a proposal that former representative Geir-Ketil Hansen has promoted, that Hurtigrutemuset should become an establishment museum under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport. You would even make the decisions before you knew what the price was. I now see that we have come back to what was the original idea of the Christian People's Party, that we should be able to determine the price, and then we should come back to a possible fissure layer when it came to the Hurtigrutemuseet. Does SV still stand on the point that we are going to have a establishment museum as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e454	The Christian People's Party does not see the change in direction we now have in Norwegian politics. I understand that they don't want to see it, but that it happens, people experience it outside. Now SV and this plural government are able to add money, among other things. to the railway, a bet on the railway that's not what it should be, but it's 182 million. kr more than the Christian People's Party was able to achieve. There is another environmental profile on this government, and there will be one experience in the years to come. To the Hurtigrutemuseet. We had a debate on it internally in the government party, but we haven't concluded. We're going to get an education now. We're positive on the big fraction side, but we don't want to conclude on this with a national museum at the current time. We're going to get back to that. But both the SV and the large fraction are busy making sure that the Hurtigrutemuseet is in place. How to do this, whether in the case of fissures, or the extent of the state, we have to come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e461	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e464	Of course, in the Christian People's Party, we are together with our former government partners Right and Left in the budgetary position. We stand together, and we believe that the Bondevik government's proposals for the 2006 Transport Budget provide a very good basis for the year ahead of us. The Bondevik government was strongly committed to strengthening public transport. Among other things, a reward scheme was established for public transport in larger urban areas. It is very important for the Christian People's Party to facilitate that more people drive collectively. The right, Christian People's Party and the left therefore propose an additional 75 million. kr granted for this item. We have seen that the bet is already delivering results: public transport in all major cities shows growth in the number of passengers, and tariffs are being reduced. We are pleased that the scheme is now being extended to Tromsø. The need for racial protection funds is great. Hard weather and heavy rainfall has this harvest speeded hard with both land and people. We therefore believe that the funding for racial protection needs to be increased further, and the budget line will be a total of 290.2 million. NOK including our addition. It must be said that the government election vows about big stakes both on the road and on the track were promises that we would all like to share in giving. However, some of us abstained because we did not want to create expectations we knew we could not meet. Sometimes it shows that we were right. Where was it of the extra billion to the railway? It was not to come during the four-year period, but with a new, fresh billion every year. And where does the Soria Moria statement promise that most of the railway investment would take place in the first part of the NTP period? It'll be exciting to see what next year's budget brings. The Stoltenberg II government has mildly said some things to take again. In the Christian People's Party, we are sure that it is unwise to stop and partially reverse adopted and started conversion processes in the Post Norway AS and in the Railway Agency. With regard to the liberalisation of the Post, Stortinget made its decision on the basis of the Posten’s own desire to be better equipped before the opening of the European postal market. The entry Norge AS has repeatedly expressed the desire to be in front of the EU in terms of liberalisation. A number of EU countries have already implemented the winding-up of exclusive rights in their postal markets. Sweden and Finland opened postal markets in 1994 and Estonia in 2001. The United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany have reported that they will carry out full liberalisation. In addition, large parts of the Norwegian postal market are already open to competition. It is asked whether the Government is not merely postponing and delaying a development that needs to be implemented sooner or later, and in worst cases, the future competitiveness of the Post is impaired. The good quality of today’s postal services shall be maintained throughout the country even after the Posten’s exclusive right has been terminated. The provision of services in the districts shall not be impaired. The unit portfolio shall be maintained and the country as a whole shall be guaranteed equivalent postal services. All of this can be ensured by the terms of the concession. It's going well for the Post Norway a day. The post has been through a very successful conversion process, and there is every reason to worry about new courses in this area. The future of maritime transport lies ahead. In the Christian People's Party, we are busy moving freight from road to sea. It is therefore important to facilitate the development of ports into effective hubs, well connected to the land-based transport network. It is also of great importance to continue work on maritime safety and preparedness for acute pollution. I want to underline the importance of the rescue company's work and efforts along our coast. Currently, there are high waves and many cuttings in the sea for the Rescue Company itself, without me commenting on it more closely now. Nevertheless, I would like to express my gratitude to the Rescue Company for the important emergency and rescue work done. I would like to point out that an overall committee in the vote stresses that Hurtigruta should be a uniform transport offer with daily, full-year sailing throughout the Bergen–Kirkenes section. The fast route is very important for Coast Norway, a giant in travel life, and it will be exciting to follow the further development of the merger plans between the two companies OVDS and TFDS. The new traffic centre for North Norway in Vardø becomes a very important piece in the monitoring of traffic in the Barents Sea. Traffic along the Norwegian coast with oil from north-west Russia to Europe is rising sharply in both number of ships and tonnage, and the increase is expected to continue at least as rapidly over the years to come. There is no doubt that we need a strong traffic centre to monitor ship traffic in the northern regions. The Bondevik II Northern Territory Communication focused on the enormous potential for the development of our northern part of the country. We are facing a new era in the north, and good infrastructure is an important prerequisite for housing, industrial development and resource use in the country. I would particularly like to mention aviation and the importance of a modern short-haul network. In many areas, airplanes are the only real alternatives. On such routes, adequate air services must be ensured at affordable prices. Stamvejen, E6, through the three northern Norwegian states, requires a strong upgrade, particularly through Northern Ireland. In addition, the Committee will have an insight into this when, in March, we are going to carry out an inspection in the area. I would also like to mention some interesting possibilities for the railway in the north. The east-west corridor, China-USA via Narvik, called N.E.W., is perhaps the most exciting railway project in Norway at present. I want to challenge the Minister of Transport to take up this project and give it national status. There was no extension of the Nordlandsbahn, but we have got Arctic Rail Express Oslo – Narvik via Sweden instead. This successful rail freight route should now be extended by a new Narvik-Tromsø rail track. This will be an important contribution to the ongoing regionalisation debate in North Norway. In Finnmark, there is a strong desire to connect to the Russian railway network with a short, new line Kirkenes-Nikel. It is due to a new era for rail in the north, and the Christian People's Party will ask the Minister for Transport to address these challenges. The main objectives of the Christian People's Party in transport policy are known as road safety. We will pursue a policy that contributes to a transport system with the highest possible degree of safety and the lowest possible vulnerability, built on zero vision. Good roads are essential for safety, but also for accessibility, an important concern for both individuals and businesses. Increased transport appropriations are an important contribution to strengthening value creation and employment around the country. During the previous period, the Bondevik II government increased the appropriations for road use by 25 pst. We spend a lot of money on road construction and road maintenance in Norway, but a lot of work remains. At the same time, consideration must be given to the environment. The Bondevik government made environmentally friendly transport a taboo. We hope the new government follows this profile. The appropriations for railway purposes in the previous metropolitan period were larger than ever before. We're curious whether, in the period ahead of us, we're going to have an equal growth in railway appropriations. In this case, the government parties will have to be strongly involved in next year's budget. Agnar Mykle writes in the book ‘Lasso around Mrs. Luna’ that ‘never travelled a Northman with a night and for his pleasure’. He might be right about that. Nevertheless, night and night services are important as transport options for many of us. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that the majority of the Committee's voting group agrees to ask the Government: ‘Assessing the maintenance of the evening wagon service on the Northern runway of Mo in Rana and Mosjøen, as well as the Sørlandsbanen from Kristiansand’. It is an objective that all households, private and public enterprises should have access to a forward-looking high-speed network at equal prices throughout the country. Broadband expansion is an important area of regional policy, which can reduce distance constraints in our long-term country. Good broadband coverage provides a basis for business development and continued rural settlement. The right, Christian People's Party and the left assume that even in terms of supply and demand, the pace of broadband deployment is determined, but at the same time we stress that state support should be provided to expand broadband where it is not possible for the market to do so. To sum up, the main objective of the Christian People's Party with transport policy is to develop a safe, environmentally friendly and efficient transport system covering the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e514	I almost fell off the chair. The husband of the bet from the Christian People's Party now I have not heard. It's almost as if you should think that they're about to pass the Progress Party. The installation for Jan Sahl is at least marked by the fact that he is now in opposition. So I would like to know why during the four-year period that the Christian People's Party has been in government, he has not made rail and road and everything he has rammed up, to bet areas, especially in North Norway. I would like to clarify that, and why he sees the possibilities now. In addition, I would like to ask the representative Jan Sahl if he is satisfied with the efforts made by the Government, among others. on the railway and, in particular, on the Nordlandsbahn? There was not much about the crash protocol with the sleeping car that came from the Bondevik II administration. I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e521	I thought the representative Tor-Arne Stroem was from North Norway. So I'm very surprised that when we talk about North Norway betting, Tor-Arne Stroem – now that he's in position – whereas we mention important projects that have to be a goal both for us in opposition, and for Tor-Arne Stroem in position, to be implemented. Tor-Arne Stroem knows just as well as I do that there has been a strong desire to build a route between Kirkenes and Nikel, and the representative Tor-Arne Stroem knows very well that there is a strong desire to continue the link between Narvik and Tromsø. Now, when we're going into a regional debate, I think it's an excellent example of how to facilitate and connect a larger region in North Norway. So I hope we can still agree to work on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e527	I think it was very interesting to hear the comments of the representative Sahl, where he was very concerned about racial protection. The party of progress is very pleased that the representative of the Christian People's Party is also concerned with racial protection. I will draw attention to this and challenge Sahl on proposal No. 12 in the setting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on the national Road Race Protection Plan with priority to specific projects and committed State funding.’ We hope that this is a good proposal that the Christian People's Party will support later today when we vote on the occasion of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e537	I thank you for the Christian People's Party's commitment to racial protection. We have a common commitment to the Progress Party in that area. The Christian People's Party has worked hard in the two periods we've been in government to produce its own racial security program. We already have a race protection program that we from Stortinget are trying to follow. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not see the need for a new round of priorities when we already have priorities. We've followed them, and they're in the national transport plan. But that the Christian People's Party should have a strong commitment to the follow-up of already established racial security plans, the representative Hoksrud can be convinced of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e544	I record that the Christian People's Party is well in the pocket of the Right also in this debate, despite the fact that it gave some hope when the representative Sahl began to site from Agnar Mykle's "Lasso around Mrs. Luna". It's a powerful diet. So I thought it was an invitation to cooperate with the red-green ones, but then he chose to keep his usual partners. My question to Sahl is tied up against why not Bondevik II did many of the things Sahl now asks. Why doesn't he clean up the racial protection issue? Why doesn't he clean up the Hurtigrutemuseet? Why does he not clean up the disabled to have access to railway stations? Why doesn't he clean up the tug capacity? Why didn't he do the same thing to the vacations that we're doing now? In general, why is he pushing at us now, when we do something about what they didn't do to themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e551	To be in the humorous corner, I get to stress that I referred to a train trip that Agnar Mykle did, and not a fast route. As far as I know, it was pretty decent what was going on, and I think he was alone on that train trip. So it was all about other conveniences on trains. Otherwise I say that the points mentioned here by the representative Langeland have the Christian People's Party focused on in government. We've been working on race insurance, and we've got our own race insurance plan. We've been busy with the Hurtigrutemuseet, but we've realized that we had to have an investigation in advance, before we could make a direct decision about a store museum, which an ex-representative of SV had to attend. We have dealt with the communication on maritime safety and made our promises about what kind of tug capacity we should have. So the Christian People's Party has a strong commitment both in position and in opposition to the same issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e558	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e561	Today, the center party’s communicationist spokeswoman, Eli Sollied Överaas, has disease waiver. She'll probably come back strongly in the next debate. The centre party made choices on three main issues: an offensive industrial policy, including enhanced transport, good local welfare and a boost for sport, culture and voluntary work. The government has provided a unique basis for good local welfare. All residents will mark a strengthened municipal economy from 1 January. A highlight for the culture is in place. The economic budget was discussed yesterday. It shows good steps in the right direction. We see the same thing in today's setting. The government has great ambitions for modernising communications. An increase of 460 million. kr is a big and important first step. It's going to give us 50 million. kr more for breed protection, 200 mill. otherwise, NOK 28 million. SEK for national road ferries and 182 million. kr to railway. The draft budget represents an understanding of the reduction in distance costs for the choice of bus space. Modernisation of communications is an element of an offensive district policy, of the exploitation of natural resources and of the freedom of choice of the road. Modernisation of communications is a ‘must’ for viable urban areas and to slow down a centralisation that currently incurs additional costs for both city and country. The centre party has high ambitions for greater leverage in the 2007 budget. We are very pleased with the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration for the four-year period. We believe that a more long-term budgeting process is needed to better bind the country together. The Government announces that the State Budget Committee report on increasing long-termity in government budgeting will serve as a basis for a review of a possible separation between operations and long-term investments. New governance tools and models of economic policy shall be developed nationally and globally. Government budgetary and financial management must ensure that important tasks are actually resolved. Project funding shall be provided by 2007. The government acknowledges that the ferries are the road for thousands of inhabitants and for a long range of key businesses along the coast. The centre party is aware that holiday redemption funds are to be included in the financing of continental connections. In turn, we have given our support to many local initiatives to take the step from columning and night-riding to literally free flow. The distances will still be too many. Better discount schemes from 1 May and the provision of free services for some holiday routes are of great importance to many residents and businesses that currently have more costs because their national roads are a ferry. Gas transport as a R & D project is a forward-looking environmental policy and investment in skills in own countries. Then the government also has ambitious targets for broadband expansion. Here, there are difficult opportunities for nutrition and development. When the community in its time could put in place both telephone and television for most people, it must be possible to ensure that all households and private and public enterprises have access to a forward-looking high-speed network throughout the country. Now the government has to spend $3 million. kr to determine where to go with government funds. It is an important step that will now be taken in the 2006 budget. Modernisation of communications involves both safe, safe and punctual aviation, increased collective provision on the road and on the road and universal design, so that everyone can benefit from it, improvement of ports and fairways, new road projects, without ignoring the need for bedding and maintenance, and environmentally conscious ferry solutions, country-wide postal services and a common broadband service. I believe that during this four-year period we shall see that there is will, there are solutions – where there is will, there is the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e583	The centre party is known for using large words to ensure employment and housing in the districts. In such a context, road is very important, then also the highway. In fact, we have 27,000 km of county roads that are today of a miserable standard, creating extra costs, especially for business, large extra costs for business and most of the people living in the districts. For some years, the Progress Party has focused on providing funds for a gravel road package, primarily to get solid cover, but also to increase the carrying capacity of the county roads. I understand that the representative will reply that we have given more money to the municipalities. But now these 5.7 billions that the municipalities have received in transfers must soon be exhausted. So my question to the representative is: Will the centre party, at least on the Storting, exercise some pressure on the red-green government for an increased bet to get firm cover and increase the carrying capacity of the county roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e590	It is not that the Center Party stops in large words when it comes to housing and industrial development in the districts. In fact, every day the Center Party is busy getting something done to ensure a better district profile in all our activities, both in the Stortinget and out in the counties and municipalities. That's not least because we had a strong commitment throughout the election campaign to put in more funds for the counties and municipalities. $5.7 billion is a first step. There should be an escalation plan. A gravel road package may be one way to go - yes, a gravel road package may be one way to solve this. I think that the individual states have actually laid their plans, which means that for the next few years they already have more money to cover. We're going to stick with the Progress Party in a pressure to secure money and more solid cover. But there are no certain special packages available for this solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e597	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have had a common commitment to the City Tunnel. In the setting of the previous budget, the representative of the Centre Party wrote: ‘This member therefore sees it as essential that the City Ship Tunnel is regarded as a national project and treated accordingly.This member will continue the work of building the City Ship Tunnel and set of 10 million. crowns for further planning.» The rest of us had just gone $5 million. NOK, but this led to the start of a process. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have an offensive note to make on this in the budget position, where we ask that the work be speeded up to get this investigation on the table, so that we can take a position on the project. But the government parties do not. Funny enough, the Center Party is also missing – although it is not so funny when they are now in government. Has there been any change in the position of City Ship Tunnel, or has the involvement been sunk after the government came into office?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e611	I was very excited about the new quote. But I understand it so that Sahl sticks to the more grounded when he quotes the Center Party in the previous budgetary position. The location of the ship's tunnel is an important matter for the Centre Party. It is one thing that we think has taken a very long time, and that has led to one after another. It is good that there is now such a strong and common commitment to the Storting to get a solution to this matter. I do not know the details of the work of the Committee in this area, but I think it must be a guarantee in itself that the Central Party is now in the government with a Minister of Transport from Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e619	The main road network in urban areas is important for the business community in the districts. E18 through Akershus has significant plugs in this main road network – yes, some go so far as to call it ‘infarct’. What is the Central Party going to do about the promotion of business on this main road network?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e626	I should first just say to Jan Sahl that in the proposition from the Government it is called: ‘The issue of the realisation of the City Ship Tunnel will be submitted to the Stortinget in 2006.’» There would then be no need for other comments. It is also the case that the State Council of Sogn and Fjordane are not responsible for this matter, but the Council of State of Finnmark. But I'm assuming there's going to be some kind of pressure. So to the question from the left. I don't understand the question, what the Center Party will do to make it more accessible on the main road network. The centre part is occupied by better tribal roads. We're busy with the secondary highway network, and we're busy with the road network otherwise. It's not like it seems to be for the Left, that it's the main roads. With the goal we have, there is actually a need for a significant increase in the strength of everything that is called the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e640	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e643	The Bondevik II government made a major effort to ensure good transport solutions for the whole country. Growth was divided into several modes of transport and aimed at improving accessibility, road safety and the objective of improving the environment. I am particularly pleased that the collective effort was reinforced by NOK 4 billion in relation to the level of the last state budget of the government of Stoltenberg. Thus, the objective of the Sem Declaration of an increase in public transport of DKK 1.5 to 2 billion compared to the level of labour party government is more than achieved. I would also like to remind the assembly that the first public transport notification was ever submitted in Norway by the Bondevik II government in the spring of 2002. The appropriations for railway purposes in the previous metropolitan period have been greater than ever. The left is pleased with the proposals made by the Bondevik II government to further strengthen public transport in 2006, and it is good that the government of Stoltenberg chooses to continue these proposals. I'm proud of 50 million. for measures for the disabled through the BRA programme and not less than 150 million. kr to the reward scheme for better public transport and less car use in the five largest cities. In addition to its financial position, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have joined forces to increase the funding for the reward scheme by another 75 million. kr. The bet produces results. Collective transport in all major cities shows growth in the number of passengers and/or reduced fares. For the Left, it is important to strengthen public transport in cities and in urban areas. In the view of the Left, free funding through the reward scheme is a positive tool to stimulate cooperation and good solutions for the population. A success story I want to highlight is the efforts of former Minister of Transport Skogsholm to get the very important Kolsåssbanen in Bærum on rails – after some towing between Oslo and Akershus. The Colza Railway is important for less use of cars and buses on already congested roads in Bærum. Incentives have also been important for the so-called ‘roadways’ in Oslo, resulting in less car use and less everyday stress, as well as electronic ticketing as a joint project between, among others. Oslo and Akershus. I am pleased that, among other things, funds have been allocated to the Nordlandsbanen, Lysaker station, new double track Sandnes-Stavanger and new double track Kolbotn-Ski, including conversion of Ski Station in the proposal for Bondevik II. The left will have a strong focus on Lysaker station and the double track between Sandvika and Oslo and between Ski and Oslo in the future. We would have liked to have seen that we could get double tracks all the way to Ås, because of the big stake in Bondevik II at UMB, with the transfer of the Veterinary Institute and the Veterinary College. The pressure on the road network and public transport is high in Akershus due to the large relocation. Rome, centrally located between Oslo and Sweden, will continue to meet the future as one of Norway’s fastest growing regions, with an expected population increase of at least 170,000 people over the next 50 years. This is similar to the Trondheim population and will call for the sustainable development of Rome's agglomerations and associated infrastructure, which will help to create efficient and environmentally friendly transport years for freight and passenger transport between strategically located business clusters, residential areas and service centres. It is important to exploit the unique potential of the metropolitan area by coordinating transport by road, sea and air. I very much regret that the new Minister for Transport will stop the competitive edge. Competition in the transport sector contributes to a better service provision for users and more efficient use of resources in the transport, postal and telecommunications sectors. Competitive outsourcing of the manufacturing activities of the State Road Administration is a good example. Conversion, modernisation and outsourcing of competition within the State Road Administration will save around 850 million by 2008. NOK, which gives more money to build the road for. The Gjøvik track is another good example, where the NSB won the bid by over 30 pst. better offer for over 10 pst. lower price than they took to drive the route earlier. The tendering process at Gjøvikbanen has cost a few million kroner, while the savings were over 10 million. kr. I'm very excited about how the new government will come to terms with all its promises, when, unfortunately, they will reverse time. I am very sorry about this. Pushing security ahead as a cause for reversal is an argument I do not accept. The Minister for Transport has had an ideologically fundamental decision that can quickly affect the collective users in terms of a worse collective offer than what we would have had with our arrangement. We note that the Government, with its proposal for appropriations for investments in the 2006 line, will not follow up the majority decisions of the Labour Party, SVs and the Central Party in connection with the NTP despite the strong criticism received by the Bondevik II Government at the time. Clearly, there is a long way between life and learning when it comes to action and budget. During the previous period, the Bondevik II government increased the appropriations for road use by 25 pst. The ‘Semi-Declaration’ objective for road investments is more than met, even when the OPS projects in progress are taken into account. I'm going to be so honest with Per Sandberg that I'm taking this with me. The left will pursue a policy that contributes to a transport system with the highest possible degree of safety, the so-called zero vision. In this regard, I would like to mention the racial security work. The safety of those who live and travel in areas of racial danger needs to be given greater emphasis. That is why the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want a further increase in the appropriations for racial protection than the Stoltenberg II proposes. One example is Strynefjellswegen, rv. 15th The road, which is one of the most important trajectories between east and west, was closed for 21 days last winter. The maximum period was four days. This is a road safety problem and a business problem. In order to achieve good solutions, it is important to cooperate across batches. One example is the work that is now being done to get a solution in connection with Oslopackak 3. One of the challenges is the stuff in the tribal road system, which I asked a question about in a line to the Center Party. This costs business a lot of money, and it causes the population huge plagues in terms of noise, dust and pollution. An environmental tunnel here, with good collective and adventurous solutions, will remedy the situation both in the local environment and, as mentioned, as an entry factor. Finally, hydrogen and zero emissions have increased sharply. We spent $22.6 million in 2005. kr for testing alternative fuels and environmentally friendly technology, an increase of 17.6 million. kr, more than one triple since 2001. All in all, I think the proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left bears witness to a holistic, forward-looking and environmentally friendly policy on society, with a strong commitment to good collective solutions. In addition to these projects, the Bergen Programme and the Bergen Urban Railway can provide shining examples of the Bondevik Government's forward-looking transport and collective effort. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Left supports the proposals to which the Left supports – perhaps not a great surprise – plus proposal No. 4, from the Advance Party, on OPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e685	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e688	This autumn, the left and the representative Tenden have been concerned with the development of the Lysaker station and its accessibility to passengers. The challenges include: linked to the station’s location in a curve, creating problems for children, the elderly and people with disabilities in accessing and disembarking. This interest from the representative Tende is commendable, but also remarkable, as the plans for this expansion are approved by the previous government, where the Left had the Minister of Transport right up to the government change in the autumn. It is now assessed whether to restart planning, which will delay and exacerbate development, or whether to find solutions within the plans chosen. Is the representative Tenden satisfied with how the previous government, by former Minister for Transport Skogsholm, handled this matter, or does the representative see that the matter could have been dealt with differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e695	I thank the representative Irene Johansen for this question. The left strongly focuses on Lysaker station, as I said in my post. I am very pleased that the current Minister for Transport continues the message to the Railway Agency to come back with a case before 1 December 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e707	In Budstikka on 1 December 2005, the representative has stated that the Progress Party is very reluctant. It's because we want to solve all of these problems that the representative Tenden addresses in his post. Here I have a problem understanding the message from the representative. But my challenge to the representative Tenden is: The Progress Party, which I was also involved in my main post, agrees that there are major challenges in the Oslo-Akershus area, also within the field where the representative Tenden was in his post. The promotion party is working with the idea of trying to take the capital with surrounding areas from the national transport plan and treat this region separately, because of the major challenges facing it, both in terms of the collective section and in terms of the road. Is there anything that the representative Tenden and Left would like to follow up with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e716	I also thank you for that question. I guess I didn't say it the way Per Sandberg says it here, but I said that the Progress Party has monopoly money, they have a lot more money than any other party. I just think that's very sad and stupid. Had we been able to relate to the same budgeting, we could have prioritised within the same and stood more united. But then to the question: in the case of Oslopackak 3, which I understood the representative asked for, it is now working intensively to put in place good solutions where Oslo and Akershus can cooperate. But then you have to work cross-politically and not stand on the sideline, as I unfortunately feel that the Progress Party often does.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e725	Left says they're an environmental party. Within the framework of transport policy, reducing emissions is a major and important task. The transport sector accounts for about 25 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. It is therefore important to transfer the most possible transport to public transport. The left-hand side knows, just like the Labour Party, that an important requirement for this is to have funds. Therefore, I am surprised that the Left is not involved in the comment to open up to transfer money from tolling in Oslo to the daily operation of public transport in the same city. Why isn't the Left on this? Is there a possible reason why, in this case, the Left also means after what the Right stands for, in connection with Oslopackak 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e733	I also thank you for that question. It is true that when you are in a process and work together to find good solutions, not only between parties, but also between regions – that is, Oslo and Akershus – it will be the fault of the Left, Right and Christian People's Party to break into that process and feel something very strong. That's not how you build trust, at least it's not how the Left Party, the Christian Party and the Right build trust. We're going to figure out a solution, and to do that, you don't have to break into the process along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e740	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e743	The transport and communication system is important for good regional development, and is crucial for industrial development and bustage in all parts of our country. The government will re-examine broad societal interests and ensure political governance in the field of transport policy. The Soria Moria Declaration provides for an offensive policy on transport with a stepping up of the level of road and rail routes. For the districts, an offensive transport policy involves strengthening the road network and ferry services and maintaining routes and airports. It involves good relations between all parts of our country. For urban and urban areas, it means most of all a better collective offering, including rail, which is important for a good urban environment, less emissions and safe traffic management. The Bondevik II government conducted a transport policy in which a unilateral focus was placed on the launching of competition and privatisation in most areas. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the plural government has announced a new course in this field. We already have a lot of things to do. stop further competitive deployment of the operational and maintenance tasks of the Railway Agency, say no to further work on the deployment of rail passenger services and lift decisions on full liberalisation of the postal market from 1 January 2007. I would like to stress that this does not mean that the efficiency of these services should be halted, and concrete requirements will be made accordingly. The government does not object to the use of competition where appropriate. However, individual areas are poor for competition. These may be areas that are fundamental to road safety and areas where services become poorer and offer fewer when political governance becomes weak. This government wants people to have access to its services where they live. A one-sided focus on postponing competition cannot be reconciled with this objective. The government is also busy having them added to processes running on conversion and renewal. We believe in cooperation and Community solutions in front of the right's ideologically based belief that free market forces provide good and equivalent services for all. Saving money at the hands of the state does not automatically increase the benefits of society if costs are passed on to businesses and individuals. I am pleased that the Government has put in place a 460 million increase in road and rail infrastructure effort. In the course of about three weeks we have had the opportunity to amend the draft budget by the Bondevik II Government. The government has taken the first important steps to comply with the Soria Moria Declaration when increasing road and rail efforts is required in accordance with the Stortingen Decision in the context of the management of the National Transport Plan. The add-on of 50 million. kr for breed protection is an increase of about 25 pst. Compared to the Bondevik II Government's proposal. Because of the fact that the parties to the government have resigned, they will now be willing to demonstrate by adding an additional 25 million. On top of this, can only be read as a crass criticism of their own budgetary proposals. Of the 75 million road maintenance supplement. SEK shall be SEK 70 million. kr is used for asphalting. The funds are earmarked for asphalt because this area has been a balancing item on the maintenance budget for several years. In fact, even with the added value of the plural government, it won't be enough to keep up today's road standard. I am surprised that the three old government parties will reduce the burden on asphaltification, when we know that this will not only lead to road users’ disadvantages today, but will also lead to even greater costs in the future. Road safety is an overarching principle in road policy. It is therefore particularly gratifying that developments in 2005 show a sharp decline in the number of road fatalities. However, there is no need to reduce efforts, as the government wants to see a reduction in the years to come, with the zero vision at the bottom. The journeys are an important part of the road network, and the costs of those using the ferry have to be reduced. The proposal to raise the discount schemes for zoning cards and value cards from 40 to 45 pst. is a first step in this direction, and I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports it. The government will work actively to improve the coastal ferry services. The previous government announced a competitive postponement of national road ferry services by the end of 2009. The majority in the Committee ask for an assessment of the pace and organisation of the supply process, and I will come back to the question, including: in the light of the requirements of international legislation. I have also noticed that the majority in the Committee asks the Government to consider, in the light of environmental considerations, whether the national road journeys should be replaced by gas journeys as new routes are to be offered. The railways are an important part of public transport and also have an important role to play in the transport of goods. In accordance with the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government proposes that the railway should be an attractive and good transport solution, and an important tool to transform transport into more environmentally friendly rental. In order to unlock the environmental potential of rail transport, there is a need for a significant increase in the scope for upgrading the existing rail network and for the construction of new double tracks. This is particularly true around the largest cities to facilitate increased public transport. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget with this budget increases the commitment for the maintenance and investment of the railway infrastructure for 2006 by 182 million. kr in relation to the submission by the Bondevik II Government. I am also pleased that the Stortinget supports the Government's desire to fund projects for the coherent development and modernisation of new road and rail sections. It is important that large road and rail investments can be carried out in a cost-effective way, and I have noticed that the majority want project funding to be made so quickly that it can be included in the 2007 budget. Aviation is very important for busses and business, both in central and districts. The state's purchase of air routes makes it possible to continue the operation of a very fine mask of routes throughout the country. Air safety is priority number one in Norwegian aviation policy. It is therefore appropriate that the budget should give priority to the most necessary resources for the Air Safety Authority and the State's Committee on Transport. The transfer of the Air Safety Authority to Bodø is within a good track. The Department of Transport has recently been informed that the move seems to go faster than expected. The total removal costs are unchanged, but I want to make sure that they can come up with something earlier than what St.meld says. No 32 for 2004-2005. There has been a lot of attention around Avinor lately, and I follow the developments in the company closely. The Government Party announced in its political platform that an evaluation of Avinor would be carried out. The evaluation work is now under way, and I will return to the Storting in 2006 with the results of the evaluation. The government wants to maintain and further develop a good postal service throughout the country. The government is therefore in favour of postponing the final liquidation of the one-right of the Post. A suggestion for this will be submitted to Size. Good postal services mean a lot to people around the country. I can't see that a rapid abolition of the single right will benefit the districts, private individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises. The European Court of Justice today contributed to the financing of business-economy-sponsored postal services. It would be difficult to do so when the competitors of the Post can foam the flow of the profitable parts of the postal market. The best way to ensure good postal services throughout the country is, therefore, to maintain a restricted right. Broadband is an important infrastructure in modern Norwegian society. The use of broadband helps to reduce loss of distance and secures activity and build-up. All parts of the country need to participate in digital service development. Through the management of Ecom law, my task is to ensure good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic communications services to users throughout the country. I am pleased that there are resources to find the right measures for the households and businesses that will not have access to broadband in the course of a commercial expansion, and that the Storting is behind this. It is important that we find solutions that do not create uncertainty in the market and slow down commercial companies' eagerness to expand broadband, whether they are large and nation-wide groups or smaller local and regional players. Realising the digital all-man rights is high on my priority list. The government wants to pursue a transport policy where we see different actions in a healthy environment. Market solutions will be useful where they produce the best results. The government will use more political governance where it is necessary to maintain broad societal interests. Transport is a sector with a lot of hubs in the toolbox – tools to be used to target the Government’s targets for bustness, industrial development and resource use across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e789	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e792	I record that the Senterpartiet is very pleased with 20 pst. bets in relation to what they had initially promised the voters in the election campaign. I record that the Council of State and the Government want to stop the competitive outsourcing – that is how I interpret it. At the same time, the Council of State says that efficiency and rationalisation should continue. My question then is, how are you going to make it stick together? Do you have to cut the annual transfers? I'm going to say that the state council is bombing on a very central point here. Competitive outsourcing is not primarily undertaken to save money, but to get suppliers to provide their best, provide better service, more varied services and, as a consequence, savings that can lead to stronger service provision. My question is, how can the Council of State measure the quality of services in the many sectors where she now wants to preserve the monopoly?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e803	As I said in my article, competitive exposure can be beneficial in some sectors. For this government, it is important that we keep up the service provision throughout the country. We can use the Railway Agency as an example of how we want to develop the service without continuing to compete. It is not that competition always serves social objectives. Competition pushes efficiency, and competition can bring savings – not necessarily, but it can. The fact that one has competition means that one has to take the lowest offer that comes. The only way to bet on the release of competition is to ensure that it is safe. It is the most important element for the Government to further halt the launch of competition in the Railway Agency. We shall use results and target management. We shall set out concrete and clear requirements for the establishment of objectives, results and efficiency. Together with them, we will further develop the Railway Agency to provide efficient and good services to the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e810	The famous toolbox was mentioned by the Council of State in her posts. It is true that it was well filled, at least when the Council of State took over. But at fast speed, or maybe broadband speed, she's now starting to empty the toolbox. She says no to competition on lines and on routes. She said no to competition regarding the Post Office. She will assess the tendering process for the ferries and the organisation of Avinor. Instead, the Council of State says that we should focus on cooperation and Community solutions and that the societal objectives must be put first. This should lead to an improvement in efficiency. Yeah, that's nice words. But can the Council of State give an example of the fact that the competitive outsourcing we have had in Norway has given us poorer security, poorer offers and less money left? Or is it just to note that it is really the union that has got its own?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e817	As I said in my reply to the representative Sandberg, it is not necessarily the case that competitive exposure takes care of the broad societal objectives. There are many good examples of saving money. I will continue to use the Railway Agency as an example, because I think that's the best example you have when it comes to putting on the competition and the stop we've done. While we can certainly take care of the maintenance of the railway system’s material at a lower price, are we sure that we will take care of the security? That's what the government is busy about. It is also true that we do not have competition in all markets that is well-developed enough for us to really benefit from competition. Therefore, in areas where there is no well-developed market and where there is a risk in terms of security, this government will retain a service with an organisation within the Community within its borders, where competition is not to be crude.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e824	I have two questions. Firstly, I am pleased that the Minister for Transport is focusing heavily on the development of aviation at the moment. I want to ask the Minister: what are the concrete measures she has in her pocket to try to change the perspective from an air traffic controller perspective to a customer perspective again, not least now as we go towards Christmas traffic, and with the developments that we have seen in the past when Christmas has approached. Then the Soria Moria Declaration has continued the strong commitment of the Northern Territory Communication to the North. Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre is to be commended for speeding up the process. But then the infrastructure effort is also included, I expect. I want to ask, as I did in my main post: Will the Minister for Transport now be involved in giving a national status to an N.E.W. Corridor China-USA, via Narvik?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e831	Avinor is organized in an AS. It was done under the previous government. This means that it is the board of directors and the day-to-day rental that is responsible for ensuring that we have a customer perspective, not an airline manager perspective. I have in conversations with organisations, with the day-to-day rental, and not least with the board – which is what I know as a councillor – set out clear demands for what I expect. I expect the organisation to calm down, I expect the flights to go as they are set up, and I expect the Norwegian people to get the services they need when they want them. If that doesn't happen, of course, as a general meeting I have to consider what to do with it, but there are clear demands that are made on Avinor in that context. When it comes to the second question, I have to get back to it in the further planning and priority of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e838	For metropolitan areas, it is absolutely necessary to achieve the best possible collective effort in order to achieve the best possible urban development. Therefore, the reward system should be increased in line with the proposal that has been raised from the Left, Right and Christian People's Party, but here, unfortunately, we just have to record that the government parties are already running from their own statement by Soria Moria. For the metropolitan region of Stavanger-Sandnes, the double track on the railway is an incredibly important milestone in a positive infrastructure, and it is therefore positive that this is followed up from Bondevik II. Several enquiries have been made from the municipality of Stavanger about the possible interception of parts of the double-track route, in order to ensure a positive infrastructure development. I believe that the Council of State can contribute to the positive response of this type of enquiry from the Railway Agency, as the former Council of State did.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e846	Public transport in and around the major cities is important for this government. It shows us in our priorities, and it also shows us in the further priorities we are going to do when it comes to collective investment, and when it applies to the funds that are specifically earmarked for investing in the five largest cities. When it comes to advancement, I expect a matter to be settled when it comes to my table. I would also like to remind you that the Government will set up a group to finance projects, just to give us a good and coherent development of roads and roads across the country, including the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e853	I want to go back to Avinor. A tool that this government and this state council have had from day one is the Avinor ownership tool. I don't think either travelers or operators will find themselves in continued delays and waiting time long in 2006, while it's being investigated further. The Disaster Commission has pointed out that the switchover affects flight safety and is not in a positive direction. Essential for aviation safety is the availability of qualified personnel present and at work. There is a significant gap in the reality of the conversion process in Avinor, between the management's perception of manning and the employee's perception of manning. Will the Council of State use its tool as its owner, cut through and determine, using the supervisory authority, what number of air traffic controllers must be in order to provide satisfactory air safety so that we can move forward and at least determine what the parties seem to be totally in disagreement about, namely what is needed to operate Norwegian aerodromes and Norwegian airspace?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e862	It was the previous government that converted the Aviation Agency into Avinor – an AS with a self-governing board and a daily lease to run for the daily operation. I think it is important that we in this room are tidy when the liability between the different in such a system is involved. As a general meeting, I see to it that the board of directors and the day-to-day rentals carry out the job they are going to do. If they don't do it in a satisfactory way, I have to grips with the board, which is what I know. As I said, I have a good dialogue. Not many of the fifty-some days this council has been sitting in the chair, that Avinor hasn't discussed it. We have good processes, and I expect them to lead to good results for those who are passengers and thus customers of Avinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e869	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e872	The new government rates on transport, an increase in relation to the Bondevik II government at approx. DKK 0.5 billion. I'll call that we're on the right track. We want to create a positive development across the country and will therefore increase this effort. The main objectives of the transport policy shall be to increase road safety, more environmentally friendly transport, regional development and an efficient and accessible transport system for the whole country. Traffic is an important prerequisite for housing, industrial policy and resource use. The Bondevik II government pursued a policy of transport with a unilateral emphasis on competition and privatisation in most areas. The majority government does not oppose competition where appropriate. However, the government believes in cooperation and is committed to ensuring that broader societal considerations can be pursued. We want to bet on Community solutions rather than on the right's ideology of privatisation. Effective reorganisation is best done in dialogue with employees. The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre shall assume that the national transport plan shall be implemented in line with the decision of the Storting. To achieve this objective, we will stress that project funding will be important for the coherent development and modernisation of road and rail sections, as envisaged by the National Transport Plan. I am very pleased that the red-green government is now increasing the funds for investment in the line to address the real problems of Norwegian railway instead of conducting liberal experimentation on behalf of taxpayers. We're proposing to increase the amount of investment in the 142 million line. Compared to the Bondevik II Government. In particular, I am pleased that there is a positive uplift on the Nordlandsbanen and Meråkerbanen, which are important contributions to freight traffic. The party's progress has always been high in its annual alternative budget proposals, but the party has in practice had a weak track record with the Bondevik II government. It is nice that the Progress Party wants to invest more in road construction across the country, but the ambitions of the party lack ground contact in terms of scale and progress. The construction of four-field motorways cannot be the solution to all transport problems almost across the country. The majority government doesn't see American transport solutions as a good scale. The Party must be held responsible for what has happened in the transport sector during the previous period. Maritime transport is an important part of transport policy. Coast Norway is important for the value creation of the country. Facilitating maritime transport and good ports improves the possibility of increased value creation across the country. It is desirable that more transport be provided by sea, as this is more environmentally friendly. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to ensure a competitive framework for maritime transport. Priority shall be given to measures to improve the safety of maritime transport. In addition to the focus on prevention, it is important to have a good preparedness when the accident is over. Good preparedness is necessary in order to reduce the level of injury. There are two areas that can be mentioned in particular: oil protection and the rescue company. Accidents associated with the transport of oil by sea, for example, could have serious environmental consequences. Strengthening oil protection equipment by 12 million. kr, shows that this is a priority matter. A towing boat stand with rapid response time along the coast will be able to avert major accidents. We are meeting an assessment of this preparedness in 2006. Upgrading oil protection potentials and focusing on training in coastal zone preparedness will be important contributions. It is also of particular importance that there be a safe response to the major tanker traffic that is also currently going along the coast and to Norwegian ports. We would also point out that it is important that the Coastal Plant prioritises efforts to develop state preparedness to reduce the risk of environmental damage caused by oil spills and other substances from ships and wrecks. We believe that an important prerequisite for preparedness is that we have the best expertise in oil protection. Today, there is an increasing activity taking place in cooperation between NordNorwegian Emergency Centre AS and Norway's Fire School. We see it as natural that Norway's Fire School establishes close cooperation with relevant professional environments, among others. NorthNorwegian Emergency Centre, with a view to achieving optimal training. The oil industry has already gone into the North Norwegian Emergency Centre with its own resources. We also believe that Norway’s Fire School will be the central player in the field of coastal zone preparedness training. It is important in further efforts to strengthen the competence and training of oil protection. The rescue company also plays an important role in the preparedness for sea rescue. It is desirable to continue this cooperation. With regret, we record the internal turmoil and hope that the company is able to calm down and clean up its problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e902	Some words about Norwegian aviation. Through St. Meld. No 38 for 1996–97 dealt with the Norwegian Aviation Plan Stortinget for the period 1998–2007. Both the importance of aviation and the major changes we have had and have in aviation make it clear to the Progress Party that a new Norwegian aviation plan should be drawn up. I refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, no. Even more importantly, today’s challenges in Norwegian aviation are being solved. The solution must comply with punctual traffic resolution and flight safety requirements. In the case of temporary traffic management, there is a great deal missing. Nearly daily, passengers and airlines are hit by major delays caused by the state company Avinor. The air carriers are subject to high costs due to recurrent delays. Travelers are also subject to significant delay and inconvenience costs. Steady and frequent situations of delays are unacceptable. The State is the owner and, in the opinion of the Advance Party, the owner must now intervene. As far as aviation safety is concerned, I would remind you that the Stortinget in its decisions on the conversion of State activities in aviation has been very coherent and very clear that safety considerations are a priority in the process of conversion. The comprehensive review of aviation safety in the context of the conversion work carried out by the Harvari Commission at the beginning of August contains a comprehensive review of Avinor. It is natural for the company to play a key role in safety and traffic management in aviation in Norway. It is with concern the Progress Party has taken note of the content of the report, where there are eight safety recommendations for Avinor. It is with concern that the Progress Party notes that the lack of interaction between management continues. The Progress Party refers to the report of the Commission of the European Communities, which reads on page 105: ‘The fact that large groups of personnel with safety-critical tasks have distrusted the Avinor senior management may in itself pose a threat to aviation safety and should be addressed.’ The Progress Party has a proposal – not to engage in the process of conversion, but simply to clarify the main basis of fact for action once for all where the perception of facts cracks strongly, namely the need for air traffic management and control personnel. The proposal is distributed in the Chamber and reads: ‘The Government is asking the Authority to instruct the Air Safety Authority to draw up without delay an overview of the necessary crew management and control of air traffic in Norwegian airspace in order to provide satisfactory aviation safety.’ The Progress Party considers that this may provide a necessary clarification of the manning needs, so that further work to ensure both flight safety and punctuality in air traffic has a clear dimensioning. The Party considers that all parties involved will accept and respect a dimensionation by the national supervisory authority. It is with concern the Progress Party notes that the Air Safety Authority reopens closed non-compliances; that means that the Authority does not accept the follow-up of the alleged breach of safety regulations by Avinor. It is with concern that the Progress Party records that Avinor appears to continue the practice of senior management positions in aviation safety and air traffic without the necessary supervisory approval and that deviations are ‘disputed’ with the supervisory authority. It is with satisfaction that the Progress Party has noted that the Authority, the Air Safety Authority, is now clearly on track in relation to Avinor. However, it is with concern that we record the large deviation between the supervisory view of manning and Avinor's view of the same thing. The Progress Party calls on the Minister of Transport – who is the General Assembly in Avinor, who owns – to critically assess whether Avinor’s current management is capable of continuing the company’s transition work. This government and this council have a tool that can be used in this matter, and it's ownership, which is completely state-owned. The State Council must use the tool here, and the Progress Party calls for it to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e938	The size has been given a new majority, a majority that will have better well-being over new tax incentives, which will strengthen the community, which will have stronger government involvement in the development of employment and social life. This budget shows a new course: welfare over tax relief, strong strengthening of municipalities. There is room for better schooling, room for better elderly services, more and less affordable kindergartens, more can be treated at hospitals, new measures are being taken for those with the least, more measures are being taken to reduce unemployment, better conditions for those who have become unemployed, and a boost for culture. Of course, this priority of strengthening well-being, especially in the municipal sector, also means that there is less scope for investment in other areas than it would have been if such a priority had not been chosen. The Stoltenberg government has the ambition to create more to have more to distribute. Good transport and communication services are essential to ensure access to markets and to meet other business needs. That's why the new government and the new majority will have a stronger commitment to culture than what we saw under the previous government. We therefore see increased appropriations for transport already in this government's first budget, although there is a consensus that strengthening the school and older services in the municipalities must be given priority in this first budget. At the same time, it is important to achieve more rational progress in projects. It is therefore important for the Government to now seek project funding for the continuous development and modernisation of new road and rail sections. This is not a matter of more or less money for transportation. The Norwegian state's problem is not a lack of money! The challenge, therefore, is that the money must be used in such a way that we do not compete for jobs in competitive business. But the challenges are also to make the best use of the money. It is obvious to most that the progress of transport investment is not good enough. This is why there is always a balance between rational progress on projects under way and the willingness to respond to more projects. It is this assessment that the Government is now to carry out and that we should all meet with interest. Much of the debate on transport is directed towards road and rail. In a country with a long coastline where most of the freight is by boat and where the fishing industry must be a national bet area, great emphasis must be placed on strengthening the maintenance of the maritime road and increasing the allocation of fishing ports. I ask the Minister for Fisheries to pay great attention to strengthening the work on maritime safety and oil protection in the Barents Sea, among others. through the development of the establishment of the new traffic centre currently under development in Vardø. The new possibilities for electronic communications make it possible to remove essential parts of the distance disadvantages in District Norway. But it assumes that districts are guaranteed access to high-speed telecommunications networks, and it assumes that the new technology is being used deliberately to create development in the districts. The whole country must be offered high-speed telenet connectivity by the end of 2007, as envisaged by the Government. Finnmark is the only part of the country that is not connected to a nationwide broadband network. Finnmark County has, among other things: in cooperation with Telenor, developed a project that can contribute to the achievement of the Government’s objective of ensuring the country-wide access to the new technological opportunities. The Government has made it clear, on its basis, that public funds should be used to contribute to the realisation of development in areas where it is not commercially feasible. This is obviously such a case. I am therefore asking the Minister for Renewal and the Minister for Transport to contribute to this project being financed so as to ensure such an equivalent offer throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e955	Unlike the Bondevik II Government, the Stoltenberg II Government, or the Red-Green Government, has submitted a budget which is not in line with the NTP decisions of the same parties. It was probably not to wait, either, when we know that the compromise in the NTP Decision was based on the SV's demands relating to rail plus NOK 11 billion and the Progress Party's demands relating to road plus 11 billion on the other side. When the same two parties have complementary down priorities, it had to go wrong. They also took quite a short distance from each other. But the red-greens had taken on a clear commitment. In the entire election campaign, in any context, they promised that the NTP decisions would be fulfilled, if they were only given majority power. The result we are seeing here today. Despite the fact that you have had over a year, the result can only be described – a bit irreverently correct enough, but very descriptive – as a stomach patch. For our fresh Minister of Transport, who has also shown promising paces in some areas, this must be a solid downhill. But it should be right, an increase, especially in the road sector, is possible to see, even if it is smeared reasonably thin. We in the Right relate to this, but re-prioritise with the Christian People's Party and the Left, so that we strengthen racial protection by another 25 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal, and strengthens the very successful public transport reward scheme in the big cities, launched by Bondevik, by 75 million. kr. I would like to highlight the highly successful bet on OPS solutions initiated by the previous Stoltenberg government on the initiative of the Right. The Øysand-Thamshavn project, later extended to Klett-Bårdshaug, on the E39, the access road to Trondheim, became the first. This project has now been completed, and the results so far show a much faster implementation than traditional, and at a lower cost. It will be exciting to follow the evaluation of this and the other two OPS projects in progress. In the right, we are dedicated to developing rational and effective solutions that can help us get more money. Without pre-empting the evaluation, we will already announce that this seems to be one of several future solutions for the realisation of large and complex projects. However, we also have a sense of the desire of the State Road Administration to look at project funding, or perhaps more correctly at project allocation, also for traditionally solved projects under the direction of the State Road Administration. After the successful establishment of Mesta, of course, there will also be calls for tenders here, and outside works. But a more comprehensive funding plan will improve and lead to more rational and probably fairer solutions overall here as well. Then a OPS solution with any improvements and adjustments on the financing side, for example, can be a combination solution in the individual project. Finally, let me draw a point from the position where the whole committee agrees, namely that Fedje should be restored as the main depot for oil protection. In the area of Mongstad/Sture, close coastal areas are operated with a total of 2 500 large tanker calls per year, as well as often crossing and other short-haul services. Here it is not a matter of ships passing well away from the coast, but towing to and from the berth for loading and unloading, with the potential emission hazard of course this entails. It is therefore very gratifying that the majority of the Committee now asks the Government to come back with a case as soon as possible. I hope that our Minister for Fisheries and Coast can say something about this in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e972	Coast Norway has a major impact on the value creation of the country. Maritime transport and ports are therefore an important part of transport policy. The Government will facilitate safe maritime transport along the coast. This is important in order to ensure a clean marine environment, which in turn can provide a basis for value creation and coastal settlement. Preventive measures to prevent the occurrence of marine casualties are therefore still a priority. It involves efforts to maintain high quality maritime infrastructure and services. Furthermore, modern ICT systems such as AIS, Automatic Identification System, and the Safe Sea Net notification system play an increasingly important role in ensuring maritime safety. Consequently, continued developments in this area have a high priority in 2006. The 2006 budget for preparedness for acute pollution is 12 million in real terms. kr. The government will give priority to the upgrade of oil protection potentials and to the follow-up to experience following the exercise «Barents Rescue» in the autumn of 2005. The main depot of Fedje will be considered as part of an overall plan for upgrading the main depots. As regards the assessment of the towing boat standby, the Government will come back to this in 2006. Work on a new traffic centre in Vardø is planned. It is set by approx. Seventy-five million. SEK for investments in 2006. The traffic centre of North Norway shall be completed in 2007. Increased ship traffic along the Norwegian coast is expected with oil cargo from Russia. I am therefore pleased that the Norwegian and Russian authorities have established good cooperation on maritime safety and oil protection. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has negotiated a Memorandum of Understanding with the Russian authorities on a common system of notification and information. In this connection, I have invited the Russian Minister of Transport to Norway to sign the Memorandum of Understanding. The government has received enquiries from France and the United Kingdom, now also from the EU, calling for the continued operation of the Norwegian Loran C stations even after 2005. Russian authorities have also contacted Norway if possible to cooperate on the operation of Loran C. We therefore consider the possibility of continuing the national operation of the Norwegian Loran C stations in 2006, pending clarification of the situation elsewhere in Europe. The question of such continuation is now under assessment in the Government, and we will return to the Storting in an appropriate manner as soon as possible. In the spring of 2004, the Stortinget addressed the notification of the National Transport Plan for 2006–2015. Follow-up to the National Transport Plan will be a priority of the Government. As regards the question of the realization of the City Tunnel, this will also be presented to the Stortinget during 2006. In the context of the national transport plan, a socio-economic assessment of the structure of charges and charges was carried out. The Government will build on this work in the announced review of all fees and charges in maritime transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e995	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e998	I have a question about the reintroduction of the main depot at Fedje. The Precursors of the Council of State, from the Right Party, made sure to move the main depot from Fedje to Florø, i.e. out of one of Norway's most risky areas for tanker traffic. In the opposition, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, together with the Advance Party, were very critical of this. But of critical remarks, there is now nothing left but a possible main depot in Fedje. ‘will be considered as part of an overall plan for the upgrading of main deposits’. The point is that we have to get the main depot status back on Fedje, the most risky tanker area in Norway – in fact, almost all over Europe. Is the Council of State really in doubt that this is a high-risk area? Should not a high-risk area have a main depot for oil protection preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1013	This is a matter in which many have an involvement. I can just repeat what I've said, and what's in the proposition, that we're going to come back with the Fedje case in connection with the review of oil protection pots all along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1020	I'll continue there the previous replicant escaped. It is true that the Council of State has written a note on this in its draft budget, but the Committee has unanimously stated that we are concerned about this strong traffic in the Mongstad/Sture area. The Committee has therefore also, in the form of a comment, requested that the main oil spillage depot be restored to Fedje, and asked the Government to come back with a case to this effect as soon as possible. I don't think the council was as clear as you could expect when a unanimous committee was behind. Could the Council of State perhaps be a little clearer on how soon the majority will receive an answer to their comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1029	I just want to remind you that it is not this government that has deposited the deposit on Fedje. It was the other thing that did. I cannot now grant money over the table, but we will return this matter to Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1036	I very much agree with the Minister of Fisheries and Coast that maritime transport is important, and not least for the area of the country from which we both come. But at the same time, I seem to have marked it so by the commitment of the new Minister of Fisheries that it is primarily fisheries that receive attention, and the transport part of the Ministry of Fisheries area does not receive the same amount of attention. I accept very positively what was said here, that one should consider a continuation of Loran C, and I will signal that the Christian People's Party will be involved in supporting this, if you come to that conclusion. But then it's like it's been launched a heavy north zone bet. I assume that there will also be an impact on the Coastal Ministry's responsibilities along the coast. I see that there is a desire to increase the allocation of fishing ports and to strengthen the maintenance of the sea road. I just want to ask, can we count on a higher level of focus in the future on the north and the coastal routes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1049	I can reassure the representative Sahl that this government will have a strong focus on oil protection, maritime transport and everything that concerns highway No. 1st@item: inlistbox It is clear that in this context, the northern regions will be very central, not least in the light of the increased oil transport from Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1056	The Coastal Minister says she has a commitment to oil protection, and she has also shown her commitment to the fisheries policy. But she is also the head of the ports and some of the most urban struts of this country. The development of some of the most urban urban environments in this country lies precisely in this port issue. We've seen an international development here. Both London, Copenhagen, Amsterdam and many other major cities now have a very positive development of their docklands, which is something Oslo wants in the port area. I would like to give the Coastal Minister the opportunity to say something about his visions for the development of urban areas, given that she is also a port minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1067	The transport sector should not be a sector where cities and countries are set up against each other. The fact that it works in the districts is important for cities, and the fact that it works in the cities is important for the districts. In the case of ports, this government will facilitate ports as transport hubs, and we will facilitate good intermodal solutions. So we're going to focus on both city and country in maritime transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1076	Oil preparedness is very important and something everyone says they are concerned about. Then you get to hope that it also becomes action. However, prevention is also important, and then this with the labelling of traffic controllers is essential. For someone who comes from Grenland, there's something you're concerned about. We have a lot of heavy maritime transport going into the spring, and therefore the repair of the Brevik stream was within the state budget for 2006. Unfortunately, the previous government took it out. It's also followed up from the government that's now. My question to the Council of State will be: what will the Council of State do to reduce the short-term need of between 300 and 400 million. kr to improve the fairways along the coast? Will the Council of State ensure the speeding up of the repair of the Brevik stream — as well as the entrance to Ulvan — which was also inside in 2006, but which is now being pushed out in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1083	I wish the government had as much money as the Progress Party seems to have. The needs of ports and fairways are very great. The response of the Progress Party is to improve the efficiency of the Coastal Works and to put off competition. I would like the Progress Party to be able to clarify how this efficiency is to be achieved. If you want to remove the unloading service, do you have to reduce the effort in terms of guy and brand services, or are there other things? It is not funny to postpone projects, but the Government and the other parties on the Stortinget, as opposed to the Advance Party, have to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1092	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1095	We are examining the draft 2006 budget for the remit of the Committee on Transport and Communications. The question arises as to whether the majority's proposal for a budget for a transport operation can at all be called, because it was a strong commitment to the three parties promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. In the declaration, the three batches pledged an increased commitment to transport in line with the Stortingen decision during the examination of the national transport plan. But what the government manages to do in the first year of the planning period is just 460 million. kr in total, while the same batches in the context of the national transport plan were involved in the adoption of approx. 2.2 billion more for 2006. At best you can call the suggestion a tiny little mouse bet, but I'm afraid the mouse will be offended. Throughout the election campaign, the red-green parties flew from one to the other and promised $1 billion more to go and over $1 billion more to go. It was unfortunately not long these promises were to be trusted, scarcely 25 days. This must have been said to have been one of the fastest lifting break of some government. But I realize that the motto of this red-green government is that promises are one thing, but keeping them is something quite different. I want to focus a lot on what the Progress Party wants with the railway in the future. Many political opponents would argue that the railway policy of the Progress Party will mean the end of the railway. But these are claims that are based entirely on prejudices and lack of faith in the railway sector. The progress party is a supporter of – and wants – having a strong and competitive railway, but in order to achieve this, the railway must be able to compete on equal terms with competitors in the market. With the policies of the Progress Party, it is clear that the railway must be willing to change, and it must be focused on the fact that, of course, it must continue to operate on the sections where this is socially economical and not as it is now, that at any price one also wants to maintain the offer of the sections where there is no customer base and where it is also not socio-economicly viable to operate. In recent years, a number of investigations have also been carried out to determine which sections are socially viable and which are not. It is important to bear in mind, then, that these are important elements on which the Progress Party attaches great importance in its prioritisation of the routes on which the railway continues to operate. I am also convinced that the only guarantee that the railway will survive in the future is that this will be taken into account and that it will develop the sections that are socio-economically profitable and, if necessary, reduce the unprofitable sections that weaken the NSB and other operators operating on the rail network in Norway. The Government has also immediately put an end to the competitive outlook in the railway sector. It is claimed that competition will compromise security, and that it will weaken the company. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that the NSB has never delivered better results, and we see that customers are on their way back to the railway. Then the Progress Party is afraid that the new line that the Government is now adding up to can help stop the very positive development we have experienced. If the current policy continues, it will be the safest road to destruction for the railways in Norway. I also have to finally get a little bit into the minimum road effort that the government is putting up with in 2006. I am very concerned about the accident development in Buskerud, Uppland and Telemark. These are the three states that unfortunately have a negative accident development. I am therefore very concerned that the government has not chosen to focus particularly much on these three counties. For Telemark's part, the statistics are very daunting with 17 people killed in traffic this year, compared to six in all last year. Only on a three- or four-kilometre stretch of E18 through Bamble in Telemark have three people been killed, and many are injured on the same route. I therefore find it regrettable that the political majority would not have helped to ensure that an extra focus is placed on some of the sections of the sections that have had such a severe negative development. For the Progress Party, priority should be given to the development of the road network in order to reduce accidents. Here I would particularly like to point to the new E18 in the north of Westfold, where the accidents after the opening of the new four-field road were reduced to a minimum. This clearly shows that a real effort to build some new and proper roads reduces the number of accidents to a minimum.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1120	Good cross-border and cross-border communications are essential for achieving national goals related to value creation and welfare, industrial development and regional development. Modern society requires fast and reliable passenger and freight transport and postal, IT and telecommunications services. The transport system shall ensure good accessibility for all groups of society, while respecting the environment and road safety. This requires a varied effort and a differentiated transport and communication policy that can solve the different challenges we face in our country. The majority government is implementing its initiative in its additional draft budget. Here the government has found room to increase the traffic limits by 462 million. In addition to Bondevik's proposals for a budget for transport. This shows a willingness to take people's everyday lives seriously and to facilitate a positive development across the country. The majority government is continuing mainly the operations, maintenance and investment projects on the road and the railways underpinned by the Bondevik government in its proposal. In addition, there is also room for an increase that provides a much better follow-up rate of NTP than the Bondevik government’s proposals. This should provide the basis for a broad majority of the majority government's proposals here in the Grand Duchy today. The working party would like to see the follow-up rate for NTP even higher, but with the starting point from the Bondevik government, 462 million. a more offensive commitment to transport in 2006. An important instrument for achieving the objective of increasing investment in transport during the period is the creation of a project finance mechanism that contributes to more predictable and coherent road and rail development projects. The policy of the Bondevik Government for the outsourcing and privatisation of operational and maintenance tasks on the railways is more ideological than understanding and understanding the requirement of railway professional competence for the performance and performance of these tasks. Its policy in this area also shows a lack of understanding that it was not a market that was ready to take over these tasks when the Railway Agency was imposed on the conversion of the Bondevik Government – on the contrary. After completing a conversion and termination of 280 employees, it was clear that the dismantling had led to the railway works losing much of their core competence in operation and maintenance – a competence they really needed even further, in order to make good orders in a possible market and follow up and control the order. This could be disastrous in relation to the operational stability requirements of train traffic and the requirements for railway safety to be ensured. However, the railway manager called for warnings and the switchover was temporarily stopped. This shows that the government of Bondevik also understood the seriousness of the situation. This failure to convert clearly demonstrates that the outsourcing and privatisation of the public sector is the implementation of the ideological beliefs of the bourgeois parties, and not only the efficiency and modernisation, as it is claimed. I ask myself if there is any of the same thing that we see in the outlines of the conversion of Avinor by the government of Bondevik. I am pleased on behalf of all railway users that the majority government has now stopped the competitive outsourcing of the operational and maintenance tasks for good, and instead focused on the further development of the performance and target management and efficiency of the railway network. When the majority government says it wants to facilitate the use of the entire country, it also means a commitment to removing the digital class divisions that we have in our country and introducing a digital universal right. In many places, including central parts of the East, for those who believe that this is only about the deep valleys and high mountains, there is no such thing as broadband access. In order to stimulate a faster rate of expansion, and to contribute to the development of non-performing commercial actors, the majority government believes that the public must contribute financially. In 2006, there are 3 million. kr to map the status of broadband development in Norway. The objective is for the whole country to have an offer of high-speed interconnection at equal prices by the end of 2007. The development of a forward-looking high-speed network across the country facilitates regional development and the maintenance and development of local business. In this context, it is also important to point out that, in some places in the country, there is a parallel development of networks which are partly competitive with each other and which are supplier-dependent, while elsewhere in the country, it is not developed quickly enough. The working party believes that it is necessary to see the different developments in the context to a greater extent than so far. Instead of expanding parallel networks in key areas, we should stimulate the development of supplier-independent high-speed networks across the country and the use of existing networks. The majority government budget also gives a good start to the commitment to transport and communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1146	The use of ICT, information and communication technologies play an increasingly important role in creating a welfare society with security and progress for its citizens and boosting the competitiveness of business – and not least in renewing the public sector. Anchoring ICT policy through the eNorway plans dates back to June 2000, when the first eNorway plan was launched by the Stoltenberg I government. Several versions have arrived later, and the one we now have was launched by the previous government in the summer. This government has said that we mainly want to continue eNorway 2009, as that plan is called. But we have ambitions beyond that -- it should just be missing. In some areas, we want to take larger and faster steps than the previous government put up, for example. broadband, the digital rights of all people and a strong commitment to ICT in the school. The government's ambition is that Norway should be at the forefront and be a knowledge-based nation that is offensively exploiting and extracting gains from the use of ICT. It's necessary that we're leaning on ICT. We need to get a stronger commitment to digital skills and participation in the population, in the world, at school and in the workplace. We need digital input with good and easy access to the cultural heritage, to recognize it. We need to bring about an active and renewed industrial development within ICT, which makes Norway attractive as the development venue, which also requires more active investment in ICT research. We have to give business access to public data on reasonable terms in order to bring about a new development. We need to see that technological developments in the media and ICT are based on open standards and universal design. We also need to strengthen supervision of competition, security and people. The government believes that broadband is important, and that financial support to stimulate development is absolutely necessary if we are to realise the dream of digital all-man rights. In the Soria Moria Declarations it is called, among other things, that the whole country will offer high-speed network connectivity by the end of 2007. that there shall be no undue geographical price difference in relation to broadband networks. that public funds shall be used to contribute to the realisation of development in areas.’ where the market is not profitable. I'm glad that a collective committee agrees with the Government that in this area we're going to have high ambitions. I would also like to say that this is not just about district policy; this is important industrial policy. There is an important industrial policy for our high-skilled enterprises to be located in the districts — but of course can also be located in the cities — and have the infrastructure they need to be leading internationally. Per. August 2005 was 91 p.m. of households provided broadband – an increase of 10 pst. in one year. This means that today more than 1.75 million households have subscriptions or offer to subscribe to broadband under competitive conditions. There is no municipality without coverage anymore. The High-Level Scheme, which was first launched for the 1999 budget, has probably been a decisive factor in the rapid growth that we have seen in recent years. Hökom also has the highest priority in 2006. Although developments have been positive, the consultant company Teleplan points out that there will be a major need for state support to reach coverage up to 100 pst. Therefore, I have seen a breakdown in order to identify which areas are unlikely to receive market-based broadband services by 2007. As part of the mission, costs shall also be calculated in relation to the cost-effective expansion of broadband to households, to businesses and to public institutions. With cost-effective expansion, I believe that one per individual area assesses which broadband technology can provide the lowest expansion costs. Based on the development costs of the individual area, the level of State aid shall be assessed. This report will be completed by mid-December of this year. To the extent that there are flares in the rear of the transport network in separate areas, the distribution must also identify them. It's especially in Finnmark A have been busy with that problem. When the report is completed and these factors are mapped, the Government will work on different government support models, so that we reach the target by the end of 2007. Two final words about IT security, which is an important point in putting ICT into use. The National Audit Office has produced a report that says that the work is characterised by many actors and unclear responsibilities, and few planned actions have been carried out. The government is addressing this, starting work to look at it, and has several actions in progress to improve what is involved in IT security.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1187	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1190	It's interesting to hear the Council of State talk nice about how important broadband is in all parts of the country, both fjords and mountains and everywhere. So we know that at least in one state, Finnmark, there's almost zero broadband coverage. You can ask yourself why you should have an action zone when you do not have the opportunity to set up ICT companies in the county because you do not have broadband available. I also think it's passive of the government to propose only 3 million. kr extra for the establishment of broadband. The Progress Party has proposed 20 million. extra kr to Hoekom. We also have a proposal to set up a broadband fund. I'm excited about what the Council of State means. Does the Council of State think that is reasonable, and does she intend to support a proposal to set up its own broadband fund? Does the Council have a definition of what she puts in the word ‘broadband’? And what do you expect from that broadband that everyone should be able to get? What is the minimum of what the Council of State is doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1197	Here's a lot to answer within a minute, so let's see what we did. When it concerns Finnmark, I have answered that question. Finnmark becomes part of the analysis, the job to do. I get that report on the table in the middle of December. I've had a meeting with the district manager and the environment in Finnmark about the problem. This, of course, has the highest attention of this Council of State. So it's not like we're just going to spend $3 million. kr in broadband until next year. There are, for example: 69 million. kr within the High come bet. What's our point is that we need to know where we're going to spend money, and how much money we need to spend to reach the last percentages in this country that haven't got access through commercial expansion. There is a lot of help in creating a fund or a set of permissions without knowing how much we need. Our starting point is: first, let's figure out how many percent or what rural areas there are in this country that don't have commercial access, what kind of offers we're going to give to those districts, and what it's going to cost. Then we will come to Stortinget – it must either be revised or in the 2007 state budget – so that one can achieve the goal of broadband for everyone by 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1206	I liked many of the words in the articles of the Council of State. She spoke of ‘commercial expansion’. She spoke of "competitive conditions". I think that's the right track for expanding broadband. It is the track that has given a record rapid expansion of broadband in Norway. But I agree with the Council of State that there will be parts of the country that need state help to get to the goal. The comments state that the whole country will have broadband access in 2007. In the Council's last response to Hoksrud, she said everyone should have access to broadband in 2007. I ask myself a question, which I will also ask the Council of State: Can the Council of State help me to clarify the objective? Is it that everyone in Norway should be able to relate in 2007? Or is it that all municipalities or all parts of the country should be able to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1213	Now, fortunately, all the municipalities of the country per. Today, broadband is available, although not all towns and valleys are covered. What is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration is that the whole country should have access to high-speed networks. Then it's about making people use it. We have to make people connect. That is what has been exciting about commercial expansion. It may sound to the representative of Greece as if this government were against competition. We're not. Just broadband has been a place where competition has been sensible to have. That's why we've also gone in for it. The competition has also actually taken care of a greater percentage of the expansion than the one initially hoped for. For our part, it would have to go on, to say it like this. The most important thing is that the goal is achieved. We say that we believe that the public must contribute enough to reach the last percentages, but if the players in the market find it interesting to build out, we obviously appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1222	This is an area where, in the Stortinget, there is at least a lot of consensus about the goal, that we are going to achieve full broadband coverage for anyone who can benefit from it by 2007. But there has been a rather strong debate on how to achieve this goal. I have to say that I am delighted to hear the Minister from SV now talk so positively about the commercial actors. I also heard in the presentation of the Soria Moria statement that the minister commented on this with government appropriations, and that we should not intervene in the commercial activity, because it turned out that the commercial operators have done an incredibly good job. I can refer you to the debate on St.meld. No 49 for 2002–2003, where Inge Ryan expressed his opinion on this subject on behalf of SV : ‘I believe that the SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party here are far more ambitious in taking that force.’ Now we see that the Progress Party is calling for this. What happened to SV after they joined the government, since they now fully agree with the Workers' Party, which agreed with our government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1236	What has at least happened to SV in the government is that it is immeasurably fun to sit and be responsible for exactly this area, because this is heavily on the heart of this council. The fact that commercial operators take heavy responsibility, we are of course very pleased, because that means we save money on the state budget not to take that promise itself. But what is very important is that, as a state actor, we have a heavy responsibility now to ensure quick access where we lack it. I've used an example before, but I'd like to take it up again. I'm often criticized for being a district politician when I use it, and I say I'm a business politician. I have been visiting a business of competence in Building Town in Sogn and Fjordane. They operate by equipping boats, everything from large to small. It comes as a hull and was delivered from there that fixed the top technological boats. The company, located in Bygstad, pays over NOK 100,000 per broadband band, which they could have received for a fraction of the price if the company was in Bergen. That's the kind of responsibility the state has to take. We need to ensure that small towns, or any rural area in Norway, also have access to broadband of such quality that businesses can also be located in the districts, and must not be moved into large cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1243	So far, it has been difficult to understand what is really the government's IT policy, other than an election campaign commitment from SV on free mobile phones for all students. Mobile phones were even to be modern. This promise, like some other promises, was either cancelled during the election campaign, or put at the bottom of the drawer after taking over the keys of the Council of State offices. The Minister of Renewal has so far shown himself to be most opposed to competition and a supporter of monopoly capitalism. One of the areas where there is a real need for competition is the IT sector. The left wants to counteract the expansion of today's patent system, which will make it possible to patent ideas, algorithms and computer programs. Such extensions restrict free competition by the fact that the largest companies borrow patents and create a competitive situation that prevents other players from accessing the market and developing new ideas and technologies. Do the Councils agree to this? And what is the Government's policy to prevent large players from gaining monopolistic market power?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1253	There was a lot here – I was saying – to solve it. If the representative has not found out that SV and this government have very strong ambitions in ICT policy, I think we need to discuss it a little more often in Stortinget. One would like to go to the home page of the Ministry of Modernization and see, because there is a lot of good politics. We also have to come back to e.g. The opening of My Side. It is funded from the budget of the Municipal Committee, so if a week's time, we shall also discuss what is a quantum leap set to employ ICT in the public sector, to name a few. So to that with competition. The Swedish Government and the Swedish Government are very much in favour of competition. But we're in favour of competition where competition is an instrument. And then we've said that in some areas it's not: health, care, education – to name it. Open defaults are this government very busy. In this way, one player, or heavy performer, may be prevented from gaining a dominant position and may decide how to communicate by deciding which technology to use. I would like to look forward to the support of the Left in working with open standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1262	Digital All-Human Rights: I would like the Council of State to elaborate on what is contained in ‘digital all-man rights’. In the same round, the Council of State can also explain to the Stortinget where the digital class divisions, as specified in the setting, are located. Governments did not respond to replies from the representative Hoksrud earlier today – the definition of broadband. It is good to have a goal that all or all parts of the country should have access to broadband. But I would like to challenge the Council of State, when the Government has that ambition, in line with the Progress Party: what is defined as broadband? Is it 200 kilobits, or is it 2 megabits, or is it 10 megabits? Because I think that's very crucial. In today's market, you can get broadband down to 200 kilobits, which I don't consider to be broadband, but which maybe the government will consider as broadband in its bet to achieve that everyone will have access to broadband.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1269	Of course, what should be considered as broadband will be a little different depending on the type of user you are. A household has an assumed use for a type of broadband other than that of a high-tech enterprise that I call an example. Skulls with many users will also need a different need from that of a household. Therefore, it may make sense to have a user-oriented approach to it. Broadband is defined as two-way communication networks that can transmit different kinds of data, such as text, audio and live images, and that at the same time have to perform new services to allow many people to use the network at the same time. I've read the user-oriented approach. The OECD, to which the Progress Party refers in its comments, has two ways of defining it. They both have what they call service definition, which is what we call user definition, and then they have a minimum standard. And then they're going to go 256 kilobits. The EU has 144. What's being sold in Norway today has a minimum of 1 megabit. And evolution is just going forward. So I'm saying that it's not necessarily as wise to go to a low minimum standard. At least then you can be sure that the districts that get broadband last, perhaps also get the worst standard. Then it is better to use the user-defined standard as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1276	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1279	In the introduction I will quote directly from the Soria Moria statement and the section on road: The government will ‘increase the investment, operation and maintenance effort on roads, in line with the decision of the majority of the population in relation to the examination of the national transport plan’. This is the basis, and it's firm. Now we have to see the positive in that people in our country wanted a shift, a shift to a plural regime and a plural government, a government that builds its policy in a new and better direction, a direction that builds the country and gives individuals a better life, gives families greater security for home, children and work, and not least a government that will provide business with better framework conditions for developing, marketing and selling their products. This should form the basis for using the whole country. Therefore, transportation is important. We're going to build roads, bridges and tunnels to dampen the distance obstacles. We're going to build an infrastructure that provides efficient transport opportunities for our business. In this there is a considerable willingness to find logistical nodes that make it possible to use different modes of transport for the benefit of everyone. For all transport policies, security must be like a basic plank. We're going to work actively to approach the zero vision. Now we've heard a lot about not being able to fulfill our promise, but who is saying that? The party of progress had hands on the steering wheel during the entire Bondevik II era. What did the Progress Party do when the money was to be more than just air when the budget was entered into? In total, the Progress Party increased the permissions of the ordinary budgets by approx. 450 million. kr for the whole period. In the course of three weeks, the majority part prioritised 460 million. kr in addition to the proposal of the Bondevik II Government. The Bondevik II Government and the Progress Party will leave a follow-up of approximately DKK3.5 billion for the 2002–2005 planning period. Do these parties have any reason to become tall and dark? No, they don't. The majority increase the risk of racial protection by 50 million. kr. The reason for this is, of course, that everyone has a right to a safe path, one where parents can send their children on a bus to school without feeling insecure. In many parts of Coast Norway, ferry is a significant source of both joy and indignation. That is why it is important, as the Soria Moria Declaration states, that the national road ferries should be renewed. In this context, it is important that the new ferries become more environmentally friendly than today's diesel-powered ferries. Therefore, when replacing the ferries, the multiple parts will use LNG as fuel. Now it's the Rome Valley area that's going on in the renewal program. We've assumed that there will be LNG ferries. Just as for the Romsdal area, LNG ferries will be the right solution for the renewal of the ferries in the Boknafjord and Björnefjord connections. I am aware that new, fast-moving gas ferries are being developed that have significantly faster speed than today's ferries. Increasing the speed of each ferry means a much better connection. The majority argued that new gas-powered ferries should be produced in Norway as a research and development project. This will give the country new competence in the construction of ships using LNG as fuel, and thus the ability to transfer the technological knowledge we acquire through ferry construction to the production of other types of ships. In order to make the individual ferry connection the best possible for travellers, it is important that the ferry companies have carrots or incentives to make the trip as attractive as possible. This means that an assessment should be made of what gives the best pay, gross or net contracts. A lot of people talk about making use of net contracts. In order to obtain more of the transport by sea, it is necessary to establish a logistical hub for maritime transport. At the same time, the development of new fast-moving special ships for the transport of seafood and other products is necessary. Through a research project, Sintef, Rolls-Royce, offshore shipowners' teams and marine food processing companies are developing high-capacity boats and logistics systems. This work needs an active participation from your country. In such a perspective with high-capacity boats and logistics systems, a City Tunnel will also fill an important function by providing a weather-independent transport corridor to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1303	The election campaign before the last big shot is no longer possible than most people think well what was said. I spend a lot of my time in the election campaign talking about social affairs, or missing relationships, at least in Sogn and Fjordane. The same thing did the current Minister of Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete. In the first panel debate held in Sogn and Fjordane, in Olden, on 2 July, the representatives of the Labour Party and the Centre told them that an agreement had been reached that required these parties to add to the transport sector, including rail, DKK 2.2 billion per year. years. This game was repeated many times in election fighting. In a state like Sogn and Fjordane, the promises of the Workers' Party and the Centre were good music in the ears of the voters. Even though I meant that the additions to the trade, especially to the road, should be higher – much higher than what the Labour Party and the Center Party promised – I was pleased that these parties also saw the need to increase the rights to trade. In Sogn and Fjordane, as in the rest of the country, large economic resources are needed for maintenance and necessary investments in the road sector. The follow-up to road maintenance in the West is on its own for NOK 3 billion. In addition, 4.2 billion kroner are needed for racial protection in the county, a total of 14.8 billion kroner for the whole country. In my view, a good road link and the Progress Party are the most important national contribution to sustain value creation around the country. It's no wonder, then, that I, as a representative of a party that had social affairs as its main concern in the election campaign, got huge requests from business people. There was a clear speech from the business community. If we are to increase employment and value creation, it must be cheaper and better infrastructure. Charges must be reduced, toll stations must be removed, and roads must be cleaned up. Before the election, people from the transport industry contacted me most daily to tell me that poor road standards result in right fuel consumption and right maintenance costs. When fuel prices had doubled over a short period of time, despair was not difficult to understand. The signal was that many transport companies would not cope with the extra costs. After the new government has submitted its budget, the telephones from the same people have been able to revisit me. Frustration and anger over a government that has not shown the will to fulfill its aspirations are strong, very strong. In the election campaign, Liv Signe Navarse blamed me and the Advance Party for just having contributed with the "smear" to the road sector. She, like the Minister of Transport and the new government, does not, in my view, have an even bite with a small amount of dust. We also get to the right that the Road Directorate has planned new toll stations around the country, about 100, it is said. If this is done, the business situation, which is to transport its goods out and new raw material into it, will deteriorate significantly. This will impose on business transport costs so high that the investment will not be large in a state like Sogn and Fjordane. On the contrary, more and more people are talking about moving their business to more central parts of the country, or at worst out of the country. This poorly harmonizes with the government party's district policy. In my view, the new government's budget will simply contribute to centralisation. High taxes, multiple toll stations, high fuel prices are still high and poor road standards are not exactly music in the ears of business leaders, on the contrary. Instead of adding the promised $2 billion for 2006, the new government has only added 432 million. kr. Is this in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that the Government will increase the investment on the road, both for investment, operation and maintenance, in line with the decision of the majority of the population in the context of the management of the national transport plan? After my and the Progress Party's vision, the answer is quite clear: No. One must then be allowed to ask the new government if it is such as to understand that what they failed to keep their promises for 2006 will be retained for 2007. In the Progress Party's budget proposal, we have added 150 million to racial protection funds. kr. I want to hear about the Minister of Transport and the new government will support such an extra increase in racial protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1331	Despite the fact that the spokespersons of the then government parties in the election campaign assured us that the Bondevik government would follow up the majority position of the National Transport Plan for the period 2006-2015, the outgoing government subsequently left a relatively deplorable budget for transport. Thus, after years of lack of investment, there is respect for the new government, which in a short time has been able to increase the transport budget by nearly DKK 1/2 billion, on top of other important purposes such as better municipal economy, more money for hospitals, reduced parental payments in kindergartens, net pay arrangements for seafarers, etc. The Bondevik government left the government offices with a lag in transport investment of SEK 4.5 billion compared to its own long-term plan for this four-year period. Worst for the railway, which is struggling with a railway network over 100 years old, which is sorely in need of renewal. When the railway investment lag is DKK 2.5 billion in four years – and then I include the billion that has joined the new train radio system, which should have been funded outside the ordinary investment programme – long-term planning loses much of its meaning. Then you can just as well price a priority list as the government that is always in place can follow as far as it can. Then we don't waste hundreds of millions of dollars on extensive planning processes, major investigations and extensive transport plans. Knowing that the new government also starts the planning period with a delay of SEK 1.5 billion compared to the majority position in the national transport plan, the Soria Moria Declaration and the majority position of the Committee on Transport announce a new and offensive policy on transport, not least for the railways. The government says without reservation that it intends to follow up its national transport plan. That means railway investment in the order of NOK 2.6 billion each of the next ten years. However, the majority, i.e. the current government parties and the Progress Party, also provided that most of the investments should be concentrated on the first six to seven years of the ten-year period. Government appropriations for road and rail purposes must then either increase dramatically over the next four years, or debt financing and/or project financing must contribute to the continuous development of road and rail sections in this country. We've already seen what this has to say for road development. Most toll projects are, in reality, forms of project financing, with loans over the period of construction and payments in the form of tolls and government appropriations over time. The so-called OPS projects attempted in the road sector are also project financing. OPS projects are a method of financing that is normally used in countries with a lack of capital. As you know, the situation is not in Norway. For the railway, therefore, the suspension of the Transport Committee is a breakthrough. The majority say that project funding should be explored and used as a financing method for infrastructure investments as early as 2007. Thus, even with today’s level of funding, it will be possible to carry out all the investment projects included in the national transport plan. In this case, the period up to 2015 will be the decade of the railways, as the majority of the previous Storting wanted, when they adopted their national transport plan. Let me also add that the outgoing government left a delegation to the new government in the form of bonds in the investment budget, which points forward several years in time. For the railway part, this means that the investment funds are slanted across the rail network. The premise of the NTP was that the funds should be given priority to the area where the railway has its major advantage, namely the routes on either side of the Oslofjord – Østfoldbanen and Vestfoldbanen – and northwards towards Hamar and Lillehammer. For this reason, too, there is now an urgent need to increase investment in those sections of railway lines where transport needs can really be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1348	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1351	Let me first take the opportunity to address what must have been a clear misunderstanding in the debate earlier. Indeed, it was produced as a lucrative means of transporting passengers by train in urban areas. It's rather the opposite that's the situation. It is very expensive to operate the near-trafficking on the railway, for example here in the Oslo area. Reason is obvious: large quantities shall be transported in one direction for a limited time in the morning and in the opposite direction for a limited period of time on the efta. Of the approximately 1.6 billion used by the State for the purchase of passenger transport by train, most are used in the Oslo area and in the other urban areas. The Progress Party claims in the debate today and in its recommendation that the railway should be given priority where it is socio-economically viable. Still, they're going in to cut 800 million. kr for passenger transport by train, i.e. more than half the budget chapter. Isn't the railway socially profitable in the Oslo area and around the other big cities? This would result in a disruption of the rail service in Norway. I never marvel at the Advancement Party and their view of the railway. To discuss the railway with the Progress Party appears, I would believe, something like discussing theology with the Pagan community. The last thing I've done is I've done a little bit of it. The first thing I've done in the last few years is I've done a lot of things. I am happy that the railway gets more money today, including: 25 hurts needed millions to Lysaker station, but you world, there's a long way to go. The double tracks on the entire Oslo-Asker and Oslo-Ski route are in a hurry. The tracks should have been built yesterday. This year we have celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Union resolution with Sweden. I guess that's good. But 2005 was also the year when the daily train departures between Oslo and Stockholm ended. This is plain and simple. I am pleased that the committee majority determines that the aim must be to put in place daily train offers Oslo-Stockholm on Kongsvingerbanen. Let me finally make a little joyous outburst of what is now happening on rv. 2, where there is full construction at the first stage from the Klöfta and eastwards. The objective of visibility, as the Stortinget has previously expressed, must be to continue the continuous operation operations when Klöfta-Nybakk is completed in 2007 in order to have a new motorway standard road on the whole route Klöfta-Kongswinger.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1364	The Central Party and the Government will bet on roads in the districts. The competitive economy has clearly stated that this is the most important way to improve its competitiveness. This applies not only to transport, but also to good construction and labour market regions. This will make it easier for qualified people to live in our districts, and competence is a prerequisite for competitiveness. When it comes to our roads, at least on the coast, they have many holes, and these holes can be sealed in two ways: the one with a ferry, and the other with a ferry exit project. Both are important. In More and Romesdal we have 24 ferry routes, and our ferries have an average age of 29 years. It's important to bet on improving this. When some of the ferries are about to be offered, it is also important that there be a regional and perhaps local hearing before the offer is sent out, so that something is said about frequency, opening time, etc. Holiday relief project is also very important for the districts. We have e.g. The North Island Road in More and Romesdal, which is now included in the National Transport Plan. Today, 40 million will be used. kr in subsidies on that project. Once that road is completed, 9 million will be needed. kr in maintenance. This is a good bet for the state to go into. I should like the Center Party and the Government to have as much funding for the road as the Progress Party has. However, I believe that we must continue to invest in creative financing schemes. We see that politicians from most political parties, perhaps at least from the Progress Party, are investing in getting such creative funding. Then it is also extremely important that if there are some government dollars missing, then the government will tighten up and help with that. We have a project that's coming up now, the Atlantic Tunnel in More and Romesdal. It is important that it can be completed before Christmas. I am one of those who have been involved in the budget, both in the municipality, in the county and in the county before Christmas, and let it be clear: it has been here to be politicians in the county and in the municipalities this time than it was last time. Let it also be said that in More and in Romsdal we have separated several million into fixed decks on the county roads because we have increased the allocations to the county municipality. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1377	We must continue to build the country. People drive with finer and finer cars on worse and worse roads. From all over the country there is a demand for more money for transportation. The railroad's rusting. Today's debate has sometimes reminded me of some kind of World Cup in who promised the most and did less. I think there is reason to point out that the opposition is throwing some stone into glass houses here today. That's right: the government hasn't provided enough budgets. We promised more – we did – but that does not mean that we are not going to produce better results in transport policy in the next few years. We have to meet our NTP promises, but not within a year. We've been able to add 460 million. kr in three weeks. The amount proposed by the Bondevik government was even less than what they promised in their own attitude to the new transport plan. At the beginning of the new planning period from 2006, they actually amount to DKK 3.4 billion after what they promised they would have granted in recent years. Traffic is industrial policy, it is district policy, it is policies to maintain widespread settlement, and it is environmental policy. We can't, as the Progress Party wants, just build more roads to build ourselves out of traffic problems. Increased efforts on public transport and rail are needed to create an environmentally friendly whole of transport policy. We have to rust up the railway and get more goods over on the track. We need to develop and disseminate environmentally friendly fuel technologies by making it cheaper and easier for ordinary people to use, for example. hybrid car waiting for the hydrogen generation of cars. One of three large industrial enterprises in the districts says that moving production is tempting because of poor infrastructure. This applies, for example: the Moelven farm in Hedmark, from which I come. What Moelven and all the other companies in Hedmark want, and shouts for, is the better way, it's not tax havens. Therefore, it is incredibly good for the value creation that we now have a government that chooses to spend money on Community goods rather than on increased personal consumption. For my own county, Hedmark, the situation is quite precarious. We have one of the most deaths in the country – E6 through Ringsaker – and Hedmark is a large transit population and has a lot of heavy transport on a poor rv. 3 through the Østerdalen. The previous government AS-certified the entire transport sector and opened up more competition. This was a step in the very wrong direction, because it gave away political control over important infrastructure. The new government clearly and definitively says no to more use of competitive outsourcing and AS certification in the sector. We want more political governance and less market thinking in transport policy too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1395	The metropolitan area is struggling with the development of an efficient and environmentally sound transport offer. A stronger and more focused focus on public transport is the key to improvement. Over the state budget, nearly DKK 9 billion is allocated to public transport, but it is worth noting that the appropriations from the state budgets are almost the same. In total, the counties spent $6.7 billion in 2004, Oslo spent over $900 million. kr alone. Strengthening collective action therefore requires close interaction between countries and counties. The reward scheme for public transport in urban areas is increased to 150 million. kr in the 2006 budget – that's good. Although the money being set aside is a relatively limited grant in relation to what counties and municipalities themselves put in, this is an important incentive to develop new measures that can reduce passenger car traffic in favour of public transport. I would recommend the Ministry of Transport to engage in active dialogue with the counties in the metropolitan areas, so that this money is used through the reward scheme to develop better cooperation across county boundaries and closer interaction between not least the NSB and regional public society – it is necessary. Especially in the metropolitan region, there is a great deal to be recovered from the coordination of collective societies. NSB's local traffic, Oslo Sporveier and Stor-Oslo Local traffic are in a process of developing a common public society, but the results are waiting for the jam. Stor-Oslo Local traffic – SL – was established more than 30 years ago as a company owned by Akershus, Oslo and the state to contribute to coordination. It hasn't been like that, and SL is today a collective society for Akershus, but still with Oslo and the state inside the owner's side. Now Oslo, Akershus and the state are in dialogue about the creation of a new, common collective society. SKØ – the coordination body for public transport in the eastern region – has been given the challenge of establishing the basis for an order company where both NSB’s local traffic, Oslo Sporveier and Stor-Oslo local traffic are involved. Since the state is heavily involved on the provider side through the NSB and through its management of the SKØ, the responsibility for increasing progress in this work is the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Transport, and I hope that they will give this high priority. It is so obvious that there are coordination gains both on the cost side and in a better offer to people in the Oslo region if we get this done. We've spent too much time breaking through, so I'm just asking for an initiative that can work and that can make the parties act together.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1413	The 2006 budget year is also the first year of a new planning period for the national transport plan. In the start-up year, it is natural to link some of the budgetary comments to that very thing. The starting point for the first plan year is a 10-year plan with many and large investments, but also a plan that in no way meets the challenges and needs of transport in general and the road network in particular facing Norwegian society. It is a paradox that we are addressing a new road planning period with budget appropriations that do not cover the content and decisions of the plan. It becomes a double paradox when the nation of Norway is richer than ever. When, as a nation, we are less offensive to building infrastructure in the transport sector than many other nations we can compare with, it is not because we lack money. It's going to be a triple paradox when we, as a nation, lend out of our financial capital to other nations to invest in their own transport structure. Let's remind each other that road development is profitable, that road development could bring billions of profits in saved traffic accidents and reduced cows. Among other reports from SINTEF, this is evidence of over-measurement. The impact on business in savings alone is over 30 billion kroner per year. years. A frighteningly high proportion of our roads do not keep a measure in relation to what the State Road Service itself is raining as a good standard. It has been several years since professional economists also said what the Progress Party has always said: use some of the oil money to develop the transport sector. It is behind the ground for the first year of a new ten-year national transport plan, which only partially and too slowly provides Norway with better infrastructure for transport. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that a strong increase in the investment framework and in the system changes should be focused on ensuring that the increase is also well realised. Our road development framework increase is SEK 75 billion in the planning period. We are following up with 7.5 billion in the financial year, with proposals for system changes. I refer you to our verbal proposals in the vote. For the sake of balance, we're looking forward to two things. Project funding is part of a necessary system renewal, so we welcome it with joy. We are also pleased to note that the calculation rate is reduced to 4 pst, as we have proposed all along. It should also address the transport side and, in particular, road development. It makes many projects more profitable. It's fun to get it confirmed. This has been claimed by the Progress Party all along. Norway can afford to invest heavily in upgrading and improving the efficiency of the road network to ensure value creation in the country. We can't afford to leave it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1428	The representative of Trond Helleland expressed great concern in the debate that the competition policy of the previous government in the transport sector should be reversed. Competition can be a good tool to get the most back for the money, but it is conditional on there being some assumptions in place. Competition can work well in areas where the public and private sectors constitute a single market. Therefore, the migration into Vegvesen has also brought economic gains. However, the more public demand dominates the market, and the stronger public funding provides a framework for supply, the more limited the impact of competition. When e.g. the Oslo network is exploited close to 100 pst. in the context of drug addiction, competition between several actors as a means of improving supply, frequent departures and improving regularity becomes a very low effective instrument. In recent years, tenders have been used in the bus offer. However, the local bus offer remains a monopoly in competition with the private car. And then, when the most important framework condition for the offers lies in the grant granted by political authorities, competition for the offer will ultimately become the employment conditions of employees – often with the result that many dozens of employees have to change employers every third or fourth year, with the consequences it has for seniority and conditions and for job and future security. In that case, competition has a clear limitation as a means of improving the provision of services to users, and it has clear costs that must be weighed against the limited benefits it may have for the level of funding. Or take aviation: the competition has given lower prices, but it has also given rise to a number of bankruptcies, and many large companies in international aviation are faltering. In addition, we often get half-full planes flying at minutes' intervals between the same cities. This is then much less profitable from a socio-economic point of view, not to say directly unprofitable, even though users can get reasonable travel. Bankruptcy and significant overcapacity are also wasted with resources, both economic and human. I was with the finance committee visiting Deutsche Bank in London three years ago. There, the director of that bank just pointed to the restriction of competition as a tool for important parts of society’s infrastructure. He pointed out the negative results of privatisation and competition policy for the UK railway, with a fragmentation of responsibility and a weakening of safety and maintenance. The Director of Deutsche Bank said that the next area where society had to take greater joint responsibility was aviation. Competition as an instrument also has significantly stronger constraints in a country that, by nature, is equipped with more land than people, and where fjords and mountains create quite small and many local markets, than in countries that have more population than nature and distances. These are aspects of competition as an instrument underpinning a new and more sensible policy in this area – in short, less ideology and more performance orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1439	In the Soria Moria declaration of adventure, the Government promised to follow up its national transport plan. The NTP assumes that there is too little, but absolutely no, investment on the road and on the railways. When the government is going to deliver the promises in the budget, we see that Soria Moria is completely forgotten, and that the entire stay is practically placed in the government's forgetfulness. It's worth noting, because it'll hardly be the last time. The E18 through Vestfold has a completely irresponsible standard. It provides a little cozy place as one of the worst ways of death in the country. It is only the proposals of the Progress Party that take account of a faster and safer development of four-field roads. In 1975 at least two important things happened. One was that for the first time I saw the light of the day, and the other was that for the first time it was decided that the E18 through Westfold should be a four-field highway. And here I stand, 30 years later, asking for the road to be built 30 years ago to come. The development is now completed on one third of the route through Westfold. And from 2001, which was the last year of two-field road, to 2002, which was the first year of four-field road, the public saved 120 million. kr only in reduced accident costs of that third. That means the road is financing itself. Nevertheless, tolls from the drivers are required for the state to do its job, and I think that is gross. Despite great promises from the government parties about road betting, there was no more one penny to the roads of Westfold. Neither have we seen anything else about the railway operation, which the government parties promised to do in Westfold. The representative of Gullvåg, who was in the pulpit earlier today, promised in a direct radio debate $4 billion for the railway in Westfold. We haven't seen a single ear. But what is happening now is that the representative of Gullvåg, together with the magnificant Thorkildsen in the newspapers, goes out to the people and asks for rail mobilization. They want torch trains and slogans against their own government's lack of bet on the railway in Vestfold. There is a new way to take responsibility, which I register is fixed far into the Government Quartet. In addition, the Gullvåg proposal on what he calls the project financing of the double-track railway comes. There's nothing but a new kind of bomb on the railway. The ticket price for a return trip with the Vestfoldbahnen from Larvik to Oslo is NOK 478. The return price from Tønsberg to Oslo is 346 kroner. How much is this going to cost with the new system of the Workers' Party? It is good that there are only four years between each major elections in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1452	I have taken the floor again to try again with the Minister for Transport. This is about the question that I had in a line to her, and that goes on the so-called N.E.W. Corridor, a new east-west corridor between China and the United States. It's a project that's well-known by the ministry, and that the previous government was with and supported. It gave the project something pondus by joining the U.S. and negotiating. There's a lot of interest in both China and the United States in finding a new transport line west through Narvik to the United States. There are several reasons for this. It cuts, among other things. at least 20 days. I believe it has also been mentioned 40 days shorter transport time. In addition, the US is under heavy pressure on the ports on the west coast, while they have much greater capacity on the east coast. It is a very exciting project, which has been used very much to drive locally. Gradually, they have joined the International Railway Union, and the head of the project group is also the leader. It has been aired with the committee, and it has been aired in the department several times. It is a very commercial project, but when it comes to negotiating, there is competition between them, and we know that there are strong interests for this to go through the Baltic Sea. As the situation is at the moment, Narvik is at the moment. You have come so far that you actually have to have a test ride on the route. The problem of different track gauges has been solved so that you can now drive directly – the locomotives and wagons change track gauge themselves. There are large sums of money in the project. My question to the new Minister of Transport is not about money, but simply about whether she wants to get involved in this project and grab a grip on it to give it to the pondus, because when it comes to negotiating cross-border transport, it is important that state authorities are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1463	The left believes it's important to take a strong environmental dimension when we're dealing with transportation. The need to move people and goods is increasing both on land and at sea. This need needs to be stepped up in order for us to have a healthy and good economic development. It is important that we do it in such a way that it does not increase pollution, but that new measures reduce emissions to our vulnerable atmosphere. In addition to the work on land-based public transport, the Left has worked a long time to get gas ferries in traffic when we switch out old and too small ferries along the coast, to reduce CO2 emissions. It's nice to see that the government's party is also eager to get gas ferries on new ferries. We hope that we can do a common cause. In addition to the environmental aspect, the construction of gas ferries will be an export product capable of stabilising production at Norwegian shipyards. The need for new ferries is more stable than the changing needs of fishing and offshore. Norwegian shipyards may become specialists in gas ferries and other gas-powered ships. Several gas ferries will also be involved in creating a larger market for LNG here in the country. Gas ferries that have already been set up have given us experience, and it looks like it's on the longest distances we get the greatest environmental gain and most of all for the money. We have a lot of distances. in More and Romesdal, to be offered in December, and it is important to provide for these routes to have gas-powered ferries. Gas ferries are more expensive to build than other ferries, and the extra costs with them must be covered without compromising the ferry supply in the areas where they are being inserted. In addition, Mr Left, it is important that the idea of setting emission requirements for ferries is further worked on, in order to improve the conditions of competition for companies competing for the supply of gas ferries. It shall be exciting to see, when the offer is to be made in the near future, if the Directorate of Road imposes a requirement for the use of gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1479	In the article to Jan Sahl, there were many things that were affected – many visions. But my reply was to know why not the representative Jan Sahl and the Christian People's Party did something with all the good wishes in the government position, including the problem of sleeping cars on the Nordlandsbanen and Sørlandsbanen. At the time when the budget was presented, it was known that this scheme would be abolished. I also asked the representative if they were not satisfied with the effort on the Nordlandsbahn as this government has done – without any answers. What Jan Sahl does, is that he strikes back against the Workers' Party, and will not participate in the bet that the representative withdraws in his post. That's not what I asked. So to the representative Per Sandberg, who says – as I see it – that there were comical intersections of the other parties' bets on transportation. I perceive that it was also included in the previous government. I think the comedians can stand up for the Progress Party and the Sandberg. The reduced investment and the slowdown on the transport side are responsible for Per Sandberg, the Advance Party and the previous government. You can't shift responsibility on others. I think one should be so honest to say from this pulpit. During the last period, there were three budgetary settlements between the Bondevik II Government and the Progress Party, if I have not perceived that as a mistake. This must be the responsibility of the Progress Party and of the Sandberg. So a little visit to the representative Trond Helleland from the Right. It is not the case that the EU has decided to terminate the exclusive field of the Post in 2009. This is the way — a proposal is coming forward, and it is now being adopted — for the EU to assess the exclusive rights of the Post Office in 2009. There's a significant difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1488	Good transport policy is good environmental policy. It is good district policy and not least good industrial policy. As a representative of Eastfold, it is quite natural for me to draw attention to the major challenges that exist in our country. Eastfold is the gateway to Europe. All 75 pst. of all goods en route via our two European roads – E6 and E18. Eastfold Package 1 is now in a demanding phase, with large installations on E6 and parallel expansion on E18. These two facilities still need to ensure continuous progress, as the majority of today’s position underlines in the comment on the Eastfold package. A continuous progress is also a quite natural follow-up to the clear statements made by both the Workers' Party and the Centre during this year's election campaign. Yes, it was given as clear, and even written guarantees, among other things. by party leader Åslaug Haga on the completion of the E18 by 2009, that we hope, as the Minister for Transport himself has said, that she will win the budget in the 2007 budget. But hope must also include some work and decisions that support what was said earlier this autumn. It is a major responsibility of the majority government. The Christian People's Party is also willing to take the responsibility we have. The third element of the Eastfold package, namely the development of the railway tunnel through Moss, must also be clarified and started. The money in the NTP for Haug-Onsøy should be relocated to the car park, so that we get a continuous expansion of the line, which has also been a crucial premise in the handling of this case in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1501	I shall weigh my words, simply to try to avoid withdrawing the debate. But to the representative Ström: Yes, I think it is a comical intersection of Norwegian transport policy. All parties engage in an election campaign and promise billions of bets in their local, regional and national areas. But no thing to follow it up. I think that the vast majority of voters, including Strom's voters, think it seems comical. It'll probably get results gradually, when we get new choices. That's what I said. There is also no other place in politics where there is so much distance between promises and action, and it gives a comical impression. There are many who have been to the Progress Party today, and we are used to that. There are many who have called for and wanted the same resources as the Progress Party has. State Council Pedersen said it so safely, in a way: I wish I had had all these means that the Advance Party has. But everyone has the same access to resources. It's overflowing with resources in this country. We soon don't know how to deal with all of these resources. The representative Blackevik said that we are now borrowing money to our neighboring country, so that they can afford to build roads. It's not that there's a difference in access to resources. The difference is the will and an incomprehensible rule of action. There's the difference between the Advance Party and all the other parties. If you want to bet on the way, you can bet on the way. I'm starting to get a little bit annoyed at all those who are now going to defend the government, and who say they've only had three weeks on them, and that they've got so much in three weeks. This cooperation project, which they now have in Akersgata, has been in place for over one year. We don't have to go back any further than June: then they had a comprehensive plan for how to bet when they came into government together. So they've had a lot more than three weeks, and they have access to the resources. I think the red-green parts should stay out of this. Finally, I would like to challenge the Council of State on one thing. This applies to universal systems of public transport, which, regrettably, the Committee has, in a way, been a little overdone. I think it is important, because the Storting has made a decision in relation to it, and I know that the Council of State is also well aware of this through enquiries from various organisations. Now I ask the Council of State to take action, so that we can put in place a commitment to universal arrangements with regard to ticket machines, so that disabled people can also have access to public transport properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1514	Transport policy is also district policy. We have heard several representatives of the Workers' Party say from the pulpit here today that you are very pleased. A working partyman who is not so much satisfied is Tore Sandvik, who is the Workers' Party's deputy rapporteur in the South-Tronde Team. He calls the Bondevik government the priority of the E6, the country's lifeblood, a gastric plaque, and that it was embarrassing for Børge Burnde and the Right in the South Trondelag that no E6 in Soknedal entered the state budget. So now, with the Labour Party at its head, the majority of the Stortinget intends to adopt a budget that does not involve a stake of E6 in Soknedal, the country's lifeblood. There's been a lot of talk about rail and broadband. I want to draw something close to my heart, salmon farming, the fastest growing industry in Norway, one of the few industries that have a growth potential that is able to fill the lost oil revenues we will see in the future. It is possible to build a railway from Trondheim to Hitra and Frøya, where most of this production in my part of the country is happening, but I don't think it's likely. But one thing I am absolutely certain: it is not possible to send salmon by e-mail! Unfortunately, the Minister for Coastal Affairs and Fisheries is not here now. However, I would like to point it out from this pulpit, when questions were asked about it instead and said that the Progress Party can afford very much in terms of oil protection. I want to say that I don't think we can afford not to prioritize oil protection. An example of this is that when Prestige disappeared off the coast of Spain, it cost the Spanish State 45 billion kroner. We cannot afford not to give priority to oil protection in Norway. The representatives from the Workers' Party, Tor-Arne Stroem and Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen were very concerned about this, and mentioned from the pulpit that this must be given priority. I hope that the Minister for Coastal Affairs and Fisheries will take this with him, and that the performances that came out of the pulpit today are more than a greeting at home. The centre party, SV and the Progress Party have previously agreed on an increased investment in oil protection. I hope we get the help from the Center Party and the SV that we need to get to an increased priority of oil protection in Norway. Because we can't afford to ignore that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1526	Through my time as a politician, I have had a lot of meetings with the business community, both large and small companies, and then it would be thought that it was preferably nutritional measures that were discussed and demanded. Some were, but the main requests from most were a good infrastructure, i.e. a good name, and in particular that road is more important than track. If you don't have good roads in and out of a district, you can almost forget a further development in housing and business. The signals are often: Forget business, small amounts of support for yours and your daughter, etc. Use more for transportation and preferably more for road! As a Hedmark politician, I see that you are very dependent on good roads for the county to evolve in a positive direction. In addition to Uppland, there are probably almost no other counties who have so little money for transportation compared to the number of kilometres of road. Another thought I'm doing is whether trasé choices are something everyone and anyone should be able to care about and believe anything about, or whether this is going to be in this room for big investments. The choice of trajectory and the debate/discussement that this gives often make projects take a long time. Here's Rv. 2 a good example of a long trasé debate. If I remember correctly, this has taken over 12-13 years. It shouldn't be like that. In the case of inland transport, it is very dependent on a lot of transport of goods and persons. It is very widespread, as well as larger than, for example, Finnmark. Of course, residents also have a large transit transport. A lot of goods are transported here on narrow, curved roads that are often poorly maintained. The result will be many accidents between, for example: trucks and normal passenger cars. Good social development depends on a good cause. In the case of rv. 3, which lies outside the Lotto line of 2, 4, 6 and 16, from Hedmark and Uppland, I believe that this should and must be prioritised, which may seem to be just the Progress Party that thinks. It was very gratifying that, under pressure from the Progress Party during the revised state budget in spring, 40 million were allocated. kr for repair. In addition, the Road Service found over 10 million. kr. This money was used quickly, and we got many kilometers with better and safer roads for everyone. But there's more to it than that. That is why I find it very regrettable that today’s government has not allocated one penny to Rv. 3, or referred to as rv. 3 in its notes. The party's first candidate from Hedmark went so far that he promised 100 million. kr in the year until rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox Where's this money? It's probably in the government you have the opportunity to make your promises. As a so-called district party, this should have been the first priority for the Central Party. The question will be, where is rv? 3 in Government Plans? And where is the Central Party, which even has the very important position that they have the Minister of Transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1539	In the budget setting, funds have been added for the planning of a new double track between Kolbotn and Ski and for the conversion of Ski Stations. Finally, I must say. The existing double track between Oslo S and Ski is today a bottleneck for both passenger and freight traffic. So an extension of this distance has been on the wallpaper for a long time. The expansion of Ski Station is part of Oslopackakt 2, approved by Stortinget in 1999, through St.prp. No 64 for 1999-2000. It was suggested that the expansion of Ski Station should start in the period 2002–2005. Unfortunately, this has not happened. This is very unfortunate, as Oslopackak 2 is a comprehensive financing plan, based on an agreement between state and local authorities on the maintenance of essential public transport investments in Oslo and Akershus. I am therefore pleased that the draft budget has provided funds for planning which we will adopt later today. The double track to Oslo S will mean a lot for Ski, and it will mean a lot for Follo, for Akershus and for Østfold. It will be the new gateway to Europe. With a well-developed railway network, many more people will take the train. It benefits both the environment and people. The double track case from Kolbotn to Ski has been included in the national transport plan 2006–2015 and is a priority in 2006–2009. This is also the top priority of Eastern cooperation. One of the largest collective investment projects is the double track from Asker to Oslo and on to Ski. This will be crucial for the closure of transport in the capital city area and will relieve the heavy pressure on the road system, including: on E18 between Asker and Oslo. It is very important that this project be continued without delay, after the Asker-Sandvika section has been completed. With the Bondevik government's draft budget, there was actually a danger that the double-track would be two years late for Lysaker. I'm glad that the new plural will allow 25 million. kr extra for the expansion of Lysaker station, so that the project achieves more optimal progress. The government's bet both at Lysaker Station and at Ski Station and the continuation of the double track is unlikely to be important for Akershus and for our country. That is why the budgetary position we are about to adopt today, with a follow-up in 2007, is an important step for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1556	The Minister of Transport said in his post, freely quoted: we have a very fine masked airport offer throughout the country. As a representative of Buskerud, I thought, "Is that my state?" No, no, no. Does it apply to Telemark, Hedmark or for the sake of the case Uppland, where Leirin fights each and every concession round to keep his flight route? The time it takes me to travel, is much longer than the time it takes for those who live in Tromsø, to travel, but I no longer stay away for miles. All these counties are transit counties for traffic east-west or north-south. All these counties are recreation areas for the stressed urban population, which leads to enormous traffic – from and to – every weekend. In addition, there is a lot of heavy traffic, of course. None or very few of the visitors can come to the airway. All traffic must come on the road – and some places on the road as well. Fortunately, in the Stoltenberg II government's budget, it was added to several hundred million dollars. That is good, but of course there is a need for much more in the future. For Buskerud, the addition to asphalt and maintenance totals 9.3 million. kr. From Akershus' limit to Sogn and Fjordne's limit to more than 8 billion SEK along the rv. 7 and Rv. 52. In other words, it is far before the standard is also satisfactory there. My invitation to the Council of State is: Can these additions be re-prioritized to the purchase of services for trains? The state politicians in Buskerud and we who are users of trains want us a morning train, a train that can be inside Oslo in the morning, and not like now, that the train is inside Oslo at half past three in the afternoon. But it's a man. It must be more long-term than that it needs annual budgetary appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1573	It is interesting to sit in the hall and right that the former government parties are drivers of projects that they themselves do not have the power to raise. It's also interesting to sit and right partner of these government parties for three years, the Progress Party, a little bit on the same line. This government did not come to a covered table, as the previous government party claims. We came to the dishwasher instead. For example, before transportation, the bonds amounting to NOK 16.5 billion are only on the road. The start-up of a lot of cost-requiring projects, with small government promises and a large amount of toll from the state, is the reason. When it's for the railroad, we see, for example, the take-off run for the nominal distance Kolbotn–Ski is 35 million poor. kr in 2006, while the total cost is NOK 2.6 billion. For this reason, most of the additions from the multi-annual government have been put into existing projects to ensure better and more rational progress. It is fun to sprinkle the champagne bottle and notify new projects, but someone has to pay the bill. To the representative Sahl, who mentioned a corridor from China to the United States: it's an exciting project. At the Ministerial Conference in Verona, where I was present, the United States was also its Minister for Trade. I took the matter up with him, and we were certain that this matter should be discussed and raised further between our two countries. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is also coordinating this work. They're in contact with my department and other departments, as a matter of fact, they're in contact with the industry, and with China and the United States. And I can say from this pulpit that this case should be the focus of the plural government as well. The representative Sundsbø challenges me to engage in active dialogue with the county councils in the metropolitan areas, so that the funds are used through the boarding system to improve cooperation across county boundaries. That's a good advice. I will also follow up Sundsbø's desire for an initiative through SKØ to be a driver in the creation of a new collective society in the capital area. The progressing party thinks that there's a comical thing that happens that different parties don't meet their promises. But what has the Progress Party done when they have been in a position to lift traffic? Three years' budget - where were billions? 449 million. kr is not so much to write about when Åge Starheim from Sogn and the Fjordane Progress Party in the election campaign promised 10 billion fresh funds each year. It puts the Progress Party in a certain comical situation when we know what they got into collaboration in the previous period. Neither does the Progress Party have a multiple. They also need to cooperate with others and clearly understand what this is about in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1588	Project financing should not make the user more expensive, as the representative Anundsen claims. Project financing means, in short, that a preference is given to making state capital available to the developer, so that the developer has a certainty of rapid and rational progress of the project. This will be repaid through the annual budgetary appropriations and, of course, it will also be paid through toll collection on road projects financed by tolls. But I have not yet registered that someone has suggested toll collection on the Vestfold track, so in that case it must be a solid misunderstanding. So, during the debate, the government has been critical of the fact that one has stopped the competition at the railway station. The actual ratio is – and it is stated in the proposition – that one stops the outsourcing of the areas that have an impact on operational stability and security. The background for this is that there was a shift and a postponement of tasks in the railway works that simply went beyond safety, according to what the railway manager himself said. The reason was that one outsourced work and at the same time reduced and gave up competence. And then it wasn't a supplier market that had good enough skills, and that had the ability to manage those jobs safely. Consequently, the Railway Agency should carry out its own tasks relating to operational stability and safety. That doesn't mean that all the competition has been shattered for that reason. If you look at the Gjövik track, you're saying that you've got a much better train offer for a much lower price. But if you go a little bit behind what happened on the Gjøvik track, you'll see that everything here is optimized in a small organization by making material available for NSB supply. This was on the Gjøvik track, but if you want to start dividing the NSB in this way around other sections of the track in this country, you will not get the same effect. My claim is that that efficiency can be achieved by negotiating with the NSB about the annual purchases and making clear claims in this way. We can look at the state road system and what has happened there. Now the government doesn't have a notice that one should do something about it here, but the actual ratio also is that we've got messages from the quite country that road maintenance has been far worse after the reorganization than it was before. The yellow car with a man with a spade that filled the hole has been completely gone, so the hole has been able to lie down in the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1599	I share the wishes of my fellow countryman Anders Anundsen for the development of E18 through Vestfold. The remaining routes are road-hazardous and a new four-field road throughout the county will significantly improve the road safety situation. The difference between Anders Anundsen and I signed is that while I want to expand the E18 at the pace set for it – and the next stage is the Langåker-Bomstadt route, which this assembly will decide on for spring, as far as I understand it – Anders Anundsen does not want to expand the E18 if the funding method is tolls. Then the Anundsen of the Progress Party does not think that road safety is so dangerous anymore. He opts out of development if it is to be financed by tolls. It is quite right, as Anundsen claims, that in the election campaign I have said that we will spend between 4 and 5 billion kroner in the next decade to expand the Westfold Railway. It is identical to the promise that this government has made through the Soria Moria Declaration, and the promise that the Party of Advancement gave to voters when they were in the majority vote on the transport plan two years ago. The Progress Party has also made the same promises to the voters in Westfold. My Soria Moria is the day when the journey time between Tønsberg and Oslo is reduced to less than an hour. I would like to believe that there are not many people who, knowingly and mentally, sit in the car and drive to Oslo during the rush periods without having to. As you know, it can take both two and three hours for the queue to stand in and out from Asker. Then it may also happen that the train passengers make room on the road for those who have to arrive. I also remember that the business community today has a time loss in the billions every year as a result of the delays in Oslo traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1608	The representative Rudihagen tried to explain to me what project funding is. I'm familiar with what project funding is. If the Vestfold Railway is to be financed, it will have an annual cost of approximately 500 million. kr. It can either be made as a mark-up on the ticket price – as I mentioned instead, it is from Larvik 478 kroner-return Oslo – or it can be taken over the state budget. Most people in this room are familiar with that 500 million. kr is more than the sitting government managed to scrape together for a total meridian effort for road and rail operations in 2006. To believe that this room will then grant all these crowns to the Westfold Railway for the future, I think something naive, and that is why I am quite sure that a project financing of the Westfold Railway will lead to a mark-up in the ticket price. I don't think the representative Gullvåg is getting his will in relation to getting people to drive more trains than a car, and to freeing up space on the E18. It just becomes too expensive. I am pleased that the representative of Gullvåg supports the desire of the Progress Party for an accelerated road development. The representative made a number of claims as to what kind of priorities the Progress Party is doing. The main priority we are doing is to provide adequate funding in our budgets. I wish – now I know it's not the right place to wish, but I do it anyway – that the government actually did the same, so that there was power behind the words the representative Gullvåg came with from this pulpit. But I'm afraid we can't experience it. I would also like to say that in the name of the discharge there is an opinion in Tønsberg's magazine by the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who, together with the representative Gullvåg, went out and had good congratulations for the development of the railway: ‘The County and Business in Westfold must know their visit time. I miss bigger tires and drag help from home." That's what they got. They have been given the voter's confidence to rule the country. There must be sufficient strain in this chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1622	It was actually Gunn Berit Girde who got me to take the floor. She was very wise and forward-looking about gas ferries. However, I must point out to him and to the Left that it is the Soria Moria declaration and the government fraction of today that is the basis of the initiative taken for the review of this theme in the Committee's configuration. It is good that the Left will be on the team. However, it may be perceived as overtime. In the Bondevik II government's draft budget, it is e.g. did not specify any requirements for the new connections to be out on offer, e.g. the four in the Rome Valley area. Then it was the Left who put the leadership in the department. So to the meaning of broadband. It is an area that is by far the focus of both the debate today and the setting. There is a striking difference between the government party's reference and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are united, in addition to what is common in the committee position. I was in Ølen the day when the government of Bondevik II presented a big message about broadband, where Ølen – a business community well-known for its initiatives in the field of industrial development – was one of many municipalities that were a white spot on the map. It was inconceivable. They should therefore not be granted State involvement even if the market is not reached. The difference in today's setting is in a much more offensive hold from the Government and the closest naive threat to the market that the previous government seemed to have in this important area. Norway is a country with great potential. The center party wants us to manage our resources in a more wise and forward-looking way than we have until now. Today's debate has shown a government that has a higher ambition for society than the Bondevik II government. I think it's a particularly good starting point for a better management of our resources, and a far greater possibility for the individual in this country to choose where he or she wants to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1633	I represent Finnmark here at Stortinget – the largest county in the country in terms of area, a county of size with Denmark. We have huge challenges in the transport sector. There is one thing I have been particularly concerned about for many years, both in local government and county councils, which I think is important to bring out here too, and that is the miserable mobile coverage we have several places in the country in general, and in Finnmark in particular. In view of the large distances we have within the county, with very scattered settlements, dark times, several months of blasting, columning and refurbished roads, my highest wish is that we need to get full mobile coverage as soon as possible throughout the county. Then we can at least get help if the accident should be out. As it is today, we drive miles by mile without coverage, and that's not how we can have it in the future. This is a very important matter both for those who work in the mountains, and for those who work at sea. Something else I'm concerned about, is the repair of the E6, into Finnmark from the west. It's the only way into the county where all of the heavy transport goes. Trailers with fish and food are running there. E6, about from the state border to Alta, is today in a wretched constitution. In particular, in the context of food preparedness and for those living along the road, and in the general context of business, it is now particularly important to make progress in this process. I am therefore pleased that the new government is participating in the start-up grant for the Bondevik government and Torild Skogsholm next year with 20 million. NOK for this E6 section. I now hope that in the years to come, we can get additional funds for this route, so that this project can be carried out without any stop during the construction period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1646	After the post by the representative Anundsen of the Progress Party, I cannot stand up – I have to take the floor again. The representative said, among other things: that we didn't keep our promises, and that we forgot the railway when we laid out our budget. That's obviously wrong. I want to ask the representative Anundsen to have some ice in his stomach, so we'll sum up later in the period of which promises have been fulfilled. I'm absolutely sure we're going to do this. In addition, I would like to recall who made a settlement in the previous budget, including: was so bad when it came to transportation, that the railway works could not even afford to plan the railway lift to the red-green ones from the NTP. Don't forget it! When I first talk about forgetting, the party of progress cannot boast about delivering many promises. When the Progress Party presents its transport budgets, they don't just forget the railway. It also forgets the environment, they forget the districts, and they forget the economic realities. How much realism is there in the policy of the Progress Party on transport? They're proposing to cut 800 million. kr for the operation and maintenance of the railway in this budget. Fortunately, they don't get through that, because that would mean that the intercity triangle, the regional trains and the local genes would be gone. The NSB would only have money to serve capital costs. Most of the train services in Norway would have virtually disappeared. But maybe that's what the Progress Party wants? Every single day, the NSB carries 120000 passengers to and from Oslo. Let's live into the Advance Party's alternative budgets for a little bit of a second and imagine that this train offer was removed. Then these passengers would have to use a bus or a car. If we rain 1.2 passengers per. Car, which you usually do, means that with the policies of the Progress Party, there would be 100,000 more cars out and in from Oslo every single day. If each car is 4.5 m long and they drive bumper against bumper, that means 450 km extra queue in Oslo every day. It's a line as long as the Hamar-Trondheim distance, a line that's still standing. It's completely impossible to build out of it. And then I haven't even mentioned and thought about the environmental problems. They're also coming in. If these passengers were to use a bus instead of a car when the Progress Party had shut down the train, it would mean 2 500 more buses only in Oslo every single day. By comparison, today there are 5,400 buses throughout the country. We have this autumn taken over a budget that needed lifesaving in many areas. We're ready to add 460 million. kr for transportation. That's not enough, but we'll come back with more. People will be assured to note that in the field of transport policy we have been given a new course in road and rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1663	It is good that the representative of the Christian People's Party in Eastfold, Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, supports the majority of the Transport Committee, who has pointed out exactly the projects in Eastfold that she is concerned with in our comments. Among other things, we have Notes that in its draft budget the Bondevik Government has proposed to make provision under the Oslo-Svinesund corridor, which involves a redistribution of investment funds from Eastfold to Akershus, and underlines the need to look at this in the revision of the Eastfold package; We have pointed out that we support Østfold County Municipality in their consultation opinion on NTP and action programme where they asked for the revision of the Eastfold Package Phase 1. The last thing she mentioned was the development of E18, where we have also pointed out that it is desirable in the context of the revision that it can be added to the most continuous development of E18. She also mentioned further expansion and double tracks through Eastfold, where we have said in the comitology that we support Eastfold County Municipality's opinion that the order of priority in Eastfold should be northwards and southwards, i.e. the Mosse tunnel before Haug-Onsøy. So the projects that Holten Hemdal was concerned with should now be given priority, so the government fraction has made sure to get into the budget notes. It must be a cross of thought for the representative Holten Hemdal of the Christian People's Party, a party that has been in government until the autumn, that we have provided for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1675	I was in the pulpit earlier today and I was talking about gas ferries. I felt that I made it very conciliatory, had a good invitation to the Government, took all the government parties and thought that we had to work together to get it done. Now I am painfully aware that the Government does not need the Left's voice to get something through. But it might be nice to have some support, too. So I'm a little surprised when Magnhild Melting Party Kleppa walks on the speaker's chair and takes the left for gas ferries in the way she does. I just want to show that we have also seen in practical policy that this is something that the Left has worked for and got through. By pressure on the Directorate-General for the Environment on environmental requirements which are as stringent as those corresponding to gas ferries, five gas ferries have been contracted. I cannot understand that Magnhild Meltweid Kleppa has forgotten these gas ferries, which are actually contracted after the previous government's pressure. It was the first time such claims were made in connection with the contract. And this was of course something like the previous government, with the Left in the head of the chair, had the villa to pass on if we had been sitting in government. This has been terribly important for the Left, and at least in my state it has been a good case of cooperation across the parties. In particular, the Centre Party and the Left have had good cooperation when it comes to gas ferries. I hope this won't be going to hit each other all the way instead of putting even more gas ferries on the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1691	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice before and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1694	The centre party shall be the first to invite everyone to a cooperation which, in the broadest sense, will strengthen transport in that country. We are very pleased that the Left will cooperate on gas ferries, but for the sake of order, I must note that it was actually the opposition in the Storting that forced the previous government's involvement in this field. This may include: a personal letter from the parliamentary leaders to get the Government on the initiative for which Gunn Berit Girde was now doing well. The court must be right!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1699	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 642]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1715	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1731	The proposal proposes that the Storting should take a decision on «consent to the approval of Decision No EEA Committee». 82/2005 of 10 June 2005 on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Regulation (EC) No 82/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council 881/2004 establishing a European Railway Agency [[EF]] [[ERA]] The purpose of the establishment of ERA is to ensure that the Commission and the Member States have at their disposal the necessary expertise and support in the field of railway engineering and safety. The establishment of the Agency will enable the objectives of safety and interoperability of the European rail network to be assessed jointly and with a high level of expertise, thereby contributing to the revitalisation of the rail sector. The ERA may make recommendations and deliver opinions to the Commission and assist with technical support in the field of safety and interoperability, but no legislative power shall be conferred on it. Participation in ERA will provide Norway with a new area of influence in international railway safety work and access to increased information and experience from other European countries on railway safety and interconnection. The fact that Norwegian experts can also be employed in ERA is expected to have a positive impact on the Norwegian railway environment. Norway’s contribution amounts to approximately EUR 273 000 or approximately EUR 2.3 million. kr, annually adjusted to the share of the EFTA budget and the current exchange rate. The Committee would highlight the objective of establishing a European Railway Agency. As I said, the creation of ERA and its participation will allow Norwegian railway interests to participate in a larger railway professional environment and influence the further development of common international legislation. It could also contribute to the necessary revitalisation of the rail sector in Norway and Europe, inter alia. increased interoperability and the achievement of key objectives of national transport policy. The Committee points out that the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs recommends that Norway approves the decision of the EEA Committee No. 88/2005 of 10 June 2005. I have no other comments, refer to the proposition and concern the Storting to make such a decision: ‘The decision consents to the approval of Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No. 82/2005 of 10 June 2005 on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Regulation (EC) No 82/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council 881/2004 establishing a European Railway Agency [[EF]] [[ERA]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1755	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1763	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1771	During the debate, Odelstinget’s Vice-President, Olav Gunnar Ballo, put forward a proposal. The Presidency had cancelled: With effect from 1 October 2005, the salary of the members of the Supreme Court shall be as follows: Supreme Court Justice, NOK 1071 000 per. åHøsterrechtsrekr 976,000 per year. years
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1793	Alternatively, between the setting and a proposal by Olav Gunnar Ballo. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1829	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2 and 3, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 4-16, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 1–15 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 16 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5–16, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. Four, the president's coming back.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1929	President! I voted incorrectly, I voted in favour, but I should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1936	Then 81 voted against the proposals and 25 voted in favour. The proposals have thus been rejected. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the implementation of several OPS projects’.» The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced support for this proposal, and the President assumes that it also applies to the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1955	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e1979	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e5260	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-07.ana.ud1536e5399	There is no record.
