ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e47	The representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Kjetil Bjørklund and Per Ove Wideth, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e62	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and for the remaining meetings of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today and for the remaining meetings of the current week. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e85	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen County Council Election City of Reply Haugland State Council Laila Davay The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e104	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. As you know, the French referendum on a new EU constitution was a very clear no, and it is expected that the election results will be the same when the Netherlands is now going to vote. This is not, of course, any country in the EU context. We are talking here about those who have made up the very core of EU cooperation. Commenting on this result, Jan Petersen's Prime Minister said: ‘I think a serious debate on Norwegian membership of the EU will now be pushed out somewhat in time. It will take some time for us to see what kind of Europe stands out. No one will now feel any urgency in inviting the people to take their stand with an organisation of which there is such an unclear picture." Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with this, and does that not mean that the Court's plan for a new application in 2007 is completely unrealistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e116	I agree that two heavy and important countries, such as France and the Netherlands, of course, mean a great deal in this context. I say that, because I think we should also remind ourselves that important EU countries such as Spain and Germany have ratified the very constitution, so that the picture is mixed. When it comes to the question that Kristin Halvorsen has asked me: it is probably a sign that you are getting old, when you quote yourself, but I have stated that one of the prerequisites that the matter might come up again in Norway is that the EU has put the constitutional question behind it, and I can repeat that on a case-by-case basis. So the question is when in that case it will happen. Of course, the issues facing the EU now need to be addressed quite immediately. So I don't think it's easier to guess at the time now than before, but I don't think you're going to have an unsolved problem here for a long time. This must be done by the EU now, quite immediately. I think it will also be seen that the Treaty itself includes, among other things. a good number of issues that have already been resolved in the EU and on which as such there are no changes. Only through court rulings and in other ways has there been in many ways a codification of the practices already applied. I think it's easier to be clear on what timetables it might be, when the dust now settles down, but I think you probably have to be prepared for the dust to lie down for not too long. One would then sort out that part of the premises was completely relevant to the constitution. Some of the premises in the voting sessions may not have been as relevant as the constitution. So to the question of the time for when this comes up again: it's not so good to say when it can be, but, as I said, I don't think you should expect that this will necessarily be pushed very far in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e127	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer, and I am well aware that it is not exactly a Minister for Foreign Affairs from the Right who is taking the urge to take the big debate on any new Norwegian membership of the EU, at least not today. What is very exciting and enjoyable for SV when we have followed the French debate on the referendum is that very many of the arguments raised by French voters have been left-hand arguments against Norwegian EU membership in Norway, although the debate has been different in France. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it not a very serious cross-section of thought for the yes side that the close integration to which the Constitution refers has so little popular grounding as it seems to have in France, because in France the turnout has been high, much higher than for example. in Spain and Germany, and this is a question to which there is real commitment? Isn't it true that for a hacked-up yes-trailer, this is a serious cross of thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e136	With the Sem declaration behind me, as Foreign Minister, I can at no time spray for an EU debate, but as former Right-leader, I can do it, and I will do it now. I absolutely believe that part of the arguments put forward in France will be important to meet in the debate. I would like to show that it does not hold for the future of Europe. I share the perceptions that, among other things, My predecessor, Thorbjørn Jagland, said in the evening post today, that here it's really a job to do from our side too. The former party leader would be prepared to do this right away, and I think maybe the months that are coming, will also show it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e143	There will be four follow-up questions – first Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e146	Right-wing Vice President and Government Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss said that one reason why there was no in France was that there were racists and communists who had voted against. So that's why it turned out no. I think this was a pretty rude statement, and very inappropriate for a Norwegian government council. It would have been interesting to get the foreign minister's view on this. Does he really think that there were racist and communist arguments that made it turn out no in France, and that this had anything to do with the massive no-majority? As a follow-up to this, I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to assess whether it is not appropriate to apologize. I believe that the French people who have voted no will feel quite bored with this explanation from a Norwegian minister. Would it not have been right for a Norwegian government at the Foreign Minister here in Stortinget today to apologize, of course this is not the government behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e153	There were very many premises for the votes that were taken; the premises, as I mentioned in the answer to Kristin Halvorsen, were both relevant and perhaps not as relevant as the actual question that was asked to the French people. That means there were many premises far beyond those mentioned here, which were also the basis of that referendum. But not all of them have been quite relevant, to say it carefully. When someone clearly believes that one can vote away from the challenge of globalisation, there is reason for a renewed debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e158	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e162	What should worry everyone, regardless of the EU position, is the enormous distance between what the elite believes in different countries, for example. in the Parliament of France, where there is an overwhelming majority of the EU Constitution, in the Parliament of the Netherlands, where there was an overwhelming majority of the Constitution, in the Parliament of Sweden, where there was a large majority for the euro, and the people who have said no in all these three countries. It is a democratic dilemma, and it creates a lack of legitimacy for the structures being built. I think one of the reasons is that you keep saying that evolution is going in a different direction than what it actually is. You're not for a constitution, you're not for a euro, you're not for overnationality, and then it comes later. In the big debate on EU membership in September 1994, the then Right-leader Kaci Kullmann Five said a twinkling clear no from the Right to a notion of an EU constitution. What has led the Right to change its mind from the glistening clear point of view to an EU constitution in 1994?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e169	It was not the Minister for Foreign Affairs who was then interpolated. It was obvious to the former party leader who was interpolated. I'm not quite sure if I got hold of Giske's points. However, when the EU itself has chosen to call it a constitution, its content is crucial. The institution codifies to a large extent rules already in place. In my view, it would be important in many areas, because it would open up, democratize and streamline the decision-making processes of 25 Member States, and consequently it could also serve Europe better than the basis to which we now have to go, namely the Treaty of Nice and the other legislation. It is possible that Giske is more concerned with form than with content, but then I think he is bomming on the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e176	Storting doesn't know the party leader. Only the Minister of Foreign Affairs knows that. Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e181	According to NTB, the Foreign Minister says he is disappointed with the results in France. Our finance minister has used strong words to characterize those who promoted the no-majority in France. Two prominent representatives of the Norwegian Government have therefore clearly expressed their wish for a different outcome. Can the Foreign Minister confirm that the outcome in France does not change anything for Norway at all, that our concern and our relationship with the EU remain the same with a yes or no in France, and similarly with a no result in the Netherlands today, that our situation is and remains unchanged?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e188	When I said that I was disappointed, it was precisely because of the premise I gave at the end of my answer to Giske, that I think the constitution would make it easier for the EU to function, and you could get a decision-making process that is equal to having 25 member countries. But it is also true, as Mr Høglund says, and as I have said a number of times, that Norway's situation today is based on a contractual basis that is just linked to the existing Treaty basis in the EU, which must then be what the EU is now falling back to until a new process might be initiated. It is not the case that the EU is now entering a legal area or that it has voted against the EU as such. You've voted against this way of expressing it in purely formal terms. However, the debate in Norway concerns what implications this will have for any Norwegian change in the relationship with the EU, i.e. the EU membership itself, and I refer to the answer I gave to Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e193	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e196	The French no was a popular protest against elite rule, lack of democracy and increased supranationality in the EU. It was a knowledge-based no that the French gave. I believe the Minister for Foreign Affairs is right when he says that the EU can hardly live with an unresolved situation related to the Constitution. The experience we have is that the European Union has an adventurous capacity to get around people's protests. You don't care very much about it, and the project is falling further in the same direction as it was planned before the people protested. We saw this in connection with Maastricht and Denmark, in connection with Nice and Ireland. My question is whether the Foreign Minister at all believes that the French no will have any impact on the development of the EU. Then I note that the Foreign Minister did not answer the question from Øystein Djupedal. Perhaps it should be in place with an apology to the French people for the Minister of Finance's statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e203	To the last question, I don't think so. I have given an answer to that question. I find it interesting that Åslaug Haga now uses the term 'protest' about what is the French people's decision in the matter. I do not think that is an assessment that should be correct. I think one should respect the decision without stamping it as a protest. It should be seen more constructively than a protest, at my discretion. I also think you should be a little careful about using the term 'public'. You have to remember that it was 54.9 pst. who voted against. After all, it was 46.1 pst. who voted in favour. That means that the French people on this question have been split and split. The fact that the EU now has to sit down and think through what is being done is quite clear. On the other hand, I would warn you not to think that you are now going into some sort of empty room. You fall back on the treaties that are, and that means you get to live with the slightly more complicated decision-making processes that you had in advance. [[President clubs]] But that the issue of frustration over globalisation and France's economic development is relevant in this context, I have to say that I would like to question it. [[The President Clubs Again]] There are clearly things that should lie on the side of it all, and that will weaken the power of statement. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e212	In this oral question procedure, you have to stay on time, so we remember each other about it. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e217	From one Union to another and a much smaller one, namely the Union we had with Sweden. I have a question for the Minister of Culture. This concerns the celebration of the 1905 anniversary, or the marking, to use the Minister of Culture terminology. It turns out that the 2005 marker has gone down on a downturn. In the revision, an extra cost of 27 million is presented. kr to get the 1905 party in the harbour. According to the media, the extra cost might be up to 40 million. kr. The newly appointed manager, Dag Tierdal, says that he is shocked by the lack of economic governance in the company. There has been a lack of awareness about what you manage, says Tierdal after a week of work. My question to the Minister of Culture is: how could one end up in such a disaster, where there is a complete lack of control over such a transparent project as a celebration of a 100th anniversary of Norway's independence?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e226	Only to include it and the Minister of Culture's statement: Trond Giske has been included in the Culture Committee for comments where the word'marking' has been used, and I have not registered that the Workers' Party has taken a distance from it. So both the Government and the Storing are together to mark the Union's resolution. For my part, I always like to stress that this should be a party anyway, even if it says in the paper that there is a selection. It really seems to me to be a trifle. What has happened, as the representative also says, is quite unlikely. To put it this way: the ministry was not made aware of this until just before Easter, at the end of March. We had a general meeting in good time before that, without any notice being given to us in the area. So we were as surprised as everyone else. That's about. Twenty-seven million. we have entered into the revised version. If there's more, I don't know yet. The new leadership, the new board and the new director are going through the whole thing, and they're going to come back to us as soon as they can, with an overview. Then we'll get back to Stortinget with the information we're sitting on. This is very sad, and there are actually several people asking the same question that the representative Giske has asked me: how could this happen with regard to such a transparent project as such a celebration? I hope that we will get more answers when the new director and the director have gone through the entire work of the company, and that we can provide satisfactory answers to the Stortinget. I can't give them today, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e236	It is probably true that the Storting uses the same jargon. Here we are to have a memorial, not an anniversary meeting, on 7 June, probably in memory of the Union that fell away. My question concerns the profile of the June 7 marking. On the website of the Hundred Year Marking, in the press releases, we can read about surveys carried out by the Hundred Year Marking, which refer to homosecosis in Rogaland and in Agder, and show that the Nordics are ‘self-righteous, selfish, negative, nationalistic, introverted and prejudiced’. My question is: does the Minister of Culture think that there is a proper use of money in a celebration of Norway's 100th birthday, which it really is, to run that kind of thing, or should we use this opportunity to market Norwegian culture, Norwegian traditions and Norwegian business in a positive way out in the big world, as is often done when you have 100th anniversary marks and anniversarys?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e245	Yeah, and that's what we do. The quotes that the representative comes with are not quotes that the 100-year-old company is behind, but there are recordings from others, which seem to be doing something wrong and have prioritised something wrong in relation to what the 100-year-old company has given money for. They are in their full right to support the projects to participate and celebrate and mark the Union's resolution. There's going to be a lot going on all around the country. We've already had a marking in the Drama, where almost all the dramatizers were standing up and at the celebration. There was a performance in the Dramamens Theatre, which was also shown on television. There should be a selection in Stortinget, there should be concerts, there should be different events in the big cities, and in many municipalities there should be different events. So when the year is over, I hope that all of us feel that we have really got this Union resolution, that Norway was a free country. And I don't hope that the negative attitude that I feel the representative is showing you all the time, is going to be part of the celebration that we're now going to meet. I hope that we'll have fun, and I also hope that those who want to join the celebration throughout the country will be able to do so in many of the different events that are going to be around.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e252	There will be three follow-up questions – first Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e255	There may be good reason to believe that the main reason for the large budget gap is a lack of sponsors. Large Norwegian companies were not interested in supporting Norway's 100th anniversary and would not be connected to the scheme planned by the Hundred Year marker. Statoil says correctly that one of the reasons is the profile you have set for the anniversary. Don't you really tell me that one of you chose a line that is too negative? Doesn't the Minister of Culture think that the celebration of Norway's hundred-year independence should be so positive that big Norwegian sponsors found it worth binding their name to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e262	Now we've got some sponsorship revenue, but not all that we hoped would sponsor the scheme, have done so. But when that's said, I'm going to say that I really think that one is a little bit of an after-clock when one comes up with these comments right now. The Ministry has presented in its budget proposal what is to be the profile of the celebration. The Storting and the Cultural Committee have had the full right to go in and say that this is not good enough, we have to do better. There was no beep when this was processed in the Size layer. Now not the representative of the Culture Committee, but I was hoping that they from the Workers' Party as they were in the Culture Committee did the lesson when it was up for handling. Because then they could be involved and influence, and we could signal the Hundred Years Company that this is not good enough. They didn't do that job, but one comes with a play now that we're right in front of the celebration and everything's planned. It's too late, I'm sorry, but when one wasn't awake when this was sent to Stortinget, and nothing was said when the profile – not the details, we don't put into it – was created, it's too late to complain when the party is in full swing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e269	Ulf Erik Knudsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e272	It is – to address the last thing that the Council of State says – that Stortinget rarely goes down to the level of detail of the individual celebration projects. We have to deal with the total, and with the profile that has come out here, it might seem that it's a little bad that we're proud that we're Norwegian. If we look at what has come up, it's like we're going to apologize as a nation. Maybe that's why we haven't gotten speed on our celebration? I have to ask what is so wrong with focusing our independence, our flag, our resistance struggle during the war, our sports performance, our culture and our business life. My question to the Council of State is: Can she guarantee the Grand Council that she will now ensure that you change the style of the celebration – that's a lot of time otherwise we can spend on self-criticism, self-plating and pagerying – and that we now, in the last half of the celebration this year, celebrate ourselves as a nation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e279	I think this is a strange discussion. As I also said in my previous answer: we didn't let the Storting go into the details, we don't even do that in the department, but we made it clear that the Storting could have a meaning in relation to the overarching goals, what should go on a profile and how to mark or celebrate this. That job did neither the representative nor anyone on the cultural committee when we invited to it, but it's coming now. I think a lot of what's going to happen around is a good example. I don't have an overview of everything that's going to happen, and I don't think the representatives or anyone else has, because there's so much detail about this all around the country, about concerts and markings, about showing what we've been getting into sports, and we have an international program that the Foreign Minister could probably say more about – we'll also mark Norway internationally. So what you're asking for is going to happen, and then I hope not that one of the Big Ones is going to be the ones who put a bad touch on this, but that one rather helps back up what happens when it comes to the 100th anniversary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e284	Magnar Lund Bergo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e287	I record that the Council of State is now shifting responsibility to the committee in Stortinget, as I understood it. We have had some meetings and received some briefings, but does the Council of State believe that she is free of responsibility here and has not participated in putting the premises in the matter we have been given to Stortinget? That's 27 million. $40 million. kr – or is there any more rattling in the closet? In the cultural policy context, this is a huge sum. Does the Council of State have its own 1905 fund, as they have evidently had in-house in the 1905 company? Will the money to be collected here, because they must be covered in that we are responsible, be taken from budgets that are really earmarked for other things, so that it affects other parts of Norwegian cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e294	I'm not pushing responsibility over to the committee, but I'm thinking that I invited the committee to participate in making recordings if you wanted to. There was something the committee didn't want. They said they were happy with what I presented in the budget proposal. I have taken that further, and those signals have also gone to the 2005 company. So I'm not shifting responsibility, I'm just pointing out that I invited to a dialogue and to make comments while handling this. When it comes to the skeleton of the cabinet, I have answered a previous question that the new director and the new board are now going through the entire 2005 company and will come to me with information about the situation. Then I'll come back to the Storting. We have just opened approx. Twenty-seven million. extra kr to the 100th year company. Many legally binding agreements were concluded, so there had been more effort to get into the law and messages than to pay this out. No other cultural policy initiatives have been affected, and it is not the Government's intention that this should go against other cultural policy initiatives. It's the Minister of Finance who turns up these heads, there's no pot of my own in my budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e302	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e305	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. On Sunday, May 29, 2005, Dagbladet had a story about an epileptic mother who was supervised by child protection for 19 days – 19 days! The child-responsive staff went on a shift at home for 19 days, just to monitor what the family was doing. Not even heavy criminals are monitored in the same way. So stressful for the family this was that mother became very ill and actually hovered between life and death because of the stress that the public child protection imposed on her. This is not a history from the 1950s, this is a history from 2005. The police are also very critical that child protection fails to report cases where there is a manifest lack of care. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State realize that it is time for a critical review of the functions of child protection, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that child protection safeguards the children and not their own performance and the municipality's finances?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e314	I think there were many of us who read about this matter, which became very concerned. This case dates from 2002, not from 2005, as the representative says. It is difficult for a government council to address a single case, but we have, of course, examined some of the background, and know that both the county and the municipality have implemented a number of actions after 2002. Then the Stortinget has also adopted a major child protection reform, which we are now in. We cannot generalise child protection based on a single case that happened a few years ago. But what I can say after I have read the County Council report is that a 24-hour supervision in a home, against parents' will, is illegal, unless you have a county decision, or you have agreed with your parents on this. Based on what's been in the paper, it doesn't seem to be the case. The county lifted this decision as illegal, as we have been informed. This municipality is a small municipality. They've had a lot of heavy child-restraint stuff. They've reorganized child protection in retrospect. Both professionals, trade unions and others have been involved in this municipality, for there has been some criticism of child protection in the past. BUF-etat is also heavy inside. They are running a big project, with two surrounding municipalities, Kristiansund and Frei, where action teams are to be set up, and they are to work on getting in earlier. This is a prevention project, and a number of measures are being taken. I want to say that the situation in child protection has changed considerably in relation to the way it was three years ago, with which the representative is also familiar. There's a lot going on, and there's an incredibly high level of professional competence among child protection employees today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e325	I thank you for your answer. It is true that this case dates from 2002. But on Wednesday 1 June, in the evening post, it is also written that child protection workers say that they use notional professional reasons to resolve concerns about children in distress. But the real reason is the tight economy. I also receive daily enquiries from both children and parents who feel exposed to public abuse of power through child protection. For this reason, my next question is to the Council of State: When does the Council of State intend to assess whether an independent body can be set up to monitor the work of child protection on an ongoing basis, which is now being argued by professionals, for example. a free and independent child-restraint, which the Workers' Party has also now said to consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e334	It's also a very big and important question that the representative here raises. There is no doubt that we have a good child protection law in this country. If a child, a youth, is found to need a measure in the protection of children in municipalities, that action should be taken. So you can't say that you don't have the means to do this. This is worrying. There is a hearing in Oslo today on these matters, on which the county council agrees and on which we are getting feedback. Having said that, I would like to remind you that we have independent supervision in relation to the municipal child protection service, and that is the county councillor. With regard to this supervision, a number of measures and improvements have been taken in the last two years, from 2002, I can say. They exercise supervision, they can go into and do so in individual cases, they go into complaints. All requests to the county council in individual cases are dealt with by the county council. There is no time to mention all the other good measures. But maybe more people will ask about this, and then I can come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e343	There will be four follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e346	The council says we can't evaluate child protection from a single point of view. The problem is that this is not an isolated matter. We've kept things away, and we've had things up over time, in terms of child protection and the follow-up that's going on there. My question is more about the health of this matter. Health professionals have stated that this matter has possibly, or most likely, caused this woman, who has epilepsy, even greater health problems – I was about to say escalate her problems – precisely as a result of the surveillance she was exposed to in her own home. I have to ask that the Council of State here clearly says that yes, this has been an infringement against the family, and yes, it is natural that when you expose a family to this type of abuse, you also have to be held responsible in retrospect for the abuses you are committing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e353	I would like to say once again that there is a lot of good work being done in the field of child protection. Most people who make contact with child protection today are parents. Most people say they're very satisfied. And I want to say, once again, we can't generalize by individual things that come in the media. There are 30,000 child protection messages coming every year. We had 30 000 children on different types of measures by the turn of the year. And of course, in some cases you should have done things differently. It's hard for me to go into a single thing that I don't know the full width of. We know it from Dagbladet. What I have done is to have contact with the county council. It is clear that in this case the county has said that if the parents disagree with this measure – as the newspapers seem to be – it will not be right, it is illegal to initiate this type of action. This is a case from 2002, in which it is settled, as I understand it. But we might come back to this later – on a two-man basis – if the representative wants to know more.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e362	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e365	Of course, child protection – like everyone else – can make mistakes. They have very strong instruments at their disposal. It is therefore important that decisions are properly monitored and reviewed. This is going to be all right for the Council of State. On the other hand, I am concerned that the attacks on child protection in a way make it more difficult for many children who are in a difficult situation. If you later talk to children who have been helped by child protection, they say, "Why didn't you intervene before?" Victims of sexual assault, violence, domestic harassment – with psychological distress as a result – wanted help in the past. We see that the amount of child protection issues and concerns messages is growing. This suggests that there are several problems, particularly drug-related abuse. There is almost no job that is as important as ensuring that all these children who grow up under unsafe conditions can get the hand bill that society can give them — even if it makes mistakes in individual matters. So my question is, can the Council guarantee that child protection around Norway will have the resources needed to meet the increasing number of issues we are now experiencing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e374	I very much agree with the representative that it is important that child protection comes in as early as possible. One of the four pillars of the new child protection system following the reorganisation in 2004 is that child protection should be introduced earlier. I have good contact with former orphanage and child-rescue children. They say exactly what the representative said: why didn't you go in earlier? Child protection should work much more preventively. They do that today. A part of the child protection reform – the one we are now in – involves a wide range of competences linked, for example, to: the violence project relating to vulnerable children and to sexual assaults and other physical abuses against children. From this year on, we have started a comprehensive training course, and this will be continued next year. It's incredibly important that children not be hit. In the case of resources, municipal child protection is the responsibility of municipalities. They use more and more resources to do this – looking at more and more people – when viewed from an overall perspective. Children shall have help. The Children's Protection Act is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e384	May Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e387	It is not right, as the Council of State says, that we are taking more measures than before. In fact, the threshold for action in the field of child protection is higher than in the past. According to the reports, we are taking fewer measures than before, as a percentage. Over to another matter, which relates to competence. This committee has been involved several times in relation to children and young people who have been sexually assaulted. There were big headlines in the newspaper yesterday, where it said: ‘Children’s protection must remain silent about incest.’The child protection staff acknowledge that children have to remain silent about abuse because employees are unable to talk to the traumatised children. As early as 2001, the Committee said we should do something about this. SV has put forward a proposal on Barnas Hus in Norway — a competence centre and a new model of child interrogation for sexual abuse. I wonder if the Council of State will take this important and absolutely necessary action?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e403	I can answer yes to the last one. As the representative may be familiar with, we have recently – just a few weeks ago – come up with a strategy against sexual abuse and other physical abuse against children. There is both the empowerment of different services related to children and young people exposed to them and good research and development strategies. There are 22 completely specific measures, of which Barna's House is one.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e408	Eli Sollied Practices – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e411	In the evening post for today, the headline is: ‘The protection of the child conceals care failure in Oslo.’ It goes on to say: ‘The real reason is tight budgets.’ But according to newspapers, this is hidden by fictional reports. Oslo, the largest municipality in the country, is the municipality that disposes of most things, over 30 pst. If this is true, it's alarming. And then it is a great paradox that the municipal minister argues for larger municipalities – for municipal convergence – precisely in view of increased competence, which should improve the situation of child protection. The information that has come to us shows that there are challenges in child protection, regardless of the size of the municipalities. My question is: does the Minister for Children and Family Affairs think that larger municipalities will automatically strengthen child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e430	This is a big and difficult question. I think it must be the competence of child protection that is crucial for doing a good or a bad job there. When it comes to Oslo, we're actually very worried. It's true that there's been a large number of provisions. Therefore, on behalf of the Ministry, the county has had a meeting of the City Council in Oslo about this. There's a hearing on the Oslo City Council today that's about child protection. The county is here, and we'll get feedback. At the same time, Oslo is itself responsible for child protection, both for the first-line service and for the second-line service. It is organised in a slightly different way than the child protection in the rest of our country, where the state has one responsibility and the municipality the rest. In connection with this, the Stortinget has previously been concerned that we should keep an eye on what is happening in Oslo, and we have already started an evaluation of child protection there. There shall be a meeting already on 26 August of the year in which the contractor, who is now evaluating the protection of children in Oslo, shall give preliminary feedback to the Ministry of Development. But as I said, Oslo is in a slightly different situation than the rest of the country. We're worried, too, and we're coming along.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e441	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e444	I have a question for the Council of Churches. In our country yesterday, the headline was «Valgerd disappoints the Church». The background is a strong criticism from church leaders that the government does not follow up the church economy. So the Council of State answers: "They would like to criticize us, but no government has done more for the church." But the criticism is quite unison. Church meetings and other Church bodies and representatives from the Joint Council and others are clear: the maintenance problem for the country's church building is accelerating. The grant for church activities in the municipalities has been reduced. The adopted proste reform, which is very important for the personnel policy of the Church, cannot be realised because it has not been followed up in the budgets. The same applies to the escalation plan for church personnel. Does the Minister of the Church understand this criticism?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e458	To answer the question, I will go back a little in time. In relation to these four years, I still believe that there is no government that has done more for the Church in all the areas that the representative mentions than what this government has done. I want to remind the representative that when I put forward the first budget, where we actually added some settings within the Norwegian Church, went the Center Party and the plural, and they cut in the same transfers. So I'm really glad that we've now got an engagement from all of the parties, and especially the party in the opposition, so that we have to focus more on the church economy. And then I want to highlight what we've done. First of all, we have made it possible for municipalities to get good loans, so that they can take care of their own churches, as we did a few years ago for the municipalities when the school buildings were in decline. This is a new system that has just become public. I hope that this will lead the municipalities to borrow so that they can repair their church buildings. We have said through the cultural memory message that the state must have a greater responsibility for the most protective churches. We've doubled the Cultural Memory Fund. It might have to be added in the years to come, so that the government can also take a greater responsibility. In addition, we have introduced a trust training reform, supported by Stortinget, and we have received funds there. We have also started the proste reform, and have added some resources there, but they need more – that is quite right what the representative says. When it comes to the state support that has gone to the churches around, it has been about the same in these years. We haven't increased it. But we've allowed a slightly larger pot to centralize, because we want to create a program so that one in the next round can get cheaper heating around the churches. And all of a sudden, I think from the government's side, we have increased the permissions. But we see that the municipalities do not have the responsibility they have in relation to church maintenance, and not everyone is as good at supporting the work that Church operates.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e473	As regards the loan arrangement for the Church, it was actually the Central Party that presented it, and it was the Progress Party in the budgetary agreement with the government parties that actually managed to push it through. I feel that one is very restrained. I fully agree that the biggest challenge lies with the municipalities in relation to caring for church buildings. With the enormous aftermath that is there, I think the Government is totally lacking in grips to do something about it. In the case of church positions, there has been a tradition in the past that they have come to the state budgets. It has not actually happened during this four-year period, except for the positions mentioned by the Council of State. As far as proste reform is concerned, it actually requires 50 new posts if one is really to make it work as the intention of this plan is. So when the Church's people are wandering around, this is about them feeling that it's not being followed up with what's in the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e484	Has the representative completely forgotten all the performances that came in the first years of this period? I don't think the number, but I think that almost 70 performances were introduced to the Norwegian Church in the first two years. That's what I thought we should take into account in the big account. It was in the last year of the Labour Party and in the first year for us that we gave Church quite a lot – I shouldn't say exactly how many, but it was a significant number – new performances. We can look up how many there were. When it's about the proste reform, it's quite right that we've started at it, but we're not in the goal. So that's where we have to fill in the years that are coming, so that she can have the impact that we want. When it comes to the loan arrangements, there was something that the Government came up with with the Progress Party in the budget agreement, which was not pushed through. I was very happy about that. At least it wasn't hard to convince me that we should go for this, as one of the agreements we entered into with the Progress Party. I hope that the municipalities will benefit from this scheme. [[The President clubs.]] It is not that if one has been given responsibility for an area, and does not take that responsibility seriously, another has to assume both the bill and the responsibility. [[The President clubs.]] That's not how politics work. There is also no such policy that should work. But we're going to help the municipalities take their responsibilities, and we've done that through the loan arrangement that we had with the Progress Party to put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e496	The President would like to recall in all modesty that there is a check of little bells on the intercoms. There will be three follow-up questions – first Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e501	I understand that the Council of State is very pleased with the situation in the Church and the economy there. So there are no people out there. On the contrary, they are very dissatisfied. I want to have another angle of incidence for this. The Church itself has a fund that is quite difficult. Church own property and have money in the bank, at least in funds from which they get dividends, and which they could spend a little more of. The government has been negative enough for the Church to do so. Will the Council of State consider it again? Maybe you could sell some possessions and write off some debt on other things, maybe you could use more of the running income on the Information Society's fund? Then I'd like to ask the Council of State about her, because the new municipal proposition is in Stortinget, where the government suggests frameworks that at least don't cheer around the country, believe that the municipalities will be able to give more money to the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e510	No, I'm probably not happy with that. I see the need, but I point out that we're on the way, we're on the right road. I hope that for the years to come, we will be able to make the churches even better able to do the job that we want them to do. I'm glad that all the party now is busy with it, because then we can get multiples for what we're proposing, instead of wearing down the headwinds, as we've done before when it applies to this field. When it concerns OVF, the representative said we don't want to use the fund. It's just nonsense. We use the surplus of the fund every year. The fund has statutory duties, and one of the tasks is to take care of the priestly dwellings that are around the country. We are responsible for the duty of priests, and we are responsible for these vicarages and pastors. The fund is responsible for a lot of them – not all of them; the municipalities are responsible for some of them – and the fund's funds are used to keep them in check. We need to work to avoid losing the fund for funds so that even the pastors start to fall due. We have enough to wear when it comes to taking care of the churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e517	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e520	I record that the Council of State is largely satisfied with the situation with regard to the Norwegian Church, and we have had a count of the number of new performances. I won't go into that debate. What surprised me a little bit, and I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit, is that we had suggested a separate message about the Church's economy, which the Storting has asked for. We had expected that we would get this message, so that we could discuss everything from church building to performances etc. We haven't got that. We also know that the Church Council and those representing the Norwegian Church are disappointed and think this is too bad. In one area, state councils have had the opportunity to receive support from the Stortinget, and there are old churches — taking care of the medieval churches, especially with regard to the distribution of responsibilities between the state and the municipality. Governments have had the opportunity to get to Stortinget. We could have cleaned up this relationship. The state could have taken responsibility for these church buildings, so that one could have properly maintained them. Why hasn't the Council of State used that chance instead of blaming the municipalities? It is simply not possible to say that the municipalities are responsible for what is now happening!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e529	I had hoped that the representative could have listened to the previous answer I gave, because I actually told the representative Ausdal Starrfeld that I was not very pleased, there are more needs here. We've done a lot, but we have a lot left to do from this government in this area. But I also said that I am very pleased with the support we get in the bet in the church, because it hasn't always been like that. When it comes to the big news about the Church's economy, she comes before the Storting goes from each other, but she doesn't come in such a way that she gets handled. It was the control committee that asked for this message last year, and we need some time to create a big message, it's not done in a manual. As far as I know, it has been reported to the Storting that the message comes at the time it arrives. It could actually be a long time ago. We've been working on a tempo plan. It is produced, but unfortunately not handled. This message should not primarily record what is going on in the preservation of church buildings. When it comes to means to churches, the oldest churches, I refer to the cultural memory message, where we take action to make the state take a greater responsibility than what has been done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e536	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e539	The fall in church maintenance is about 7-8 billion kroner. The churches are due, and the Council of State owes, the tradition of faith, to the municipalities. The local authorities don't have a chance! With the local authority proposition that lies there now, for some municipalities it will mean stagnation in activity, for most people it will mean cut. And we're talking about 7-8 billion dollars in the aftermath. In the oral question procedure of 2 April 2003, i.e. more than two years ago, the Council of State promised, in its reply to the representative of Skjelaaa, that she would come up with a plan for upgrading church buildings. So she's been thinking about this for a long time, and it hasn't come. In the later answers, the Council of State has referred to the cultural memory message, but rather, it is something concrete here. I think that there were many of us who had hopes and expectations of a church council from the Christian People's Party in terms of precisely the churches and the upgrading of them. My question is, why has the Council of Churches not taken action on this matter in four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e550	The Bondevik II government has the same policy in this field as the Bondevik I government, where Åslaug Haga was one of the state councils that could be involved and influenced. We stress that the municipalities are responsible for the church buildings, and we do not intend to change that. But in the cultural memory message, we have underlined that the state assumes greater responsibility for the oldest churches, because there is a lot of resources needed to take care of them. It says that, so there we are concrete. We also refer to the Cultural Memory Fund, which we have doubled in revision. So here we have take hold. We're on our way, we're not done. Having a lag of 6-7 billion dollars — or how large it is — is something that doesn't show up overnight. This has been done by the municipalities, and this has also happened during periods when the municipalities feel they have had better advice than today. Is it true, then, that we have to pay the municipalities back by taking over the entire bill for something that they have neglected for decades? There is not a proper way to handle this issue. Now we put responsibility on the municipalities, but we help them through a good loan arrangement, and then we also take a greater responsibility for the funds to the churches. And that was more than what we did when Åslaug Haga sat in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e557	Let's move on to the next main question
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e560	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs a question. The newsprint over the last few weeks has shown us a lack of response for children and young people. I want to come back to what I mentioned in my introduction to my previous question, that it is actually that in the field of child protection, the economy is now controlling the measures, and not the needs of the children. There are reports from all over the country, both from municipal child protection and from the state. These are our most vulnerable children. They need a quality good offer. We have been criticized by the UN for violations of the Convention on the Rights of the Child because we have many measures in the field of child protection that are not good enough, especially against minor asylum seekers. I've taken this up several times in this period. I now want the Council of State to answer whether it really is so that she can take responsibility for the fact that there is an economy that governs the measures, and not the need for children who need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e572	It is true that child protection messages are increasing strongly, both in municipal and state child protection. We hope and believe that this is also due to parents contacting child protection earlier. Early contact, you get the help you need. In some cases, there will be no takeovers, perhaps not large ones either. Many today also receive help from child protection so that they can handle their own affairs. Not all messages lead to action. That being said – no, it is not the economy that is supposed to govern child protection. It's in the law that it shouldn't be. There is a need for the child’s action to be governance. The professional competence in child protection is high today, and should be so high that we cannot say that we cannot take action because we have a bad economy. The law says action should be taken. That's why we see in many municipalities today, including Oslo, that child protection has in many cases breached the limits of what you have initially invested financially. I don't know what statistics May Hansen refers to. We have had increased costs in child protection for many years. They have increased by 10 per cent from 2002 to 2003. These are the last completely defined numbers we have. So we have an increasing number of texts. There is an increasing number of measures. There is an increasing number of employees in both municipalities and countries. Time limits do not increase; the provisions do not increase. But there are a lot of big differences between the different municipalities. I'm very interested in whether there are statistics that I'm not familiar with in this area. These are official statistics, which the Ministry of Children and Family have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e583	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, although I am not quite satisfied with it. These are numbers that can be obtained from the Central Statistical Office. In fact, there have been reports in the press all over the country that we have brought up with the Council of State several times – from among others. The head of Children's Protection in Fredrikstad, and now we see playoffs in Oslo. Notices come to us in the committee when we're around traveling, that the threshold for granting child protection measures is actually higher than before, because of the economy. It is also the case that these children are entitled to action under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Last week, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs heard Norway’s latest report. There are several points of criticism. I ask the Council of State, especially in relation to minor asylum seekers: what do you want to do with the criticism that comes from the United Nations that these children are being discriminated against in relation to Norwegian children?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e592	It's very important. We're following up all the issues, all the issues and all the municipalities we're getting messages from, that here you have individual issues where you can be afraid that child protection has done wrong, not working properly enough or not having enough competence. It is followed up by the county. We can't rely on single things in the media. Child protection has 30,000 messages per year, 30,000 measures per year. Every single thing is dramatic, and of course every single thing has to be followed up. The heightening of child protection skills, I think, is very, very important. We have also introduced 26 child-restraint teams, which mean that in small municipalities – where there may be less competence or less professional environment – individuals in child-restraint should not be left alone with the difficult issues. They get help immediately. To the UN report [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e603	The regulatory time for the oral question procedure is up, so time does not allow for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e617	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e624	As rapporteur for St. pp. No 50 for 2004-2005, About the development of the E18 Bjørvika project in Oslo, I will initially show that the Stortinget has previously given its support to the project in connection with the road and road transport plan for 1998-2007 and the national transport plan for 2002-2011 and for 2006-2015. In addition, the project has been treated in St.prp. No 96 for 1987-88, in St.meld. No 28 for 2001-2002 Development of the budget of Bjørvika and the Ministry of Transport for 2005, cf. St.meld. No 1 for 2004-2005. The E18 Bjørvika project is a very comprehensive and complex project. Studies on Bjørvika have been ongoing for more than 20 years. Bjørvika and the area around Oslo S are today one of the country's most important hubs for both car and public transport. Traffic of the day on E18 and Rv. 4 is in total around 140,000 vehicles in annual traffic, making Bjørvika the most heavily loaded cross-section in Norway. The area is characterised by poor accessibility, noise, air pollution and difficult conditions for drivers, collective users, cyclists and pedestrians. Thus, the need is great for the relief of transit traffic and the establishment of a more environmentally friendly transport system in the area represented by this project. In this way, and in other respects, the project will lead to a significant uplift for Oslo city development. The total cost of the Bjørvika project is SEK 3.92 billion in 2005. This governance framework is used here, as in St.prp. No 1 for 2004–2005. This is an increase of a total of 850 million. Compared to what was laid down in the St.meld financial plan. No 28 for 2001-2002. This is a serious signal of increased costs. However, the majority of the committee joins a government contribution to the project of DKK 1.44 billion. The majority have noticed that DKK 1.86 billion will be covered by user funding, and the rest will be covered by grants from the Municipality of Oslo and the sale of properties. Finally, let me stress that the State and the drivers must take the primary responsibility for the financing of this national road conversion. At the same time, it is important for me to have said that the Bjørvika project does not have to go beyond bets on other road projects. This applies both within and outside the adopted cost frameworks. Any increase in costs beyond the cost framework is assumed to be entirely financed by state resources outside the transport planning framework, possibly by reducing the scope of development, which I believe can be a major problem. Finally, as always, the majority of the Committee attaches crucial importance to the broad local consensus on the arrangement for funding the project, as we experience in the Oslo area in this matter. And as the rapporteur, I hope that with this case we have helped to facilitate a significant improvement in this central Oslo area, for Oslo, but also for the transit traffic we have here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e639	Sometimes a road project is not just a road project. I experienced it last summer in the West when I drove the Atlantic route, a fantastic experience of both nature and architecture. Big visions must have laid the foundation for that expansion. When the Ministry of Transport puts forward proposals for the development and financing of the E18 Bjørvika project, it is a road project to solve major traffic problems. The Ministry describes the situation in Bjørvika as follows: ‘Norway’s most heavily loaded cross-section. The road system is complicated and the accessibility is at times poor for both car and bus traffic. The area is contaminated with noise and air pollution’. – a description clearly describing the need for a new road system. But the Bjørvika project is so much more than a road project. The investments in this road project are necessary to achieve a more efficient closure of the large transit traffic that we have at the centre of Oslo. But the ringing effects of the lower tunnel will be historic, not just for the inhabitants of Oslo, who will have an additional area in the form of a large, new and attractive city. It will also be a promise for Oslo as the capital and thus be of importance to the entire nation. With opera and lower tunnels that free large urban development areas, we are re-creating Bjørvika to the city's and capital's face outwards as it was when the city became. This was the medieval town, the church and the royal seat a thousand years ago. It was here in this lukewarm week that the basis for our shipping was laid. Here we also meet the historical industrial community through the railway station of the last century and Akerselva with the history of our wooden and sawmilling times. And it was here, at the very end of Bjørvika, that King Haakon, as newly elected king, landed in 1905. This whole area has been lying like a backyard, the slumber of traffic, noise and air pollution. The Bjørvika project solves the traffic, but also allows this area to be opened up for the future. Road projects are expensive and this project is no exception. But what is now polluted traffic areas, and which are now being released, as they are being developed, will yield huge returns to the owners, i.e. to the Port Authority, the State Road Service and the NSB, and the community will thus be restored as it is developed. The Bjørvika project is described as a complex transport project. It was also complicated to get a deal between the landowners. However, the development company of Bjørvika is established, and many developers have reported their interest in both food, culture and housing development. The decision to be taken today is crucial for this concrete development. The Bjørvika project has had a long and partly contentious history. It is therefore very gratifying that all parties, with the exception of the Centre Party, agree on the importance of the Bjørvika project being realised. It is also gratifying that a broad majority is now behind the proposed financing plan. The decision to be taken now makes this a great day for us Oslo representatives, but it is also a great day for all those who are happy in their capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e661	This proposal is, as the rapporteur has explained, a proposal for the development and financing of the E18 Bjørvika project. The project provides a governance framework of EUR 3 920 billion in 2005. This is an increase of 850 million. Compared to what was laid down in the St.meld financial plan. No 28 for 2001-2002. The state will contribute 1440 billion dollars. 1860 billion will be covered by user funding, and the remaining amount will be covered by grants from the Municipality of Oslo and the sale of properties. This financing arrangement is widely agreed at local level. The right accepts that the user funding of the project is covered by a continuation of the current tolling scheme from 1 January 2008 until 31 December 2012 at the latest. If there is a new road contract payment scheme – Oslopackakt 3 – within that time, it will replace the continuation of the current system. If there are to be cost increases beyond the overall cost framework, the Right assumes that it will be financed by State resources outside the transport planning framework, possibly by reducing the scope of development. It is important that this project does not go beyond bets on other road projects. This is a big and important project. Bjørvika is the country's most heavily burdened crossroads. Both the urban development of the area and the construction of new operas make this conversion of the road system absolutely necessary. We therefore agree that the toll company will be allowed to collect tolls for the partial financing of the deployment of the E18 Bjørvika project and other measures in accordance with the terms of St.prp. No 50 for 2004-2005 and Innst. S. No 200 for 2004-2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e676	The Progress Party welcomes the Bjørvika project and wishes to implement it as soon as possible. But we must remember that the Progress Party in the decision-making process presented proposals for alternative providers that could have saved society billions of dollars. Unfortunately, we did not get through to these. The Progress Party believes that it is a public task to finance the construction of tribal and national roads through government budget appropriations. We're starting from the state's income from taxes, taxes and tolls from car and car use, which this year is intended to account for a total of 52.4 billion kroner, and that only 13.1 billion kroner go back to state roads. We therefore see it as natural that the state should complete the Bjørvika project with fresh financial resources over the state budget. In this context, I would like to remind you that one of the main reasons why the Bjørvika project has the dimensions and solutions it gets, with a price range of a total of SEK 3.9 billion, is primarily the location of the Norwegian Opera. This political decision considers that the Progress Party was taken by the central authorities, which would in turn imply that these costs should be covered by the State budget and not be charged to users. In this context, the Progress Party shall promote the following proposals: ‘1. The size agrees that E18 Bjørvika is being conducted as a OPS project and that the tolling company is allowed to make borrowings under this.2. The Ministry of Transport shall be empowered to conclude an agreement with the tolling company and to lay down detailed rules for the financial instrument.3. The project is financed by the State budget with a payment per year. optical-reading-based passage4. The amortisation period shall be set at 10 years from the completion.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e700	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestion that he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e703	I am pleased that there is a large majority behind the position that is underlying today, and I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter. It's been important, because you've had to put a lot of kepphester aside, not least in Oslo City Hall and here at Stortinget, in order to be able to stand together broadly on a project that's so important to the capital. We are talking about the country's most environmentally congested junctions, which are close to an area where, of course, a lot of people live, an area where – as former representatives have also been involved – has been in a backyard, and which has not belonged to the most attractive parts of the city. These areas will be seriously affected by this project. We know that the air quality situation in Oslo has been the most serious in the country. We know that 200,000 people in Oslo are plagued by harmful air pollution every year. Having the country's largest junction at the bottom of a pot, which is Oslo, makes the situation particularly difficult. But it is true, as has been said, that this road project is not just about solving traffic problems, or just about solving environmental challenges, although this has been very important grounds for the project. It is also about opening up an area for urban development that makes the capital a capital of the whole country can be proud of. If you're going to experience Bjørvika today, I think the easiest way is actually to paddle down Akerselva, under Oslo S. Then you can see the huge area that is unused. I tend to do this a couple of times in the summer. Then I also paddle out to the Main Island. The fact that you can connect the Old Town with the islands in the fjord without having to take a canoe under Oslo S to get it done, and also that you can get back the lines of sight that were at the heart of the city's establishment, is a great enrichment for the development project. The medieval town was between the end of Alnaelva and the end of Akerselva, i.e. in Bjørvika and Bispevika. That's this part of the city we're going to take back and get a new life through this expansion project. [[The President clubs.]] I'm noticing, President, that the clock was at 2:50 when I started, because the representative Nistad didn't use his five minutes. Now I don't intend to take his time too, but ask to get one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e716	It's for the President to agree on the contrary – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e719	Thanks to the president for that. Then I just want to say in the end that we are happy to have got to this today. I think it's right that this is a great day for all who are happy in their capital. Fortunately, this process has shown that a broad majority has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e726	The aim of the Central Party is to develop a good policy on trade for the whole country. This is necessary to make use of the advantages of different parts of the country. With scarce means of transport, it is important to achieve a good distribution of means of transport, both in the districts and in the central districts. In St. pp. No 50, as it has also been in previous propositions where the Bjørvika project has been mentioned, pointed out that the aim of the road project is primarily to facilitate urban development in the area. In addition, a more environmentally friendly transport system will be established in the area. The project leader has noticed that the cost of this project has a rather large increase each time the project is managed by Stortinget. After the state road service has had two contracts on offer that make up approx. 40 pst. of the total project, it turns out that the cost increase in the lowest supply is 330 million. kr higher than the builder's estimate. Although the increase in costs may be related to higher material costs than expected, and there is a high risk pricing and a high level of activity in the market, there is every reason to ask the Directorate of Road for an assessment of the development of costs of the project, as the Minister of Transport, by letter to the Committee, has indicated that it will. The center part has previously been placed in a comment, in Inn. S. No 119 for 2000-2001, indicated that the Bjørvika project is to a large extent an urban development project. The centre party has therefore said that within the scarce frameworks one has for commercial purposes, one finds it difficult to use resources from the transport sector to a project that is so much urban development. There is nothing in the submitted staging proposition that changes the centre party's view in this matter. Cost developments may also lead to strengthening the perception of the Centre Party. The centre party will therefore vote against the proposal and the recommendation in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e736	Bjørvika and the area around Oslo S are today one of the country's most important hubs, as has been said here from the pulpit, in terms of both car traffic and public transport. Here the entryways meet against Oslo from the west, the south and the north. In addition, Bjørvika is a comprehensive collective hub with T-Bahn, tram, bus, railway and parts of the ferry terminal. Today’s traffic in the area is very high, and Bjørvika is accounting for Norway’s most heavily loaded crossroads. The road system is complicated, and the performance is at times poor for both car traffic and bus traffic. The conditions for cyclists and pedestrians are difficult due to noise and air pollution. E18 is currently a barrier to the port area and prevents urban development in the area. There have been investigations on Bjørvika for more than 20 years. I must say that I am therefore pleased that the majority in the Committee supports the Government's proposal and that the Stortinget will today take decisions to enable the E18 Bjørvika project to be implemented. The project will relieve the area of transit traffic and facilitate the necessary urban development in the area. The new opera will have the surroundings it deserves, and the eastern and western parts of Oslo Centre will be better bound together. The project will be realised in two stages. The first stage is the construction of the sink tunnel itself and the crossings of Sørenga and the port warehouse. Stage two consists in facilitating the area of urban development. Start-up takes place this summer, with the aim of opening the first stage to traffic in 2010. The second stage will be completed in 2012. For the seabed in the inner port of Oslo, the Bjørvika project may rightly be called an environmental project. In parts of inner Oslo soil, the seabed is contaminated with heavy metals and organic pollutants. This also applies to the seabed in Bjørvika and Bispevika, where the Bjørvika tunnel with the lower tunnel is to be established. Of course, the contaminated masses will be removed and deposited in an approved manner. The pure clay excavated will be used to cover parts of the other soil contaminated. Coverage of existing clay seabeds will result in a lid over today’s contaminants, so that they are isolated from the organisms living in and on the seabed. This work is carried out in consultation with the environmental protection authorities concerned. A governance framework for the project of 3 920 million has been established. NOK 4 510 million and a cost framework. kr. The costs are covered by State resources of 1440 million. kr, user financing of 1 860 million. SEK 320 million. kr from the Municipality of Oslo and 300 mill. kr from owners of land. I am pleased that both the municipality of Oslo and the municipality of Akershus have taken the necessary decisions to enable the project to be co-financed with user funding. In the absence of a new user funding scheme, Oslopackakt 3, by 1 January 2008, the existing toll scheme will be extended for up to five years. So the scheme means that Oslopackak 1 and Oslopackak 2 will be extended in their current form. As I have informed Stortinget about in my letter of 23 May, the Swedish Road Administration is now examining the tenders for the Sørenga Cross and the lower tunnel. These tenders amount to about 40 pst. of the governance framework, and unfortunately the opening of tenders has shown a cost increase of approximately 330 million. kr in relation to the steering framework. This increase in costs is due to an increase in material costs and generally high market activity. In the light of these two openings, I have asked the Directorate of Road to assess the cost development of the project. I will, of course, keep Stortinget informed about the further developments in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e758	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e761	15 years old he fought side by side with his half brother Olav the Holy at Stiklestad, then escaped to Constantinople, where he became a trusted general in the Imperial Life Guard. He led the campaign in Greece, Asia and Africa. He returned to Gardarike, to his friend Grand Duke Jaroslav, and married Jaroslav's daughter. Portrait of the married couple is still hanging in the cathedral in Kiev. With adventurous treasures he went back to Norway, where he became king in 1046. He was an active church politician. The Orknøjene and Hjaltland were placed under Norway during his reign. So great was his treasure that twelve men had to carry his gold. However, the greatest treasure found the king at the heart of the Viking Empire. There's Harald Hardråde Oslo. There in Bjørvika he built a church and a royal court, from which he ruled the country for 20 years. It is this Bjørvika that is released through today's decision. The traffic machine, Norway’s largest junction, has long been linked to its noisy and odorous grip on historical Oslo. The district will again be allowed to flourish. Ruinpark and museums as a link to our history will be a natural center in a vibrant, new city with cultural offerings, housing and future-oriented activity. The new district is triggering an expansion potential of over 30 billion dollars. Traffic shall henceforth belong to the underground. Car and bus need to be adapted to people, not vice versa. Oslo Right's vision of Fjordby, which opens the city to the sea side, becomes a reality through this historic decision to collapse. For public transport, cars, bicycles and pedestrians, today's traffic situation is unsustainable. E18 and Rv. 4 has annual traffic of 140 000 vehicles, and the emergence is poor in an untransparent and complex road system. In the pact with this setting, work is done locally in Akershus and Oslo with an Oslo package 3, where the Bjørvika tunnel is included. The right, Christian People's Party and the left in the two counties have recently presented a comprehensive proposal for better public transport and environmentally friendly road solutions. If we get through this environmental and transport package, it will provide a more pleasant capital with better access for anyone who is dependent on travelling in and through this central travel hub. It is without shyness that I claim that today's decision on the Bjørvika tunnel marks a new era for the part of Oslo that Harald Hardråde and King Sverre considered theirs. If we listen very carefully, today over Oslo we will hear trumpet fanfare from Aida's triumphal march about where Harald built and the opera is being built today, but I will spare the President's ear to participate in the song.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e778	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2549]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e794	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e801	For the purposes of the examination of this Document, see: 8:41 the proposal and the attitude of the majority in the Committee, a part of Oslo which currently suffers great environmental disadvantages from traffic and pollution, can in the long run have a new and good collective offer, rail-going. All the parties outside the Progress Party wish to be presented with the costs of upgrading, any consequences for the freight terminal on Alnabru and the price tag on public purchases, as well as clarifications in relation to the Gjøvik Railway, which one has decided are to be put out to competition. In Nydalen and Groruddalen, which Alnabanen goes through, there is a dense and large number of public and private expansions. Therefore, this document is No. The 8-proposal was positive. This could help to lay the groundwork for sensible land use. It could be like a link in the T-banning, which is soon completed in this part of the city. The Worker's Party supports the Railway Agency's assessments, where a lesson is that launching test operations will now have an impact on the plans they have and the work they have already planned, which should come first. In the first part of the planning period of the national transport plan, there is probably no means of ensuring the necessary security measures that need to be implemented. The experience with the political leadership from Oslo also gave us a good deal of opinion about the exploitation that needs to be put in place. Clearances of stop patterns and other planning work under the municipal regime will take time. But the Labour Party is in favour of the initiative. We would like to look at the reopening of the Alnaban with the testing of positive-eye passenger train traffic when unanswered questions have received their clear answers. For this reason, both municipal and state authorities should work in parallel so that one can start this good environmental action as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e816	The progress batch will indicate to the Railway Agency’s assessment that, for test operations to be undertaken, the offer has to be adapted to the capacity situation on adjacent tracks. The railway station indicates that it per At the present date, there are a number of unexplained aspects of the safety and capacity of freight traffic, and the Railway Agency recommends that test operations on the Alnaban should not be started, since remote control and fully-developed securing facilities are likely to lead to such investments that the measure must first be investigated in order to determine whether it is socially appropriate to include the Alnaban in the collective transport system in Oslo and Akershus. The Progress Party will also recall that the National Transport Plan 2006-2015 decided to reconstruct the Alnabru container terminal in the period 2006-2009, and for this reason testing the Alnabru passenger traffic will lead to conflicts of different kinds. The socio-economic importance of a functioning container terminal is far greater than that of a marginal route for passenger transport where there are already several alternative collective services. Freight traffic can live with the rail quality available on the Alnaban today, while a substantial and cost-intensive upgrading of railway and other technical equipment is needed to satisfy passenger transport. The Progress Party sees no need to use the resources of the Ministry and the Railway Agency to assess possible test operations on the Alnaban. We'd rather use these funds for other priority tasks in transport and rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e829	This is a common transport issue, breaking patterns of centre-oriented transport services in Oslo, and rational use of railway infrastructure – elements that are important in order to provide passengers and transport users with the best possible range of services. The assessment of passenger traffic on the Alnaban is not a new date. In several contexts and years, analyses have been carried out of the potential of the track for different types and combinations of public transport. There is no need to conceal that the place of Alnabanen in Oslo's future transport system is uncertain. Both the proposer who will, and the Progress Party, who will not, have good arguments on his side. In particular, the environmental impact will be decisive for the project's fate. The Ministry’s response during the treatment of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015 shows that the track must have a closer link with the other public transport system in order to be viable. This link is possible, but must be assessed in relation to the alternatives, prices and environmental impact. The question of trial operation of passenger transport on the Alnaban is a complex equation with many unknowns. The uncertainty concerns the movement of freight trains from Bergensbanen over Alnabanen, the relationship with the capacity of the common route on the Gjøvik track and on the main track, further assessment of the stop pattern to clarify demand, appropriate operational arrangements, timetable and safety arrangements, the capacity for turning-around and the provision of materials for the local train link, and also conflicts with freight traffic. The necessary clarifications of these questions must be in place before testing can be started. In particular, I'd like to point to two relationships. In its letter to the Ministry, the Railway Agency states that remote and fully-developed Alnaban security facilities will be proactively expensive in relation to both time and investment costs. If such a solution is requested by the Railway Authority, the Railway Agency advises against carrying out a test. Secondly, one of the most pervasive environmental measures in the transport sector during this major period is the decision in the transport plan on the conversion and modernisation of Norway’s largest freight terminal, the Alnabru terminal. The decision was later supported by the City Council in Oslo. This means that the project will provide a significant increase in the capacity of environmentally friendly freight management and the localisation of large transport enterprises. As an example, I can mention that a single company as a result of co-location with the terminal will save 12,000 trailer kilometres per. 24 hours. The provision of transport must be exceptionally well-founded before it is allowed to improve the effectiveness of this successful environmental and transport project. The impact on the capacity of the Alnabru Terminal if the bypass tracks are to be used has to be considered very carefully, including with regard to safety and regularity of trains on the Alnabra during an installation period. Other solutions may be available. An alternative is that the test operation must wait for the terminal to complete. In other words, the prerequisites and requirements that must be met before boarding the Alnaban train are not insignificant. If the requirements are met, the Right is positive to assess the test operation for passenger trains on the Alnaban. Passenger traffic on the Alnaban is also one of the projects involved in the ongoing negotiations between the Ministry and Oslo and Akershus in connection with Oslopackak 3. When Torild Skogsholm in the capacity of Minister for Transport in 2009, the Alnaban opens for passenger traffic, she has once again shown that seemingly insurmountable obstacles exist to overcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e848	Let me do a slightly different starting point. People living in the Groruddalen deserve a better collective system. People living in the Grorud Valley live in Norway’s most polluted valley. They live in an area heavily burdened by transport companies and high transit traffic. They also live in an area where it is difficult to travel across, where most of the transport makes them have to go into the center to move on. This characterises the collective system of Oslo. It's built in such a way that almost everything goes into Oslo S. But there are some exceptions. One important exception was when the truly forward-looking decision was taken to build the T-banning. The T-banning is the first major attempt to build cross-links in Oslo. There were many who were skeptical at the time, too, who thought and said that there were not enough people there and that there were not enough jobs there. Now we see what has happened: the development in Nydalen, with the transfer of BI and jobs to Nydalen and with the development of housing along the T-banning, makes the T-banning part of defining Oslo as a city. If we get a heavy transport vein that connects the Groruddalen and the Nydalen, we get bound together two areas that you actually had to travel through the Oslo center to get to. And there is already infrastructure. There is a path that connects the areas, and now it is possible to make effective use of that railway with passenger traffic on the Alnaban. We are pleased to admit that there are obstacles. It's not hard to admit it. And I agree with the premise that this should not be at the expense of the important freight transport from the Alnabru terminal. So there are six freight trains – six freight trains – in the day of the Alnaban today, and so it should be possible that there was room to drive some passenger traffic as well. I think that for people living in the Grorud valley, happiness in being the closest neighbour to the largest freight terminal in the country is not always such that it is to touch and feel. On the other hand, many people think of it as a load. The fact that infrastructure can also be used for the benefit of people in the Grorud Valley can be an important strategic idea for both the NSB and the Railway Agency, given that they will also have good access to that area in the future. It's important to the whole country. The Groruddalen has many organisations that are concerned about the environmental situation in the valley. It's because this is where we now experience the highest levels of air pollution, and that's where the need to strengthen public transport in Oslo is greatest. Therefore, there is reason to listen to them when they say that the question of getting started and trying to operate on the Alnaban is a question of willingness to take the environmental situation and people in the Groruddalen seriously. We do it because we know the challenges people in the valley are experiencing, and because we know that Oslo needs more cross-border traffic. Once the T-banging is in place, the interaction between the Alnaban and the T-banging will also lead to the release of capacity in an area that is now completely detonated, which is the situation because everything has to go through the centre. If we can do that, we've got an environmental promise, not just for the Groruddalen, but for the whole of Oslo. I would like to say that I am pleased that the rapporteur said that we should get to this as soon as possible. I am also pleased that the representative from the Right will go as far as climbing over insurmountable obstacles to get it done. As we have seen today, we have taken a step — perhaps a small step, but an important step — in the right direction for better public transport in the Groruddalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e867	The Christian People's Party supports the aims and initiatives of the proposers to open up the testing of passenger transport on the Alnaban. It shall be exciting to follow the progress of the project. The investigation work related to the establishment of passenger services on Alnabanen has already been ongoing for a long time, but a number of issues need to be clarified before the Stortinget can take a final decision as to whether it is appropriate to reopen the Alnabanen for passenger services. Like the Railway Agency, for example: has been pointed out, further investigations are necessary before the start of test operations, due to the fact that a number of unexplained conditions still exist, in particular with regard to the safety and capacity of freight traffic. In this central area, freight transport must take precedence, not least in view of the future needs for goods to be transferred from road to road. We need, among other things: an overview of future investment costs, we need to assess the need for public purchases of passenger services on trains, and we need to know how much passenger traffic is needed on this cross-border line. It is necessary to assess the market base and the stopping patterns in order to determine what demand can be expected from such an offer. It is also important that we have good plans for combining passenger traffic with road freight. Therefore, the impact on freight traffic on Bergensbanen and on the capacity of the Alnabru terminal must be investigated. Norway should become a leading country in environmentally friendly transport. Then, among other things, we must: bet on freight traffic on the different routes. The environmental benefits of rail freight over road are enormous. It is therefore essential that we put in place good plans to combine passenger and freight traffic in a good way, not least on this line on the Alnaban. It's going to be exciting to see what's coming out of the investigation, and we're looking forward to being presented to the ministry's further work. We hope and believe that today's decision represents an important step in the right direction for the Alnaban.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e882	The case spokesperson had a thorough review of the case. I join most of what the case spokesperson said, and therefore my post will be very short. For the Centre Party, it is important to assess all options that can provide transport users with new collective services. If this can be done by making better use of existing infrastructure, this is an additional gain. A possible passenger train service on Alnabana can improve collective provision and be an important environmental measure for the Groruddalen. In the department's answer to the Committee's questions, a clear indication has been given of the assessments already made and of what needs to be assessed and clarified before any passenger transport services on Alnabana can finally be decided. This includes: important to have a more thorough assessment of the safety of the track and the capacity for freight traffic. It is decisive that the carriage of goods on the track does not suffer damage in the event of a passenger transport operation. Passenger transport on Alnabana will also have an economic side that needs to be clarified before taking a final position. The centre party is therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee supports further work on distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e893	I think it is gratifying that there is such a great deal of agreement on the importance of looking primarily at transport solutions across public transport in the capital. There's a recognition many of us have come to, that these have been too bad. Therefore, the government has chosen to go in with money in relation to the T-banning in Oslo, and it has proved to be a great success. We know that people need to get around quickly, efficiently and – we want – collectively across the city. There is also the background to the fact that, for a long time, from the Ministry, we took the initiative of an investigation into the possibility of establishing passenger services on the Alnaban. Then the thought from our side has been when we have looked at traffic into the Grorud valley, and looked at what opportunities there are for traffic and especially public transport across, that it has been deficient. Then Alnabanen lies as an opportunity. As you know, an investigation has been carried out at the Railway Station to assess these issues. I take a positive view of assessing the possibilities for test drive on Alnabanen as part of this very ongoing investigation work. There are a number of issues that should be clarified before a passenger train offer can be established on the Alnaban. We therefore recommend from the Department that we wait for the results of the investigation before making decisions as to whether it is appropriate to reopen the Alnaban for passenger transport, including trial operations. The recognition that there should be something about colletive transport solutions across the city is one of the reasons why we want to move on with this matter. And then it has to be that way, I think, to the extent that you can't get fast solutions to this, you have to look at alternatives. We need good collective solutions in the capital of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e902	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e924	The day that begins the summer, perhaps, is not the best time to address problems with mild weather in the winter, and in this context the warnings of more extreme weather. Last autumn and winter we had several dramatic examples in Norway and in our neighbouring country Sweden of what more extreme weather caused by anthropogenic climate change can lead to damage and insecurity. We should therefore talk about extreme weather not only when it's on, but all year long. Firstly, we have a political responsibility to implement measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and secondly, as a country and authority, we have a responsibility to plan and prevent adverse effects on life, health, transport, telecommunications, energy networks and other property. However, the debate tends to slow down after the winter storms have gone off. That is why I have promoted this interpellation – to get a debate, not about the weather, but about how Norway should plan and prevent the infrastructure in the light of climate change. The Arctic Council has produced a comprehensive climate report that highlights the warming of Arctic strips by nearly 4 to 7 degrees over the next 100 years, with more extreme weather changes, more rainfall and, inter alia, climate change. increased racial hazard in Norway. What's different in the Arctic compared to the rest of the world is that climate change is actually happening right now, and it's happening in a magnitude that we haven't seen in man's time. The change happens two or three times faster than in the rest of the world, says Robert Corell, who has conducted the four-year study on the Arctic climate. How, then, is Norwegian transport equipped to meet such a development, where it is even assumed that we have already noticed a taste of what we get more of in the future? I think we're too short. The Road Service magazine, Vegen and we, dedicated at the end of last year's climate change great space. Here, the search light was placed on the evidence provided by climate scientists, that the Norwegian people have to put up with more extreme weather, and that this can go hard on the road network in parts of the country. It was also claimed that the State Road Service does not have enough strategy to meet this challenge. The road and we also commented in the same issue on the lack of preparedness in the lead position: ‘It is alarming that harvest storms and extreme weather conditions seem to surprise the state road system every single time it occurs. It is also alarming that the agency seems to lack a strategy to meet the new ‘normals’ that will eventually settle. Large parts of the Norwegian road network simply do not tolerate any more water now.’ The situation is "against normal" to quote Leif Adjust. Then it might be in place with new road standards that can withstand more water, wind and other stresses. At the same time, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness concludes on climate change: a more humid climate will in particular take on wetter autumn and winter climates in Western Europe. An increasing wind speed is expected, which will hit particularly hard in the West and up to Trøndelag, as well as in the Barents Sea east of Finnmark. It is recommended to launch measures to improve transparency and security, and to look at analyses of infrastructure vulnerability against the climate challenges that can be expected in the years to come. I'm not going to ram up all the events last winter, but, as I said, the West was particularly hard hit. Hurricanes were named for the first time: ‘Find’, ‘Gudrun’, ‘Harek’ and ‘None’. They got on running tapes. In the future, such storms become much more normal, alerting climate scientists. One Sunday, 62 people were in 27 cars for five to six hours confined between 30 races on the route between Skei and Lunde in Jölster. In Nord-Troms, the storm took both the power and telephone connection during the New Year's Weekend. The telephone connection in particular took a very long time to repair. The hardest hit was Sweden. The extremism in January and February in South Sweden led to enormous destruction. Ten lives were lost. Between 75 and 90 million cubic meters of forest to a value of 40 billion dollars was lost. In May, three months later, 39 000 households were still missing electricity and 13,800 subscribers were missing the telephone. Preparedness in Sweden is not the responsibility of the Norwegian authorities, but this illustrates very clearly what can happen, what we are waiting for, and what needs to be built for. It is the last time that a number of major messages have been addressed that should have captured climate change and the social consequences of more extreme weather. I think it's a little bit done. This isn't with full gravity taken up. I believe that there is neither enough money nor enough attention given to planning across the sectors. The size of the measure dealt with a year ago by the national transport plan. They warned about climate change and the prevention of infrastructure against extreme weather were to a small extent reflected in the communication. Neither the Swedish Railway Agency, the Swedish Road Administration, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency nor Avinor paid particular attention to this area in their professional positions, and in the Government's proposal this issue was almost entirely absent. SV's representatives in North Norway and the West at the beginning of this period, in Document No. 8:87 for 2002–03, put forward a proposal for a better identification of the racial hazard and measures to prevent the loss of human life. Proposals were also made during the Committee's examination for a separate report on racial hazard, societal consequences and prevention measures. The proposal was defeated – the conclusion was that it was done enough. Two major messages on vulnerability and social security have been addressed during this period. Both communications describe to a limited extent the climate and extreme weather as a major challenge to social security. Not until this year's Transport Budget, the Committee majority, the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, are quite concrete. In a majority comment, reference is made to the Arctic Council report, to the danger of more extreme weather, and the Government is asked to carry out an up-to-date assessment of the race risk along the road network and an assessment of whether priorities need to be changed. However, this issue has been very silent for a very long time, so I ask the Council of State: What measures does the Government plan to address climate change alerts and to prevent damage to life, health and infrastructure in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e971	First, I want to say that if it's quiet in some area, it doesn't necessarily mean that nothing happens. It is often that debates start in the media, and that is why I very much appreciate the fact that the interpellant has addressed this topic today. It's a very important topic. That means I hope there'll be a little bit less silence on this very topic. It is a theme that will provide both the inhabitants of this country, the authorities and us politicians with new challenges in the years to come. That shows two things first and foremost. It is that we need to intensify work at national and international level in relation to slowing down climate change. We have to take responsibility for that. The second is that we need to be prepared for the challenges we face by the fact that climate change is already there. Then it'll be so that there might be things that we can predict, and there will be things that we per. the current date cannot be predicted. It concerns the transport sector and other sectors. In the preparatory work of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015, the Meteorological Institute carried out a climate scenario by 2050 on behalf of transport modes. This showed that climate change can have an impact on preparedness, repair and prevention, inter alia. race, floods and floods. This will present different challenges for the different modes of transport. As reported in the interpellation, the State Road Service has been working to address increased risk and wear and tear on roads and bridges as a result of climate change. There is also extensive work in the other modes of transport. I can refer here to the Ministry of Transport's budget proposal for 2004-2005, chap. 1360 Transport readiness, including, inter alia: Modernisation of current contingency plans is mentioned. The preparedness structure will be adapted to today's threat profile, including climate change. The railway works have established a standby system to limit train traffic at river basins that could cause landslides and rockraces. The system is regularly used to notify rainstorms and rashes. It has also helped to avoid trains running into race. Furthermore, the Railway Agency has launched its own R & D project to develop a complete system for the management of extreme weather. At the same time, efforts are being made to make this system available so that it can be practised throughout the network. The railway works and train companies further communicate risk and liability related to extreme weather changes through the approval of wagon equipment – Network Statement, as it is called, or network statement – and ongoing punctuality and security meetings. The railway undertaking authorises the use of train equipment by train companies in relation to the risk conditions of the routes, including race risk. Furthermore, the network statement specifies the conditions of the routes. Such conditions are dealt with on a monthly basis in meetings between the Railway Agency and the train companies. It may also be mentioned that the operational and maintenance system has been improved so that the wear increase due to extreme weather conditions is effectively followed up. The management of accidents has also improved and both management system and organisation have been strengthened. In so far as trains are still running into a race, GSM-R will ensure warning so that rescue action can be started quickly. As far as the Coastal Plant is concerned, it has facilities and activities in sheltered waters and in more remote parts of the coast where there is an exceptionally high climatic impact. This is something the Coastal Plant is trying to take into account in planning and design. Expected climatic changes, as they occur in particular: ACIA climate report will have implications for the installations of the Coastal Plant through higher average air and water temperatures. In the context of infrastructure dimensioning, the Swedish Coastal Agency now calculates an expected water level increase based on recommendations from the IPCC, the International Climate Panel. In addition, expected land-lifting is reported in the area concerned, based on the estimates by the State. Estimated water level increases and wave heights are included in the Coastal Plant models to take account of changes in water depths in the navigational ladder and the effects on the waves. In the telecommunications sector, telecommunications security has been pursued with the aim of ensuring socially important installations and institutions. It is such that the total defense has access to ensure and ensure that we have robust telecommunications solutions. Post and telecommunications services shall include, inter alia: develop rules and regulations for providers of electronic communications networks. Climate change is indirectly within the context of the threat posed by postal and telecommunications surveillance, as the outcome of the security and preparedness work is to provide secure and robust networks and services in all crisis situations, including those created by possible climate change. For 2005, the Post and Telecommunications Authority has concluded an agreement with Telenor on the continuation of physical protection measures. This applies inter alia to securing vital network elements in sheltered mountain systems and additional back-up equipment. In a telecommunications market where operators other than Telenor are gradually gaining significant positions, it is not sufficient for only one operator to be required to provide services for emergency purposes. In practice, this means setting requirements covering all socially important telecommunications operators. In the case of aviation, the Aviation Act requires the approval of aerodromes for general use. This is an approval of technical and operational aspects, i.e.: the design of the aerodrome, technical equipment and organisational conditions provided by the Air Safety Authority. There are requirements for, inter alia: ground, air traffic service, meteorological service and equipment related to meteorological, air navigation and air traffic management. The operation of both Avinor airports and other airports is therefore at all times adapted to the weather conditions in order to meet these requirements. Preparedness relative to extreme weather conditions is then dimensioned in terms of e.g. flight and runway instructions. I would therefore like to say that in the transport sector we take this challenge very seriously, and that is all reason to stress the need for this. Once again, I would like to thank the interpellant for the topic being addressed today, and I hope we can follow this up in future contexts, where it should also be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1007	I thank you for the answer and for the information that was given on what is happening in the individual sectors. When I said it had been quiet, it was the coin of what comes from documents to the Storting, and not what's in the media. I guess I didn't say nothing happened either. Norway is a country that has a lot of weather, we have a lot of experience with a lot of weather, also with storms and storms, and it is important to be prepared and prepared for this at all times in all sectors. But what I'm dealing with in the interpellation is the question of how we're arming ourselves against ever more ecstatic and ever more hurricanes of a force that we may not have experienced before. And then I still have to say that I don't think the government has done enough. In terms of race, it's something that we might be more exposed to in the future than in the past. There are more races — Norway is a country with deep fjords and high mountains, and there are a lot of people living in coastal areas. The government has not, just to take one example, proposed to significantly increase the framework for racial protection in the coming years. According to the documents we received from the Ministry of Transport, there is a need for an amount of NOK 15 billion in order to secure the Norwegian road network. And with the framework we have at our disposal now, it'll take 10 to 15 years before you've racially secured the entire road network. This is an example of the fact that these challenges have not been taken seriously. In the context of another report on climate change that is being addressed, the SV proposes that, in 2006, we receive a comprehensive report on the effects of climate change, in particular how the Norwegian society and the Norwegian economy will be affected by climate change, i.e.: the expected ring-effects and how action and societal planning in all sectors concerned can reduce the impact of climate change. We get a broad case to the Stortinget during 2006 on this issue, and this should be looked at across the sectors. So then my question is to the Council of State – if this government continues until 2006: Do you agree that the Storting should have an overall case about the situation in relation to climate change and extreme weather?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1018	I can at least answer for the sector I am responsible for, that it is important that we take this with us in the major proposals we have. It was here shown the priority in relation to race. It would be natural to follow up on the annual budgets. That means that as politicians both in the department and here in the Stortinget, we must be willing to give priority to racial protection at the expense of other things. That's the hard reality we're facing. I have stressed that within the budgets we have, it is going to be working very seriously in terms of both unforeseen and contingent changes in the climate. We know that we have a major race challenge. It is absolutely right that the last year has given us many and new experiences of how intense this can be, and how important it is to some areas of this country. That is one of the reasons why in my sector we are working very actively to identify and analyse what we see in relation to race. I would like to stress that from my point of view, I consider climate change to be extremely serious in view of the two considerations that I have started with: we need to take the seriousness of the contribution we have to make to prevent a deterioration in this situation. That's something we can't just do nationally, it requires an international effort. But we don't have time to sleep in this area. Then we have to prepare for – and follow-up – events that can occur. I'm glad that the interpellant said he didn't think we did anything, because I want to stress that it does a lot. But this is a very demanding area, how much is unpredictable. That's why it's important that we use resources to analyse, and that we can access learning in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1027	There are serious things that are being taken up by the interpellant today. I still think it is very important that we do not become doomsday prophets, but that we look with optimism at what we can try to do with the major challenges of anthropogenic climate emissions – perhaps the greatest environmental challenge in the future. Norway has put itself in a situation where we have too little energy. In 2002–03, we imported some 50 million. tonnes of CO2 because we haven't made sure we have enough renewable energy in this country. It is also a challenge that I believe is absolutely important to include in this debate. Our challenge is to try to do something about it. So for the road sector, CO2 emissions have increased by about 18 pst. from 1990 to 2001. My challenge, of course, is to do something about it, try to get more traffic from road to track, and try to get the traffic that is going on the road anyway, to become more environmentally friendly. Car and truck use is too much of the emissions, but there are also significant emissions from the ferry sector and from other coastal traffic. So here's the challenge of trying to make more environmentally friendly fuels available in a transitional phase until it reaches the hydrogen community. If the forecasts with which the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen operates are correct, it will mean dramatic challenges for Norway. Extremism in a country with an already extreme nature will require action, perhaps also of an extreme nature, both in the transport sector and in many other areas. It is important to be prepared for possible extreme weather. Therefore, a review of whether installations, roads, bridges and aerodromes can withstand the weather must be carried out in the transport companies. It's important, both to provide the best possible security for the people who travel in the country, and from the situation we're in in relation to the creation of value in our nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1044	Most of the climate research shows that climate change is largely man-made. The major steps in environmental policy must be taken on the planning side. It is okay that the interpellant demands concrete action to mitigate damage due to bad weather, but it is even more important to do something about the weather itself. In Oslo, the Right has fought for concentrated urban development, we keep the mark line, build closer and build along existing trajectories in the construction zone. It reduces transport work and the corresponding need for energy. The Alnabru terminal, Norway’s largest terminal, is being modernised and expanded in the next few years. Organised for the railway and co-located with companies with a high need for transport work, the terminal appears to be the purest environmental example. The location saves the city for millions of trailer kilometres. And then the public transport, then: Listen to the word public transport. The word "collective traffic" gives us an audio image that refers us to the masonry gray, the Soviet lynx and the atonal depressive – as colorful as piested grass tree in battle with the first snowfall a foggy November evening. In reality, efficient public transport is part of a dynamic symbiosis with glistening children's eyes, songs of praise around green Christmas and blue waves against sunburned bodies. In the city, public transport is a bit of all of this. Common transport gives us rich land gains, reduces traffic slumping and draws a blue sky over our poor heads. This is the best environmental government ever. We promise to continue when we win the election. Never has any government spent more on public transport than this – in 2005 we are running collectively for DKK 1.7 billion more than the Workers' Party did in 2001. In this phenomenal and mysterious means of emergence called train, there has been a growth of 20 pst. This year, compared with 2001. In the capital is 70 pst. of work journeys by public transport. Competition is a fair worth. To be the best, it is necessary to save on all inputs — raw material and energy, including. You will never win a tender without energy savings and a conscious relationship with resource use. This dynamic has this government put in system. We are putting off competition – that is why we are the best at resource use, and we are the most greedy at greenhouse gas emissions. Last night, the NSB won the Gjøvik track in a competition. In doing so, the NSB added 10 million more train crowns per year together with a better train offer. That is what competition is all about – more for users, less for administration, and better resource use. It's called trustworthiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1057	The climate threat is among the policy issues that are so heavy and of such a nature that it will help to define policy lines for the future, not just in Norway but globally. The dividing lines will stand between those who take the threat seriously, and those who close their eyes and think that it's going well anyway. When I went to high school not too many years ago, it was still the case that we were arguing with our nature teacher about whether the climate noise was real. Much has happened since that time, and research makes us safer and safer that we're now there to observe changes that are of such a nature that we have to take it seriously. I will admit that in many debates I have been afraid of the debate we have today, the debate on adaptation to climate change. But now we've come so far that we don't have a choice anymore. In addition to having an active policy to bring emissions down, we need to see that now changes are happening, and we need to adapt to them. It became very clear to me when I had the joy of flying over Greenland on my way to the Arctic Council in Nuuk. In September, in the middle of the Greenland ice, you could see the melting ponds. And when you land and get a review by Robert Corell, who presented The Arctic Climate Impact Assessment Report, the ACIA report, and explained how the Greenland ice is about to melt, it makes an indelible impression. Disappears the Greenland ice, increasing the world's oceans by 7 meters. It's not going to happen quickly, but it's the biggest climate change you've ever seen in what you can say is the history of human civilization. Corell also reported examples from the Alaskan transport sector. Alaska is dependent on ice roads. In 1970, roads could be used in winter. 200 days. In 2000, the temperature changes were of such a nature that the number of days on the ice roads was reduced to 100, i.e. only half. There is only one example of how climate change changes transport opportunities. On the sea side there will also be other things, compared to the fact that sea routes that have not been open because of ice will be opened. That's the way someone might think that oi, that was positive. But first of all, the changes we are observing are going to make us take the problems seriously in the future – we have to do everything in our power to get the emissions down. Then it is that we are also going to ask the question in the transport sector in all the issues we are dealing with: Will this help to increase or reduce emissions of all greenhouse gases?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1075	It's basically a funny debate when I'm listening to all these promises that you're going to have reduced emissions and increase public transport, because it's got so bad weather, and it's been global warming. The SV representative Heidi Sørensen said that when she went to high school, it was about global warming. I'm a lot older. When I went to high school – or high school, as we used to call it – it was time to get it. So the Council of State says she wants to slow down climate change and reduce emissions and bet on public transport. They've been saying that for decades. However, every time the Progress Party has a proposal to reduce the one-off charge for a car to get a newer car park, it is no. Newer cars use half of the fuel that the old car park does. We have Europe's oldest car park – only Turkey is on the same old level as we are. Then we've got the shuttle. Put it on offer and demand new ferries! They use a lot less fuel. The same must be done for bus concessions: Insert the strictest euro requirements! This is what you do in other countries when you put this out for tender. But what do you do in Norway? Here you let old buses hop and walk around in all streets – buses that are 15 years old, 20 years old. So when you put this on offer, you can demand that the buses be new – go for the euro requirements and finish it! You can go for environmental gasoline. Now the Committee on Transport has been in Sydney and has seen what happened there. There you lower the prices of gas to the bottom. What happened? All the taxis went to the gas. It was run on in Sydney, and there was a very different situation there in a short time. That's where you used carrots instead of whips, and that's what you should actually do. Another thing: we can open the collective fields for cars with two or more people. We can do the same in the bombing rings, either let the cars drive cheaper or open the bombs if there are two or three people in a car. Then you'll get a lot of cars on the roads. I can mention hundreds of things like that. There are, among other things: in a number of other countries, as the Committee has seen, pick-up points, where passengers can be carried because you can drive through the bombs for free. There are lots of things where you can use the carrot principle to bring down the emissions. But instead, you're going to be standing here racqueting over everything and talking about doomsday prophecies and something like that. Now Mai has been so cold that now soon this has turned, and you go towards ice age again!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1092	The debate on the impact of ongoing climate change is very important. Average temperatures have increased in the last 100 years, which is expected to have major global consequences. Statistics show the average number of natural disasters per year. years on a global basis have increased by over 65 pst. from 1993 to 2002. Compared to many other countries, Norway is a climate-resilient country, but also in Norway it must be assumed that different kinds of natural events, especially heavy wind and rainfall at risk of floods and races, will increase significantly. The loads on infrastructure and dwellings may be higher than they are today. The Christian People's Party is strongly concerned about the issue of climate change and action plans for prevention and preparedness for its consequences. It represents a significant part of the overall social security and preparedness to which it is so important to focus, and which has also been a major concern in recent debates on social security and preparedness. The fundamental objective of the work on social security is to prevent the occurrence of adverse events and minimise the consequences of such events. In terms of prevention, which the interpellant was not so much concerned about, but which is mentioned by several other speakers, I would like to stress that the Government has actually decided to set up a sample to investigate how Norway can develop into a low-carbon society in the longer term. The sample shall assume that national greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced by 50-80 pst. by 2050. Action on collective and zero-emission technologies is an important instrument in reducing climate damage. In this way, as has also been mentioned by several speakers here, our government has just invested heavily in collective transport solutions in the budgets that have been presented. Finally, in the case of preparedness in response to any crises that might arise, we in the Christian People's Party are satisfied that extensive work is already under way on risk analysis and action and preparedness plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1106	I would like to join in what others have been discussing earlier in the debate, that there is an important issue that has been raised by the inter-pellant. It's right, as the interpellant has had as a starting point, that in periods last winter it was extreme weather that, among other things, it was. in the West caused considerable difficulties, especially for road traffic. There was a race in which almost a year went by race, but the unusual thing was that there was a race where people could never remember that race had gone. Many dangerous situations occurred for road users, lives were lost, and we must call it luck that no more were killed. This creates security and poorer quality of life for people. With the developments in extreme weather that we can probably wait for years to come, we need to put greater emphasis on measures that can meet the challenges of extreme weather. Clearly, we need to think both in the short term and in the long term to meet these challenges. Governments were well aware of heavy rain, race, raspberry, wind, and it is clear that it is one of the measures involved. But we might also have to think about securing the transport years we have, and also thinking about the long term when we plan and design the transport years in the future. Clearly, action to reduce man-made climate change must also be important. On the roadside, we have come a while to meet these challenges by getting a separate post on the race protection budget. But there are still major challenges that cannot be resolved within the financial framework we have. However, it is also important that, when assessing measures that prevent accidents from happening, we have at the same time arrangements to deal with the situations that we know will arise. Because I think we just have to realize that even if we put a lot of money into racial protection and other measures, it may be difficult to guard ourselves completely against blazing. So we have to think in more paths, we have to think in the short term, and we have to think in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1117	As many people have said, it is a very interesting and very important theme that is being taken up today. There are also several ways to solve this, including: I thought that the representative Kjästad was interested in perhaps one of the most important things when he talked about that we need to be better able to achieve our goals with less resources, that is, competition, get a more efficient public sector, among other things. in the field of transport, which means that we can achieve less resource use, thereby also saving the environment and saving the crowns that we can use for other purposes. When I take the floor, however, it is to correct that representative Geir-Ketil Hansen gave the impression of when it concerns the Government and the effort against race. The representative said that it looks like the government will bet relatively little on this, or at least not bet enough. I want to remember what this government has done in the last four years. It is a sharp increase in relation to what has been done under previous governments. Only to take up what has been done with the draft revised budget for 2005: we have an increase of about 30 pst in road safety. average annual increments from the previous set-up period up to this point, which is an increase from an average of 370 million. NOK 490 million. kr per. years. To say a little bit about what this means in practice: we've actually made it clear during this period to secure 37 important distances that have been rascaled, and 130 very rascal points. Of course, there is a long way to go, but at least I think there shouldn't be a hanging impression that this government isn't paying enough attention to these measures, because this government has invested and got a lot more for far more than any government has ever done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1124	In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the debate and for the fact that so many people agree that this is a very important issue, which has to go further into the years to come. When I have asked for the word, it is just to comment on a few articles, because there were some articles that definitely were not about what this matter is about. At the very least, I think the representative Hans Gjeisar Kjästad went when he used the whole article to talk about the public transport in Oslo, the government's excellence, the competitive outsourcing and the offer on the Gjøvikbahn. It was almost so that I thought it was what he was going to talk about in the next case, in Odelstinget, about the railway law, he to the confusion took up in this post. So to the representative Petter Løvik, who said that this government has increased its efforts on racial protection. It was a comment on what I said about it. So this government proposed to delete the earmarked item for racial protection in the 2003 budget, I believe. It was the opposition that contributed to the entry coming back. It is also the opposition, against the votes of the government parties, that has contributed to the increase of this item during this period. So once we have increased efforts in that area, it's precisely because of the opposition and the majority that the opposition has made with the Progress Party. Finally, I would like to say that Heidi Sørensen was concerned about the essentials of his contribution, namely that in the future we need not only to talk about the causes of climate change and measures to reduce climate emissions – they are important enough – but we also need to focus much more on what is going on climate adaptation, to equip our infrastructure to meet the major challenges of more extreme weather that we are going to have in Norway. We have to focus a lot more on that than we've done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1135	Once again, thanks to the inter-pellant for launching a debate that I believe is very important. It also strikes me that when we discuss this, we refer to all the journeys we make around the Earth to discuss these kinds of themes, and as we travel, we use technological solutions that exacerbate the situation. It might be a cross of thought for more of us. It also means that it's important to think about future technology, which could be very interesting to discuss, but I won't. I'm going to stick to the theme that the interpellant was on, that went on the situation as it is. I think there have been interesting recordings that I'm going to take with me further in the work in the department. We are already deeply involved in this, but I will also take along what has come beyond that. I would like to stress that we have put heavily into racial protection, knowing that there is an infinite need. When I say that we have invested heavily in racial protection, I believe it goes far beyond the item related to racial protection. It was a bit of a background to plan on removing the item called racial protection. Instead, we need to focus on what we're actually doing in relation to racial protection. I would like to stress that regardless of whether there is an item with that name, or you have it elsewhere in the budget, the effort in relation to racial protection will be heavy in the years to come. There are many projects, entirely new projects, which may involve tunnels or other solutions, which will be crucial to solving the more or less acute problems that you have. I think this has been a good debate, and I hope we can continue it, and that we also remember this when we are going to discuss both public transport and rail solutions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1148	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1159	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1169	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The size agrees that E18 Bjørvika is being conducted as a OPS project and that the tolling company is allowed to make borrowings under this.2. The Ministry of Transport shall be empowered to conclude an agreement with the tolling company and to lay down detailed rules for the financial instrument.3. The project is financed by the State budget with a payment per year. optical-reading-based passage4. The amortisation period shall be set at 10 years from the completion.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1205	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1225	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1237	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-01.ana.ud2196e1248	There is no record.
