ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e92	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. From 12 November to 21 November, the representative, Mr Børge Brende, submitted an application for leave to attend the Chinese Council for International Cooperation on Environment and Development in Beijing, following an invitation from the Chinese Government. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara Representative, Linda Cathrine Hofstad, is hereby invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e118	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council on Tuesday 15 November – and will consider it adopted. The President proposes Per Ove Width. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove With is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting on Tuesday 15 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e128	The proposition will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e133	On behalf of the representatives Børge Brende, Line Henriette Holten Hämdal and myself, I am delighted to propose a state acquisition of the property Vestre Vollene on Hardangervidda.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e138	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e141	On behalf of myself and Øyvind Korsberg, I propose that the investment fund for North-West Russia be moved and added to the Kirkenes. It also involves re-prioritising the Eastern European Fund and transferring funds from it to the North-West Russia Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e147	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e159	The voters have given the new majority of the population – and a new majority government – a mission: it is to strengthen the community. It is to spend the big money on the biggest tasks we have – to ensure a decent care for those who need it, when they need it, that all children and young people have the opportunity to grow and develop, to be seen and to master a demanding future, to combat differences and have the aim of eliminating poverty in the world's richest countries, to have a working life where there is room for those who want to make an effort, and to keep the cook as close as possible to becoming retirement pensioners, and to manage the environment and nature responsible and in view of future generations. The new government has had 24 days. Those days we've been using to do what we can to start fulfilling the goals of the Soria Moria Declaration. It is in the municipalities the most important job is done. 30 pst. of the budgets of the municipalities go to school, 40 pst. of the budgets of the municipalities are allocated to health, social and care tasks. It is the main tasks and expenditure of municipalities. The free resources of municipalities will be increased by DKK 5.7 billion. A reasonable nursery place is important for all children to have good opportunities for development, learning and knowledge. The maximum price of NOK 2 250 is introduced and the kindergartens are to be further expanded. We are increasing efforts to combat poverty by just over 400 million. kr in relation to the Government of Bondevik. We are betting on work and tidy working conditions throughout the country. The Government shall provide a responsible budget. We use the space where our responsibility is greatest, to ensure that the community that everyone depends on works. This will take place within responsible budgetary frameworks, based on the same use of oil money as the Bondevik government provided, but with a clear new priority: when we give priority to school, care and justice, we give priority to tax relief. In the government's draft budget, we are following up the tax reform in a much fairer way than the Bondevik government proposed. Increased capital and wealth taxes ensure that the 10 pst. The richest has to pay more taxes than they do today. The tax rebates for next year are cancelled, and we are increasing the level of taxation compared to this year by almost NOK 3 billion. The Norwegian economy is solid. We expect solid economic growth next year, good growth in employment and a decline in unemployment. The changes in our draft budget, which involve a higher level of taxation and higher public expenditure than the national budget proposed by the Bondevik Government, slow down the growth of private consumption somewhat, while the growth in public consumption is increasing. The GDP of mainland Norway is now expected to increase by 2.5 pst. in 2006 after an estimated growth of 3,6 pst. in the current year. Much of the difference between 2005 and 2006 can be explained by the assumption that oil investments are flattened after a very strong growth in recent years, and a cautious, gradual rise in interest rates is expected in the interest rate market and will to some extent dampen the growth of private consumption. Housing investments are likely to surface at the high level of the day. The level of interest rates will remain low, and the rise in employment, together with real wage growth, is pointing towards continued growth in household demand. Employment is estimated to increase by 22,000 in 2006. There are 4 000 more people than estimated with the budget of the Bondevik II Government. In addition, we expect that more people who work part-time can expand their job break. Improving the community economy means more hands at work in schools and care. We expect unemployment to fall by 1/2 percent points next year, to 4.1 pst. In addition, we have ‘money on book’ and an oil fund that is expected to be over NOK 1650 billion by the end of next year. In order to enhance well-being, a strong, competitive sector is necessary. We must therefore have a good and stable framework for working life and business. We will pursue an active business policy and focus on research and development. The government will invite closer cooperation on income policy with the social partners. In order to meet the competition, Norwegian companies cannot over time have a higher cost increase than the cost growth of our trading partners. So the Norwegian economy is in very good condition, and many other countries can envy our situation. Now it's our job to manage the values we have, primarily because we're going to leave something that's more valuable to the next generation than what we took from those who went before us. Some things can't be bought for money. Therefore, the environmental policy of the majority government is based on the principle of sustainable development and the precautionary principle. This State budget provides initial funding for the large effort to be made in Norway in the coming years to establish a value chain for CO2 and for the removal of CO2 from the gas power plant at Kårstø – and all gas power plants that will be built later. This is not the state budget's largest expenditure item in this round, but we know that we need to invest more later in order to achieve our goal of CO2 removal at Kårstø by 2009. We have a big oil and gas fortune. Still, most of it is below sea level. But we have also spent a lot of money and changed it into money. There is a surplus on the State budget and money in the State Petroleum Fund. It takes millions of years to ‘layer’ oil and gas. Our generation is not allowed to pump up these values as fast as we can, convert them into money and spend these oil money in front of the nose of the next generation. We must manage the values responsibly, and we must invest in the future. From the beginning of the oil adventure until today, we have spent over half of the oil wealth we have converted into money. Something's consumed, something's invested. Today, every $12 we spend on public budgets, an 'oil crown' -- it's a little hard to see the difference between them, but that's what it is -- and we've only spent over 220 billion 'oil crowns' over the state budget in the last four years. So we've spent a lot of oil money, and we're going to spend a lot of oil money on the way forward. But we're going to do it in a sense. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the parties to the Government stress that the rule of action should form the basis of budgetary policy. The rule of action means that the real return on the fund capital of the State Petroleum Fund, estimated at 4 p.m., can be used over time over the State budget. This results in a gradual increase in the use of oil revenues approximately as the fund grows. The action rule provides some flexibility. In bad times, there may be good reasons to use more than 4 pst. to stimulate production and employment. On the contrary, it makes sense to use a little less in good times, when unemployment is low, and there are pressures in the economy. Monetary policy shall operate in conjunction with fiscal policy and shall be pursued as set out in the Monetary Policy Regulation, emphasising both price increases and stable developments in production and employment. The 2006 budget maintains a high level of use of oil revenues, but does not escalate further. The structural deficit amounts to DKK 65.9 billion, as laid down in the proposal of the Bondevik II Government. The budget ceiling works roughly neutrally on the activity of the economy. How much oil we can use over the state budget while respecting the rule of action also depends on how high the oil price is and how much the state petroleum fund is growing. Four percent is going to be more dollars when the oil price is high than when it's low. So if the oil price is high over time, we can get into the situation in the future that we're using more oil crowns over the budget than today, but that's less than 4 pst. the real return of the fund. In any case, the extent to which the use of this space for action would be appropriate is determined by the development of the Norwegian economy. And: whether the oil wealth is in trust or is still at the bottom of the sea, it is actually a small part of our total national wealth. Norway’s main national wealth is people — what each of us can, and what we contribute in sum. The Soria Moria Declaration provides a clear new course for active labour market policy and for offensive industrial policy. The government warned that the Labour Environment Act should be amended to reduce temporary employment opportunities and reduce overtime use, and that we should have a more humane working life that will enable us to be active until retirement. At the same time, we are strengthening labour market measures in the budget for the next year with well 2,000 new posts, and we are reintroducing mandatory introduction programmes for those who come to Norway on family reunification with people who are already here on a humanitarian basis. It provides better opportunities for inclusion in the labour market of minorities, where we know that unemployment is particularly high. When the labour market is improving and more people are employed, active labour market policies can ensure that groups who have had problems in the labour market over time also have the opportunity to get to work. We improve the day-to-day arrangements for those who are not going to work, by restoring holiday earnings from 1 July, and we are preparing a pilot project with a 6-hour working day or other shorter working time in the country. In the longer term, investment in knowledge and competence will determine Norway’s future welfare. Research and education are essential for the success of the high-cost country of Norway. We know that we can never compete with low-cost countries to produce the cheapest goods possible. We depend on being in the forefront of the development of new technologies, new solutions and more environmentally friendly production to ensure value creation in the future. It requires that we invest in the knowledge society. The government is paying over SEK 1.3 billion in addition to the Bondevik II government's proposals for more and cheaper kindergartens next year. That means that the maximum price is set at $2,250 per person. months. The government has also moved kindergartens to the Ministry of Knowledge, because we want to see kindergartens as a first, voluntary start to the knowledge cycle. We're the most molded when we're small, and society is going to take responsibility for offering every child a high-quality nursery. The 400-million-dollar proposal. for new teaching materials in primary school are continued. In addition, the other proposals from the Bondevik II Government to ensure that the Knowledge Promise is implemented from the 2006/2007 school year are continued. The main effort to strengthen the school in 2006 is to strengthen the local economy. Many municipalities have suffered from poor finances in recent years. This has resulted in tightening up both the school and care sectors for some municipalities. The government wants to strengthen the municipalities because a strong and healthy municipal economy is a prerequisite for a good welfare offer throughout the country. The 2006 draft budget of the majority government represents a strong commitment for the municipalities. Free revenues are actually increased by DKK 5.7 billion in 2006, corresponding to 3.5 pst. Forced exchange of textbooks and other teaching materials in primary school in connection with the Knowledge Lift is financed under this framework. The same applies to increased regional grants of 225 million. kr. Compared to the draft budget by the Bondevik II government, we are increasing the free revenues by DKK 3.8 billion. I'm typing that many municipalities right now are checking how they are coming out of this state budget. For example, the mountains will discover that, for their part, the State budget alone will mean an increase of 148 million. kr extra in relation to the Bondevik government proposal, corresponding to NOK 621 per year. the population. The conversion municipality of Hasvik in Finnmark receives more than 2.4 million. Extra kroner. The government facilitates more well-being in the municipalities than the Bondevik government has agreed to. The government is making a big contribution to culture and increasing the cultural budget by 166 million. kr. There is a powerful start to the escalation towards the historic bet that lies in the cultural promise. There we've committed ourselves to cultural purposes being 1 pst. of the State budget by 2014. This is an enormous amount of money for the cultural sector, and we are triggering a lot of activity around the whole country. By means of a more committed consultation mechanism between the State and the municipal sector, the Government will ensure that total economic resources in the public sector are better used. Employees and their organisations shall be involved in this work. The government announced in the Soria Moria Declaration that it will continue the overall level of taxation from 2004. The government’s tax proposals mean that the tax level is actually rising by about DKK 3 billion compared to 2005, but the level in 2006 is about DKK 2 billion lower than in 2004. The government follows up the main features of the reform of income taxation, including: increased taxation of high capital income. It will contribute to increased fiscal non-discrimination, reduce opportunities for circumvention and improve resource use in the economy. It will no longer be possible to secure large tax relief for those who have much by converting employee income into capital income in order to escape with a low tax of 28 pst. When the marginal taxes on high capital income and labour income are almost the same, it is no longer particularly useful to make real labour income taxed as capital income. It is important for the distribution policy and it is important for everyone to pay taxes with understanding. There is a broad political consensus on the implementation of the tax reform in the Stortinget, and the key elements of the tax reform will therefore be based on a broad political majority. However, the majority government has implemented the tax reform with a much more equitable distribution profile than the Bondevik II government’s proposals in the national budget. The tax system shall take account of important considerations of distribution. Those with high equity income and assets shall contribute more to the community than at present. Overall, the government’s proposals will provide a better distribution of the tax burden than the proposal presented by the previous government. However, in the case of persons with low incomes, the expenditure side of the budget will have the most impact. The increase in taxes and charges provides the basis for financing public expenditure that contributes to the increased well-being of broad groups and the poorest. The government is increasing its efforts to combat poverty in Norway. The child allowance for persons receiving rehab and rehabilitation benefits increases from SEK 17 to NOK 27 per year. day(s) That means $2,600 per. Children per day years of increased income for some of those who are most struggling with poor finances. In addition, care for drug users in particular is strengthened, housing is increased in major cities, and health and education measures for prisoners in prisons are strengthened. The government will focus its efforts on language training, education and action to maximise the number of people entering work. Therefore, it is proposed to reintroduce the grant for family reunification to persons residing in Norway on a humanitarian basis. At the same time, it is proposed that these should again be subject to the right and obligation of the introduction programme. Overall, the government’s efforts mean an increase of 493 million. in addition to the poverty rate of the Bondevik II government, which amounted to 262 million. kr in the 2006 budget. The government’s proposal means that tax relief will be provided for work of more than DKK 5 billion from 2005 to 2006. These are, among other things, necessary for the implementation of the tax reform. However, the government proposes to tighten the top tax and the minimum deduction of DKK 3.6 billion compared to the proposal of the Bondevik II government. The lower revenues will receive a greater share of the relief from the minimum deduction than from the Bondevik II Government’s proposal. The government emphasises that taxes on wealth are to play a central role in the policy on distribution. Assets are widely distributed among the population, and the 10 pst. The richest in Norway has almost two thirds of all equity. The government does not follow up the Bondevik II government’s proposals on tax relief on wealth and inheritance, but proposes to increase the property tax by 260 million. kr. However, property taxes are given a more social profile than they are today by increasing the base deduction and removing class 2, while increasing the valuation of shares, certificates of basic funds, shares in securities funds, housing, recreational housing and other real estate. So it's going to be more consistent with actual values. The government's proposals for increased taxes on wealth have good distribution effects. The highest-income groups will receive tax incentives from 2005 to 2006, while other groups will be relieved. Specific deduction schemes help to make the tax system more complicated and also have adverse distribution effects as they are often used in practice by the high income groups. In addition, the tax system should be set up in such a way that all remuneration is taxed equally, regardless of whether it is provided in cash or in kind. We follow, among other things: raise the Bondevik II Board’s proposal to change the taxation of telephones paid by the employer and tighten up the Home PC scheme. The government also proposes some other basic extensions. The deduction of the trade-union quota and the agricultural deduction is increased, while the proposal to increase the depreciation rate on machinery to 25 pst. reverse. Fees are increasing somewhat compared to the Bondevik II Government's proposals. Among other things, we keep the basic charge on drinking packaging, as announced in the Soria Moria declaration. Furthermore, we increase the charges on individual vehicles and, in line with the wishes of the tourism industry, we postpone the introduction of VAT on overnight accommodation services until 1 September 2006. Environmental taxes and negotiable allowances motivate individuals and businesses for more environmentally friendly behaviour, while being an important source of income for the country. The government will therefore continue to work on increasing the use of environmental taxes in the 2007 budget. Among other things, we are investigating: a NOx fee to ensure that Norway complies with its obligations under the Gothenburg Protocol. In addition, the aim is to change car taxes more environmentally friendly in the 2007 budget. The majority government is amending the Bondevik II government's budget in total NOK 8.1 billion. We are implementing almost all of the tax consolidation that is needed to return to the level of taxation in 2004. This gives room to start working on fulfilling many other goals in the Soria Moria statement as well. The government will implement a district policy lift. We will give people real freedom in the choice of residence and facilitate optimism along the coast and in the countryside. Active and targeted regional and regional policies shall contribute to the creation of value, jobs and well-being where people live. In order to succeed, it is necessary to strengthen regional policy instruments and coordinate broad regional and regional policies. Better urban economy is also an important contribution to rural policy. It provides the basis for expanding well-being throughout the country and empowers municipalities to be a co-player in regional development. In addition, the Government is in favour of a significant increase in regional policy instruments through county municipalities and various national measures. In order to provide better protection for major healthcare users, it is proposed that self-participation II be reduced from NOK 3 500 to NOK 2 500 in 2006. The additional expenditure is estimated at 50 million. kr. The government is betting on transportation and will, among other things, increase the appropriations for investments in rail by 142 million. DKK and investment worth 125 million. kr, while the appropriations for road and railway operation and maintenance are proposed to increase by 115 million. kr. It is also proposed that 50 million be made available. kr more for racial protection. The government will improve the main discount schemes to travel with the national highways by increasing the discount rate from 40 pst. to 45 pst. from 1 May 2006. In order to achieve a targeted and balanced effort in the justice sector, the Government proposes to increase the appropriations for police and criminal services by well over 120 million. kr. While the Bondevik II Government proposed a conversion of the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, the Government proposes to continue the current regime for the first half of 2006. From 1 July the Government proposes to extend the current net pay scheme. Overall, the proposal significantly strengthens the framework conditions for seafarers on board competitive ships in NOR. For NIS ships, a continuation of the current regime is proposed. Activity forecasts for the whole of 2005, based on reported activity per year. 2. tertiary 2005, indicates a growth in activity-funded treatment in health enterprises of about 2.5 pst. in 2005. In order to enable the high level of activity to continue in 2005 in 2006, an additional allocation of 500 million is proposed. kr in 2006. The transfer of responsibility for the county protection of children to the State from 1 January 2004 has resulted in major changes in the protection of children. With respect to the 2005 budget adopted, the evolution of accounts up to the third quarter indicates significant additional consumption. The government is therefore proposing to increase the funding of the State Child Protection Agency by 150 million. kr relative to St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006. Some of the priorities of the draft budget for the Bondevik II Government are in line with the Soria Moria declaration. This applies, inter alia, to: increased appropriations for international assistance and follow-up to the psychiatry plan. These bets are continued in this Appendix to St.prp. No 1st@item: In addition, the stepping up of research appropriations in 2006 is also being continued, mainly as in the 2006 Yellow Book. In order to spend about NOK 8.1 billion more for priority purposes, the Government also proposes some cost reductions. We would like, among other things: reduce cash support and spend less money on carrying out national tests. The majority government has great ambitions, as expressed in the Soria Moria Declaration. We've promised to work for strengthening the common welfare systems fair redistribution of work to all and a working life for all The painting «Long distance he saw something bright and glittering» shows the goal of the dream that finally became true – Soria Moria. It's a bit ahead of you, but with this budget, the majority government has taken the first important steps towards a more solidarity society, where we give priority to the community over tax relief. With this, I have the honour to present to the majority government the proposal for changes to the 2006 government budget – changes for community, welfare and better distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e294	The President will propose that a comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group, in accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. The President will propose to derogate from Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, so that a comment by the Minister of Finance, and then a final comment by the representative of the opposition party, may be given on each post up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up to 3 minutes at the end of the debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives will use the pulpit in front of the Presidential and the Finance Minister the second interlocutor down there for all replyers. The Minister of Finance or Prime Minister may choose to use the interlocutory up here in the last three minutes that will end the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e305	There is reason to congratulate the Government on a budget that is set at welfare rather than tax relief. We have heard countless stories of failure in care for the elderly, of students who have received a lower school offer, of young people who have met closed leisure services because the municipalities have not had the money to give the population a real offer. The Right-Original Government paid for its tax relief to the richest through such cuts in the offer of children and the elderly. This imbalance in the finances of municipalities cannot be corrected for three weeks. But the Stoltenberg government is now giving the municipalities NOK 5.7 billion more in free income next year – NOK 3.8 billion more than the Bondevik government. It gives municipalities the opportunity to provide our children with a better schooling and a better service to our older people than they would be able to after the arrangement of the previous government. The Bondevik administration's arrangements would also have cut the number of patients in the hospital. It is corrected by the new government by adding an extra half a billion kroner. The overall level of taxation is increased by DKK 3 billion in excess of the current level. It will be a theoretical exercise when, in its first comments on the budget, the Right has compared to the proposed reliefs of the Bondevik government. The government follows up the main features of the tax reform that Stortinget dealt with in ours. It is positive that the Government in this way facilitates a broad political consensus on the main lines of the reform. The total tax on labour income is significantly higher than the total tax on dividend dividends. That is why, as the Minister of Finance said, it is very profitable today to organise themselves in such a way that income is taken out as dividends rather than as wages. The difference in taxes on income from work and on capital must therefore be reduced by the introduction of taxes on dividends on shares and reduced rates of taxation on wages and salaries. At the same time, the government presents a plan for a fairer distribution, as the Minister of Finance explained. The tax system needs to be amended in such a way that persons with high capital income and wealth have to contribute more to the community. The approach presented by the Minister of Finance shows that the vast majority of those with less than 1 million income. kr, will receive unchanged tax or a limited relief, while those with gross income above 1 million. kr on average will receive a tax increase of close to NOK 44 000. At the same time, the Government reduces most of the costs for people, including: through lower prices in kindergarten, which for a family with two children in kindergarten means a reduction of almost NOK 11000 per year. years in relation to the arrangements of Bondevik. At the same time, a reinforcement is proposed for those who have the least. The Bondevik government proposed 263 million. kr for next year. The Stoltenberg government is proposing 756 million. kr. But the most important measure to help those who have financial problems is to ensure work for everyone. Unfortunately, unemployment has increased significantly during the previous government. The Stoltenberg government takes a powerful thank-you to develop a working life with room for everyone. Labour market measures are strengthened in line with Bondevik’s approach. The period of leave is extended in relation to the arrangements of Bondevik. The unemployment benefit is improved. Access to increased use of temporary employment is stopped. The rules for overtime use are corrected. The government provides a budget that will contribute to stable economic development both in the short and long term. Financial policy is enshrined in the rules of action. Monetary policy is enshrined in the current regulation. The government does not use a single penny more of the oil money than the previous government proposed, but the money is used in a different way – a completely different way. The new majority show that they're on their way, but a lot remains. There is a limited amount of change that can occur within three weeks. The government’s policy platform is then also valid for the entire four-year period. But the Minister of Finance's statement shows just as fully that we have a government that will take a completely different course from the previous one. We have a government that will ensure a working life with room for everyone, who will strengthen the commitment to knowledge, and will improve the services of our elderly. We have a government that chooses welfare over taxation, that wants a stronger community over private solutions, and that will have a fairer distribution. The Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Centre Party, will ensure a majority for such a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e333	Now we've got the extra proposition. The Chairman of the Financial Committee has just stood by and honoured the proposal submitted by the Minister for Finance. So the minister may well be reasonably sure to get rid of this in this big business. In many ways there were today some election vows to be met. Many of us in this room and not least many of the people have been waiting violently for this amazing package to be packed with red and green paper and see what was on the inside. $8.1 billion in re-priorities was what you found. Then maybe it's funny with a little review of the re-priorities that the Progress Party got on the budget we're running for today, which was also more. At that time it was characterized by the then opposition as the pinglets. It should not be a term used by this representative on the proposal of the new government, but I note that there are no major repriorities without the majority coming from significant tax and tax cuts, DKK 6.4 billion. All that is paid out in this budget comes as a result of these tax aggressors. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we read that the Government will ‘continue the overall level of taxation applicable in 2004’. As the Progress Party sees this presented, one is not very far away from this level, which the Minister of Finance also concluded in his speech here instead. Then the questions that will be reported fairly quickly: how are we going to finance all the promises that remain in the Soria Moria Declaration that have not been included in the Government's amendment? It might be appropriate for the Minister of Finance to confirm that the wording contained in the Soria Moria Declaration is in place, so that citizens cannot expect an increase in tax incentives beyond 2004 levels during this period. The review tone in the election campaign has been that those who have little already will now get more. They will receive special care from the new government. One of the first things I'm going to find out is that you're increasing the food tax, from 11 pst. to 13 pst. Who hits an increased matrimonium? It does not hit us big-time politicians or others who earn well, but actually those who have the least in the past. I would very much like to get a justification from the Minister of Finance for how this fits into the social profile that the Government has even said they are concerned about. There's DKK 3.8 billion more in relation to Bondevik II for the municipalities. There are probably a lot of rapporteurs today who are happy about it out in Kommune-Norway. The question that arises is whether the inhabitants of these municipalities should actually enjoy the same thing. It is such that this is given as free income to the municipalities. Well, that's good. But how does it harmonize with the promises of better care for the elderly, better school, when one cannot be guaranteed by the Government and finally by the Storting that these 3.8 billion more than the Bondevik II government's proposals will actually go to these areas? Health policy is a concern of the citizens of this country. What about the hospital debt, which weighs on our businesses today, and which makes it most likely that there will be large savings proposals in relation to patient treatment and other areas that will cause us to have a weakened offer, if we do nothing to reorganize any of the debt that is owed to our hospitals today? Crime: The new government proposes that the police should receive approx. Eighty million. kr more. It's a positive signal, a step in the right direction. But we know that the fall in investment in the police sector is over 700 million. kr. The question then is, what are we going to do for the police in this country to have the necessary funds for investment? Transport: That's 430 million. kr more on the road and rail. It's a piece away from the 2 billion promised by decision in this hall in the National Transport Plan. This proposal also threatens freedom of choice. Even if the cash support was to be satisfied, changes are now being made. The free schools are most likely to experience worse times and some other moments. The party of progress is not satisfied. It's probably things we could comment more positively. My task here today is preliminary to commenting on what we are not fully satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e361	I would like to thank Ulf Leirstein for his preliminary comments on the budget presented. I think he had a rather constructive tone. I had not expected our budget to create the great cheer in the Progress Party, although I believe that many of the confidence-selections that the Progress Party has around the municipalities, including some rapporteurs, will breathe out a little light because they see that this is a good arrangement for them. It's true, as the representative of Leirstein says, that we don't follow every penny used in the municipalities, with argus eyes, because we think there's sense and understanding locally in Norway. There is sense and understanding locally in Norway, because we know that 30 pst. of the municipalities used over their budgets, go to school, and 40 pst. to care. We therefore know that they can customize this locally. But some municipalities are so hard to run that they have big debts, and they're going to pay off that debt first. But eventually this is going to mean increased well-being in the municipalities. We have estimated that 4,000 jobs could be created due to the direct increase in municipalities – it is in care, it is teachers. Our goal is to reach the bottom. Now it's going to be possible to breathe out to the schools and think that now it has to be over to quit teachers, now it has to be so that we can hire more and see each and every child and encourage each and every child. So to the hospital debt, it's true that this budget isn't solved. But if the Bondevik government's proposal had been passed through the Storting, the activity, i.e. the treatment of patients, decreased. So the same high level will be maintained further. The police are going to be quite satisfied, because they've got a significant increase in bet. We know that we have to make sure that the fight against crime is a high level. In relation to freedom of choice, one of the things we focus most on is to implement the kindergarten reform, which means that we will get full coverage of kindergartens. A great many of those who feel that they have absolutely no freedom of choice are struggling with the lack of the following choice: the ability to choose a nursery place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e374	I am pleased that I have been confirmed that the Progress Party and the new government are still far apart in some areas. It's good to have with you in view of the future. This representative also sees the need for our Norwegian municipalities to have a slightly better local economy. That vision shares the party of progress. But what we're talking about is, when you're committed to strengthening care for the elderly and school, why can't you do it directly to those who are going to benefit from these services, rather than going about the priorities of local politicians? That's our main point. There are many other items I could have commented on in relation to the budget proposal from the Government. It's been 24 days, it was said. This representative has had a few hours. That's a difference. We're going to get back to the more side. But there are a few things that the Minister of Finance did not mention in his statement. I look forward to the debate, for example. on the deduction of commuter charges and the allowance for hire of seafarers. The progress party was in the process of turning it around. This government now wants this to go away. At that time, the Advance Party was honoured by LO. It will be exciting to see the fate of the new government in relation to the LO in this area. However, the representative notes that the trade union deduction is significantly increased by 450 kroner, so as it does, there is a bit of peace in the roses' camp.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e383	A year ago, when Per-Kristian Foss presented the state budget for 2005, the opposition overtook each other to draw a gloomy picture of Norway. A few weeks after the election, the newspaper headlined the first page that the Stoltenberg government came to the covered table. The Minister of Finance’s financial speech confirms this in many ways. The Norwegian economy is very strong. Never before have more people been in work, and never have so many companies been established. The Minister of Finance describes a picture where most things are going well. At the same time, she removes the instruments that have created positive developments. Tax relief has become tax incentives. An offensive commitment to research, development and innovation has been cut short in research. A flexible labour market shall be further regulated. A policy of low interest rates has become a policy that will increase the pressure on interest rates and rates. Of course, one budget will not turn its back on Norway – not even a budget from Kristin Halvorsen. But the powerful left turn of government now alerts, will over time weaken the creation of value and thus our ability to extend well-being. The government parties themselves have created great expectations. Some pick-ups are already parked. Some election vows seem like you'd rather forget, but one election vow has to be paid, and almost at all costs, and that's the tax increases. It is short-term policy to increase taxes to finance increases in public expenditure. Jobs taxed out of the country do not generate value in Norway. There will be no more well-being of weakening value creation. This is a budget that gives a double click. Everyone gets a higher tax, and the interest will eventually go up. Gradually, this will also provide less well-being. What should be an active industrial policy has become an active policy to get rid of industrial policy instruments. The budget will provide a huge tax increase for self-employed people. Increased taxes on capital and capital income will also make it more expensive for Nordics to own businesses in Norway and proportionately cheaper for non-residents. It's a bad signal, and it'll weaken national ownership. The budget is also bad news for industry. Many will remember the election campaign, when Øystein Djupedal ran around with a helmet on his head and promised the industrial workers that now the depreciation rules for machines would be better. The previous government proposed better depreciation rules for machines. The current government has not proposed the same. We know that industrial workers at several of our chocolate factories – Freia, Nidar, Minde – are fighting for their jobs. That is why we proposed to remove the chocolate charge. This government wants to keep the chocolate fee. All income groups receive higher taxes with the new budget. Even those who earn least receive higher taxes with Kristin Halvorsen. Then it doesn't help much that those who earn the most get even more in tax increases. The budget also shows that the Right was right when we said in the election campaign that the Workers' Party and SV would carve out housing and property taxes. Now we see that the equation value has to be increased by almost 25 pst. What may surprise you the most is that a government where the Socialist Left Party is also involved, cuts in research, in development and in innovation. Yes, even the Research Fund is being cut today by a total of DKK 25 billion. This government has been given more room for action, because the cost of popular security has fallen. Think if the Government had spent that money on offensive investment in research, development and education for the future. It would really be laying the foundation for future growth. In the budget there is also a clearly higher growth in public expenditure than in the budget of the previous government. It will increase the pressure on interest rates. The market now expects faster and greater interest rate increases than what one did before the election. For individuals, families and businesses, this could mean a double click. First, families and individuals get tax increases, then they get interest increases, and eventually this will also give less to well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e406	I had not expected the representative Sanner to go hand in hand and cheer. It's not up to him – it's possible it does in other contexts, but at least I've never experienced it in a political debate. It is true that there should not be a black picture of the state of the Norwegian economy as it was when we took over. It's a situation that's solid. The more important it is that we make the right priorities for next year in relation to the scope of action we actually have in the policy. That is why what we are betting on is most important. The right has only had one answer to everything that has happened in recent years, namely tax havens. If the individuals we're talking about are the companies we're talking about, the answer is regardless of the tax burden. We're going to reverse the policy that's right. However, there is no need to draw a dark picture, as if this were a huge increase in taxes compared to the 2005 figure. We're zeroing out the tax credits that the representative Sanner and his party and government promised for 2006. However, there are no strong tax incentives compared to the 2005 level. We have been quite clear that we want to twist and spend the money for what is most important. That's why it's right that we do more than double public consumption. It's because we want that money to be used for school and care. So this is a wild policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e413	Interestingly, many European countries are now looking at Norway and the Nordic countries to learn from our success. They do not look to Norway and the Nordic countries primarily to learn from our welfare policy, but they look to Norway and the Nordic countries to learn from our labour market policy and our industrial policy. It seems that Halvorsen and Stoltenberg look to other European countries to learn from their failure. What we see is that the government is now removing the instruments that have created a positive development in Norway, and it's not that it's just related to tax relief. It is also linked to a policy that has created low interest rates, a competitive krone price and a strong commitment to research, development and innovation. I record that in the budget now presented, it is cut to 65 million. kr in research and development. To the Norwegian Research Council, to the Space Programme, to Innovation Norway, it is cut. Also to SIVA and not least to the Research Fund, there is a huge cut. This is now the seed for the welfare of the future. When the right is concerned with value creation, it is precisely because we want to secure and extend welfare in Norway. I registered that Stoltenberg said in the election campaign: not a penny in tax relief until the care of the elderly shines. But it was obviously a small exception, and it's for the members of LO and for agriculture, because in this budget, LO's members get tax relief, and then the farmers get tax relief. However, for all other income groups, this implies a higher level of taxation. Interestingly, a government where the Central Party is represented, which has always been occupied by national ownership, that Norwegians should own Norwegian companies, increases the tax, the peculiar tax on Norwegian private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e422	Since it is the first time in the history of the world that a female finance minister is presenting the state budget, I am so ready to say that this is a historic day – not just because it is the first time SV is going to use the finance debate to defend a government's draft budget, but because this budget means a clear breach of the right hand turn of policy that has been going on for decades. This draft budget indicates a change in the direction of Community priority rather than tax relief to the richest. We're starting the escalation of the municipal economy that we've all promised. Those who have followed a few years will remember that it is SV who has prioritised the municipalities the highest in every budget. That's why we're especially pleased that we've managed to make this promise come true. Under the previous government, less money was consistently allocated than was necessary to meet the challenges of increasing numbers of people in this country, and more of us getting older. The right-hand side of his answer was cut in the number of teachers for our kids, cut in the elderly care of our parents and grandparents, and a huge ideological outsourcing and privatisation that has failed in many municipalities. Our answer is to choose another way: choosing a better economy for community, rather than a skewed wealth that increases the differences between people. This is going to mean a lot around the municipalities. In some places it means a greater investment in school and care for the elderly and fighting poverty, in other municipalities it means less cut than they have now had to take. In any case, there will be a difference, and I should like to see the Right, Christian People's Party or Left rapporteur who would say no rather prefer the Bondevik government budget. Of course, in some places it will mean the repayment of debts on the investments in schools and hospitals that have been necessary. In any case, it means an increased commitment to well-being in the coming years. This is the first step. We're starting to convert the tax system in a more fair direction, where those with the lowest income at work get more tax relief and those with the largest dividends have to contribute more to the community. The removal of the tax on dividends on shares was the single biggest reason why differences increased during the 1990s. We noticed that after the previous Labour Party government introduced this tax, the Bondevik government was not removed until they came to power. The cost of removing that tax was twice the cost of the tax, and the tax charges to the richest were twice the cost of helping the poor. It's a development we're going to turn around. We want to put more effort into reducing poverty. It should be noted that we have the power. Those with the lowest income should also notice it. They'll get more. The minimum deductions for those with the lowest income shall be increased. We're going to have a better follow-up to those who have drug problems, and those who, after leaving prison, need training to get to work and to a life without drugs and crime. We're going to help those people, so that they get a better start. When I was born, the leave was shorter, and less than 10 pst. of the children were in kindergarten. That's why I got a T-shirt where it said, "Free daycare for all children." We're on our way! We have to fulfill the promises, both from Soria Moria and from the election campaign. We start by investing 1.3 billion kroner in kindergarten development and lowering prices to $2,250 from 1 January 2006 because this is something we have been fighting for for for 30 years, and this is something we have committed ourselves to. Now priority must be given to the environment. We're going to start a bet on the development of CO2 management that allows us to get gas power plants that do not emit CO2 as soon as possible. We're going to start a bet on the railway, which has been neglected for a long time. Everyone knows that getting a few to a sustainable transport policy is a need to get a stake on rail and other public transport. Motorway development around the big cities is not what solves problems. We're going to put in place the cultural promise, so that it becomes more of what makes life worth living. This budget is characterised by efforts to create more jobs, to fight for better conditions for the unemployed, for community, for justice, to fight against poverty and for a better environment. It is the first step towards a society of more solidarity and in view of future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e450	Never have so many been in work today. The free space shows a marked decline. Business is optimistic. All of them, most of them experience security for their own economy. There is a broad consensus that the Co-operation Government has provided sound economic policies in its time of government. When LO's chief economist in the finance committee's hearing said that we now have relatively little leave, I find it difficult to find a more credible witness of truth in that way. The new government is therefore taking over the staf stick at a very favourable time – yes, at a very favourable time, some might think. It should have a good back to carry good days, it's called. It will be a challenge for this government in general and, I believe, for the Minister of Finance in particular. We are therefore pleased in the Christian People's Party that the Minister of Finance has stressed that the rule of action and the framework for the use of oil money are fixed. However, a good back is also required to balance the use of public finances, not least in a situation where there may be competition for labour. Local authorities will receive major transfers. Many will experience positive, isolated. But neither do the municipalities live in an economic vacuum. For them, a stable economic policy is also crucial over time. This relates to the tax intake, which is a low interest rate. An important measure here is to get an approximately equal marginal tax on share income and employee income. We are concerned with a well-functioning business and, not least, with the success of family-run businesses, which are a carrier in many parts of our country. That's why there's unfortunately bad news in some of the finance ministers that came out today. A reduced wage deduction is granted for self-employed persons. The property tax is not reduced as it should, and there is a reduced level of the screening rate. In addition – and this is a particular challenge for the Minister of Finance: How can one defend the fact that the improvement of depreciation rates is zeroed on machines that business has been asking for for a long time? In addition, painful cuts are made in research and innovation. It doesn't promise good for the future. The Government declaration was in favour of cooperation with other parties. We took that to us in the Christian People's Party. The greater the disappointment when, in a situation where you spend more money, more public dollars, you make cuts that are very provocative – not just for the Christian People's Party, but I'll believe too many around in the whole country. The Minister of Finance mentioned Soria Moria. I think a lot of families with children don't see anything Soria Moria in what is presented today. It is a breach of promises in the case of cash support. It was supposed to be peaceful until we had full babysitting. Today’s proposal cut the cash support by several hundred million dollars. The co-operation measures are cut and the value project ‘Shall-Do not’ is deleted. I'm beginning to understand why the word ‘family’ has also been deleted from the departmental designation. In the school sector, primary schools were cut by 15 pst. The capital contribution to the post-secondary schools shall be deleted. Private higher education institutions, e.g. part of nursing training is cut by a total of 14,6 million. kr. I also have to ask, where has the Center Party been when these cuts have happened in the Government? The Church is also a clear loser in this budget. Church Joint Council is cut, and the capital grant to the Friars is deleted. Then I notice that the deduction from the union quota is increasing. I'm sure there's a lot of people who like it. The more strange it becomes, the reverse of the increase in the tax credit to non-governmental organisations, the voluntary sector, which otherwise holds the Soria Moria declaration high.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e467	I think perhaps that the representative Hans Olav Syversen is now presenting something that is actually a continuation of important measures at today's level, but with a slight reversal of the additions that the Bondevik II government presented. So I don't think the representative Syversen from the Christian People's Party should look so dark on this. In my view, this should be a good budget also for representatives of the Christian People's Party. It is a good budget because it is a better distribution profile in this budget than in the budget of the representative of Syversen's own party presented to the Stortinget. We have managed to implement the tax reform so that the distribution profile is far, far better than the Bondevik II government provided, but at the same time that business can do well to do so. So I'll ask the opposition to be very careful to claim that this budget is going to increase interest rates or to strengthen the dollar rate, because there's no evidence for that. There is no material evidence that this budget – where we spend the same oil money as the Bondevik government and turn around and make other political priorities – would itself increase interest. So I'll just ask the opposition to stop. Of course, it might be tempting to do that, but it could be that someone was listening to the opposition, who shouldn't be listening to the opposition. I'll ask the markets to listen to me instead. So this is about depreciation rates and the chocolate charge. It is true that the chocolate levy was proposed to be removed by the Bondevik Government from 1 December 2006. We're going to take that debate really seriously. The chocolate charge applies to all chocolate consumed, not only in Norwegian chocolate. But both that and what we do about the sugar charge are things we have to look at. With regard to the depreciation rate on machines, there is also a tax relief for business of over DKK 1 billion with effect for 2007, which we need to look at, because now business is doing quite well. At a later stage, it is a proposal that can be re-examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e478	I simply felt that the Minister of Finance did not respond to what I was raising, but was in the process of proceeding with a response to the previous main speakers from the opposition. I have not mentioned the chocolate fee with one sentence, e.g. It is certainly true that the markets are listening to the Minister of Finance. But the challenge is whether they are satisfied with what they hear and how they react to it. Whether they're listening to the opposition or not, we're getting back to it. I haven't said that this budget needs to give a higher interest rate. Then the Minister of Finance must have heard wrong. On the contrary, I said, and famously, that you don't spend more oil money than the Bondevik government provided. But I expect – and I would like to have a confirmation from the Minister of Finance – that she agrees that we must balance the use of public funds if we come into a situation where there is competition for the labour force. Does the Minister of Finance agree or disagree? So finally, isn't it a breach of promise that the Government is now making to the families of children, who have believed in the promises of the government parties that the cash support should not be moved until full child-care coverage has been achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e489	The red-green government has had the car in the workshop. The share of Norway has been overstayed. There's been a limited amount of time. Although we have had money on the book, the spending framework for what we were going to do has been fixed. We've done a lot. The brakes have been adjusted so that we have reduced the growth of private consumption. The Community, through a greatly improved local economy, is a priority. Through a cooperative reverse operation, where the richest of us pay more into the community in the form of taxes, we are able to prioritise a strong commitment to local welfare. It's the school, the care of the elderly, the road maintenance, the culture and the economic development where people live, that's a priority. But the good brakes have to be maintained. It requires a continuous improvement in efficiency and that the leadership of the municipality is very pleased with its own pay supplements in the forthcoming wage settlement. We have replaced parts in the steering shaft. After four years with many right-wing swings on poor highways with poor performance, the situation was poor. This provides a basis for more optimism in District Norway and a better distribution between people, professions and parts of the country. A significant effort on the national road network with better coverage, cheaper ferries and increased axle loads on some bridges will benefit large parts of our goods-producing business and the inhabitants. We have started to put some new instruments in the car. The government announces a new orientation in broadband policy. Broadband for all households and at equal prices is an instrument for removing distance costs and giving more opportunities to work where they live. This is modernising Norway. We've got a better backseat, so that people who usually sit at the bottom of the table will meet a better everyday life. We have improved child-care through considerably more and cheaper kindergartens. The cultural offer is strengthened by the fact that the radio is becoming more versatile, and that after long working days we have more to look forward to. It is clear that there will be new and extensive service on this car in the years to come. The engine must have a check-up so that we will be able to face an increasingly brutal international competition from that industry in the future. And in Norway, we need to secure the competitive business and workers in these industries. We have come a long way in planning what we should give priority to engine improvements. Sectoral review of key product-producing industries, as well as ensuring Norwegian wage and working conditions for all those working in Norway, is very important. The centre party can conclude that we have had budget penetration for two of our three main issues in the election campaign. In our third field, nutrition and transportation, we've come a little bit on our way. This is a budget that creates the basis for new optimism in District Norway, better well-being for people most and greater inter-ethnicism, occupations and regions of the country. But there's a lot left. In our further work, the State Budget Committee's report on increased long-termity in government budgeting will serve as a basis for a review of a possible distinction between operation and long-term investment in the government's budgetary policy. This is important. Furthermore, the Government will work to develop new governance tools and models in economic policy, both nationally and globally. This will give many people hope that the state will act so that more people feel that they have the state's and society's security. It's unusually important in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e512	I think the other representative, Lundtigen, has forgotten to say that in his proposal, the Government doubles the annual fee on the tractor and mopeds. [[muttering in the hall]] Let's be so excited in such a day that when a new finance minister enters the pulpit for the first time, it's a big day for a finance minister. We're big enough, I think, on all sides of the table to rejoice that the Minister of Finance has such a big day. The roles change, and I'm back on the well-known Balkan corner of the financial committee. The last time I was there, I sat there with the then big-time representative Kristin Halvorsen, and we did everything we could to see how we could get the nets short for the then finance minister Jens Stoltenberg. That's what the roles are. I stand and reflect on the Minister of Finance's speech today: What was said, and what was not said? The last thing might be just as interesting to stop a little bit by. I noticed that the Minister of Finance spent very little time talking about how to create values. It was said very much that the values should be shared, and that is well and good. But once again, the old slogan of the Workers' Party, which we always heard from the finance ministers of the Workers' Party when they were standing on the platform, was that we had to put emphasis on creating to share, and here it has to be a balance. And I don't think that balance was particularly good today. But it should also be said that never has a newly appointed Minister of Finance got to go to the pulpit of the Storting and present a budget with an economy that goes so well and has so many opportunities – at least in the short term – to be able to share a lot, without having the greatest focus on creating it. I think it's dangerous, it's short-term, and I hope the Minister of Finance will help fix it on later occasions. I think the weakness of this budget proposal is that it does not answer any very important questions: how are we going to increase the country's income side, and how are we going to renew the income side by making revenue in other ways? The new Minister of Industry, for example, has been delighted to start a government period of 50,000 more enterprises as Minister of Industry than it was four years ago. But it's not enough to rest there. He has to deliver the staf stick in four years, I hope, and have created another 50,000 more businesses, because that's what we need. Is this budget a policy for it? I haven't been able to see it that far. Another important question that needs to be answered by the country's finance minister is how to ensure that we have enough people in this country who have money and who will dry and create new jobs at high risk. Is this budget a pat on the shoulders of the people who are going to put their money in new jobs and businesses? I have not seen it clapped on my shoulder. That's why I want to make the early reflection of this budgetary procedure that this is a sad day for the many who are going to create values – I'm going to come back to research. It's e.g. a tax tightening of DKK 6.4 billion. In isolation, it is possible to carry for those who have money. I'm sure they can pay for it in 2006. But what are the signals? What kind of dynamics is it for the evolution we need to get? In addition, there is an increase in marginal tax that makes the strain on taxes on labour income and investment income increase and open up some of the intrusive adjustments that we saw in the past when we deleted the small-scale divisional model. And then you might say, hey, look, it's all about the old stuff. SV's leader, now as Minister of Finance, is talking about kindergartens and distribution, and the Left's leader, now as an opposition politician, is talking about small businesses and value creation. But when I went to the Stortinget today, I was absolutely sure that one thing was going to praise me, one thing was going to be good, and that was that we were going to be a common team and beat a good blow for something that both Left, SV and most people in this room have agreed to, namely, knowledge -- to seek new knowledge and research. They even have their own new ministerial name. And then we got what was perhaps the biggest shock when the budget was presented today, namely a cut in the Research Fund of 25 billion kroner. And I ask the question, why? So you can say: OK, that's underlined money – you can correct it with increased appropriations when you get to 2007 and impact. But it is a very strong signal for Research Norway that I would like the Minister of Finance to use the next 2 minutes to correct, so that the Minister of Knowledge can also have good days to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e529	I get to thank the representative Lars Sponheim for starting his voice. We've spent a lot of late nights together on the corner of the finance committee, and we're probably going to spend a lot of time here too. Let me start where Sponheim ends. It is quite obvious when I look carefully at the budget that the Bondevik II government left, that something was done in the last turn, after he realized that he lost a choice, for example. I'm going to shave the secondary, which is what you're going to have as an extra. It belongs in the category of drag tricks. To increase the Research Fund by DKK 25 billion more than the government party itself went into, belongs also to the category of drag tricks from the government that went into it. The research fund is increasing by 14 billion kroner from this year to next year. It is a very good increase in the Research Fund, and it is in line with what the majority of people voted for. Then I think the representative Sponheim should not look so dark on the situation of Norwegian business, because we are going to have a significant growth in employment next year, estimated at 22,000 people. Part of this is going to be in the municipalities, and more hands are needed. But that's a good situation for Norwegian business. It's going to continue. The most important job this government does in this context is to provide a budget that has the same rigour as the Bondevik budget. In addition, the markets know that the game and the spectacle in Stortinget are not starting now. This is a budget that has a majority. This is a budget that is essentially going to go through just as proposed. It provides predictability both in terms of interest rates and in terms of interest rates, which will be a major benefit to Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e538	The President will assume that the term ‘towed tricks’ does not fit in the storeroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e541	No, and I'm not going to use the well-known expression that on itself knows someone else, because it doesn't fit in the main hall either. But let me say that, at least, that the advantage must now be taken by the Government, that they have a majority in this Chamber, at least if the Minister of Finance succeeds in keeping everyone in this Chamber, that there may be a small amount of money needed to negotiate a majority solution in the Grand Duchy. At least it has to be a bit of the effect of a majority government, as we have been promised. So I'd like to confirm by saying that I'm not using this opportunity to speak up the interest rate from the opposition. I don't think that's the actual basis for saying that. The current Prime Minister, former opposition leader Jens Stoltenberg, said about the same thing when the interest rate made the first little jump under the previous government. I've registered that some professionals are starting to talk about red-green interest rates. I think it's too early to talk about that. I record that there is an equal amount of oil money being used. I am enough of the opinion that the arrangement of this draft budget seems somewhat more expansive than what the Bondevik II government's draft budget is doing, but perhaps not more than that we do not yet have reason to lift our finger too much. So what's the political craft in what's going on? Basically, there are three sizes that have changed. There is a significant increase in the number of municipalities — well and well if the adverse effects are not too high for other reasons. It concerns kindergarten prices — well and good, important SV win. And then the tax level is significantly reversed for enterprises, but also for ordinary employee incomes. It's roughly the three major changes that happen. So it's always fun to study. It's a little too early to conclude with who's the winners and losers when you've had a fight around the government table. I see that the Council of State is smiling, and I have already registered that he has very good reason for doing so. I have registered that the Centre Party has been good at getting good solutions. The center party are good dealers: if it's a little sunny, they get high houses. It's always like this, too. But I would say that I had been very concerned about going into everyday life with this budget and being Minister of Industry and Minister of Knowledge in the sitting government. They have not got the best basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e554	I get to thank you for this round of position and opposition. I think the opposition came about where I expected it. There is a clear new orientation in the 2006 budget presented by this government in relation to the budget of the government following the elections. And the obvious reorientation is that we're moving in the tax laws that Bondevik promised. We're taking a little bit of increased taxes from 2005, and we're using it on the community that voters want to be strengthened, because the big paradox for most people is that a country as rich as ours does not make sure to spend the money on what's most important. We know that we are not quite in the port of it, but it would have been very worrying if we now leaned back and thought that this was just cheering, after working for a little more than three weeks. We are impatient in areas on which we have not been able to get completely into port, but we have the level of ambition in place in relation to the Soria Moria declaration. That means we've started now and we're going to keep going. Let me take some of the objections that have come from the parties in the government that has resigned, especially as regards industrial policy. Firstly, there is no general cut in research in this budget. There is a re-priority on the Ministry of Industry budget to create room for other business policy initiatives, which are going to be very long-term. For example, it is important to put in place the net pay scheme. Many representatives – not only from the government parties but also from the opposition – believe that it is absolutely necessary for us to continue to have Norwegian seafarers. It will also be the case for Norwegian business that the efforts made in the transport sector – even if we are not fully targeted – even though we know that we need to have many billions of dollars in this field during this ageing period if we are to be able to achieve the goals we have set on the railways and on the road – will be something that improves the opportunities for business in the districts. It is an important and essential industrial policy. So to what's most important, anyway, is investment in people. Yes, that's what this budget is doing first and foremost. This budget invests primarily in people. When the local government budgets increase, the municipalities will have the opportunity to do the job that we trust they can do, if they get the money to do it, namely to bet on care and on knowledge. The most important upgrade in relation to school – and there I know, with a little greeting to Sponheim, that they also have a great heart rate – must be that School-Norway now sees that we are not in front of new rounds with extensive cuts again. Now it's going to be possible to get enough resources to see each and every kid. If we do that, we'll be able to invest in knowledge for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e569	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on changes to St.prp. No 1 for 2005–2006, on the 2006 state budget, is being provided for treatment in a subsequent meeting. – This is deemed to be adopted. For the following cases, the President will propose that Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure be waived, so that there is a vote on each case. The President will believe that in this case it will be more practical, as he believes that matters will be unanimous. [[Uro in the hall]] The President allows himself to point out that the Storting meeting has not been lifted. If the state councils remain at their seats or leave the hall, that would be an advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e591	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e648	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e710	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e784	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e896	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e964	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e1032	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e1100	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e1139	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e1198	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e1261	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-10.ana.ud1464e1367	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
