ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e48	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Åslaug Hagastatsrådet Øystein Djupedalstatsråd Bjarne Håkon Hanssen The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e67	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The central government and some state politicians are now pressing for a two-year extension of the term of office. The municipal minister said to the newspaper on Monday that the government seriously evaluates this proposal. On what basis were the Government and the Stortinget to extend a term of office for politicians who have already been elected? It's not the Stortinge that has chosen the county, but the people in the individual counties. They have been elected for four years, assuming that they will meet the judges of the electorate in 2007. Dropping the county election in 2007 will be putting democracy out of play. The whole of this regional reform is now becoming increasingly undemocratic. First, the Government cancels an investigation into the need for the county council, and then it considers cancelling the elections for the county councils in 2007, and the voters were not allowed to know about the content of the regional reform before this decision. We can therefore risk a major reform in the management of Norway, without the voters being told why. They may be cut off from voting in the 2007 county elections, and they may not be able to express their opinion on this reform through a decision-making process. One has to be quite far from Norway to find examples of politicians extending the term of office of other politicians. But the argument they use, that they themselves are doing such a good job that it is too expensive to ask the voters again to give them a mandate, is quite recognizable. I have to ask the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs if it is such that the Government seriously assesses this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e80	This is actually a question I'm very happy to get, not least in the light of today's comment in the newspaper. Let there be no doubt about what is my principle attitude to this question. It is quite clear that it would be unfortunate to extend a term of office. That's my starting point, that's my principal point of view, and that's my party's principal point of view. The government shall deal with this in a proper manner. The statement in the Newspaper came as a consequence of the fact that many of the county rapporteurs at a meeting that I took the initiative indicated that they thought it would be a good solution to extend the current term of office for the county councils. I listen to what the county rapporteurs say, but I have not heard any objections from the county rapporteurs that involve anything other than practical problems. That's why I'm glad to see that my principle position is on track, and it's that it would be unwise to extend a term of office, and that it's democratically problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e91	There must be reason to ask the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs if it means that the Government has failed to assess this at all, because I understand that there are quite a number of arguments that are both good and practical, because it is cheaper to extend the term of office. To put it this way: there were good arguments that it was both more practical and cheaper to extend the previous ageing period too, especially for Norway, but that does not mean that there is something particularly democratic to do so. So I hope that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs can now, once and for all, confirm that it will not be appropriate to extend the term of office of the county councils. The fact that the county rapporteurs can imagine sitting for two years longer than they are chosen for should not surprise neither the municipal minister nor the rest of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e98	It's true, as the representative Höie says, that there are a lot of people in the municipal and county systems who have thought it would be a good idea to extend the term. At least you've raised that issue. So I can just repeat that my principle view of this is that it will be unwise, and that it is not in line with our democratic traditions to extend a period. People have been chosen for a period of time in the sense that when the period is over, you can throw them if you think they haven't done a good enough job. The situation is that the Government has not finally addressed this question. We're going to do that as fast as we can. I am listening to the practical, economic objections that come from another team. I'm actually experiencing that is my duty. These county rapporteurs aren't anybody, and they come from a lot of different parties – let me also underline it. But my position on this is very clear: in principle, I think it would be wrong to extend a period for which people are elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e107	There will be three follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e110	It is in itself very alarming that the Central Party, which is so busy with local democracy, should allow elected representatives to sit for a period of time without allowing the people to say their own in 2007. That's one side of it. The second is that the Center Party has now reached a compromise in the Red-Green Government to build a new county municipality from 2010, which most people are not at all concerned with. A new county council in 1976, which will deprive the primary municipality of power and power, is thus the purpose of the centre party now. I wonder how the Council of State will convey this message when the Central Party is so concerned with local democracy and the ability of the primary municipalities to rule in their own reir. Now when the new county municipality is to be established, how much of the power in the municipalities is to be transferred to these new county municipalities from 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e119	With regard to the question of a possible extension of the election to the county council beyond 2007, the representative has heard my principal view, and I expect that to be respected. On the issue of how many levels of government we are going to have in Norway, there is no doubt that there is disagreement in the Storting on whether we are going to have three or two levels of government. To this end, the Government believes that there should be three levels of government in Norway. We are committed to shifting power from the state to the regional level, also to the municipal level. All of this is to be reviewed in the context of the administrative reform that will enter into force on 1 January 2010. Our objective is clear: we need to strengthen local democracy, and we need to shift power from state to regional and, if necessary, further, to local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e127	Gunn Berit Gärde - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e130	Although I am a county representative, I am happy with the rest of the Left that the municipal minister has now given up extending the current membership period. But the left has also recorded that the municipal minister will not evaluate the county council, but intends to go straight on a decision to form larger units. Will the Minister for Local Affairs take the initiative to include the experience of the unit state experiment in the assessment when it comes to finding a form of governance in the new regions? More and Romesdal are running a pilot project in which the county and county functions have been merged, and this attempt to be very successful both in terms of greater efficiency and in terms of interaction between municipalities and individuals and the county. It would be interesting to see whether the mayor will evaluate this form of governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e137	With regard to the county municipality, few levels have been identified as much in recent years as this very intermediate level, the county council. There are a number of investigations on the table, and it is a fact that in all these major investigations carried out in recent years – whether we are talking about the District Commission, the Impact Committee or others – the conclusion is clear. We need three levels of government in Norway, and that's what the government is based on. Now, when we decide which functions should lie at the regional level – we have not said anything about how large these regions should be, we are going to come back to it – and when we are going to assess the content of this regional level, we will take all the investigations that are available with us in this work. We will also take with us all the practical experience on the table, for example. the unit density of More and Romsdal. I can promise the representative that we will take over all the knowledge that exists, and there is a terrible amount of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e142	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e145	I am pleased that the Minister of State has now expressed his principle view. I also hope that the Government will live up to its motto that one can act, not just negotiate, that things should go so quickly, and that the Government can also send out a signal about what is its overall, principled view of this, and take the life of the undemocratic idea that we should not make elections, but only prolongation of parliamentary periods. But there are several democratic issues related to the establishment of regions. Firstly, the municipal minister has chosen not to carry out the democratic evaluation that was part of the evaluation of the functioning of the county council. Secondly, the Government has not said anything about the democratic anchoring of establishing regions and new borders. Then my question will be: has the Minister of State planned to draw a map of Norway, to carry out coercive mergers? Or does she intend to carry out a process where those affected, including the municipalities and the inhabitants, get their opinion on where to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e154	It's true, as the former municipal minister suggests, that we stopped an evaluation process that the previous government wanted to start right before we had to join. The reason why we did that was simply because we thought it was wasted resources to go into new evaluations, because there are so many evaluations from before. This is about making some decisions and accepting to do what we know. There's going to be a lot of excitement around, but we have to make decisions about how we want to move power from state to regional and local level. Those decisions would not dare the previous government to make. We take responsibility for getting this in place. We're going to do it in such a way that we include all of those that are to be included in the process. Now we're going to go through and see which problems are going to be moved from state to regional level. We want to have a process of our own in relation to the Storting. And we'll probably also consult with everyone involved. When we agree on the problems, we're going to draw maps. If we don't agree on the problems first, we won't get along with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e159	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e162	My main question is to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. A few days ago, we were able to read in the newspaper about a 40-year-old who was arrested and sent out of Norway. He had applied for asylum several years ago, but disappeared from reception before the application was completed. Since then he has been illegally here in Norway, has committed more than 100 different crimes, and has been convicted six times. Violence, threats, fraud, theft, and drug crime are on his scroll. Per. Today it is officially operated by the UDI with a number of more than 20 000 located in that country with illegal residence. These are people who can only feed on crime, illegal acts. This is very worrying. In addition, we have many asylum seekers in this country with unknown identity. The Progress Party expects something actually to be done in relation to having more stringent control over these people, and then you have to do some action. We have long been in favour of closed receptions for asylum. Persons representing a safety risk, who have been denied the asylum application, who have previously escaped from asylum recipients and who are not least without a known identity, should be placed in closed reception. My question is: does not the Council of State realise that the only sound management of asylum seekers representing a safety risk is to place them in closed reception?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e175	I want to start by saying that I share the representative's concerns about these challenges. It is clear that in many ways it is demanding for us that we have many people in the country who do not have a legal residence and who should be out. Therefore, of course, it is important that we work to intensify the work of getting these people out. But we are facing some practical, very clear challenges, because many of those in the country who are not supposed to be here are practically unable to get out. Many countries have policies that, if the person who is not going to travel to this country cooperates on leaving, they refuse to accept them. An example is Iran, which has a policy that, if there is no written confirmation that he has applied for travel documents voluntarily, Iran refuses to accept them. Then we're in the situation that many people who shouldn't be here are staying in the country even if we want them to go out. And of course, the question is, what do we do with these people now? What the government has done is that it has been said that you agree with the previous government that we are going to set up what the previous government called an exit center and what we call a waiting reception. This will be referred by the State to all those who have received a final refusal to stay and who do not cooperate in the field of departure. So it's true, as the representative says, that this is not to be seen as a custody/internment. But the situation is that we have no basis in Norwegian law to store/internalize people on the basis that the representative suggests. That's why the situation is what it is. But, as I said, I therefore agree that this is a significant challenge for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e182	I hear what is said here from the Council of State. The waiting reception prescribed by the Government is nothing but an open reception. It will continue to pose the same safety risks as today. Then there will be little action in relation to the challenges. We believe that it is quite important, very important, imperative of power, to be able to have these people in a reception where they are prevented from committing criminal acts in society. Doesn't the Council of State see that this is something you can do? If a law change is the only thing that's going to happen, yes, it's just to make that law change. This is fully possible to take up and process in this room, it is possible to make the changes that are to be made and get the closed reception solution that we prescribe.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e191	In fact, I believe that this hall should not adopt a law that says that if a person refuses to apply for a passport, then there is a criminal act that will lead to conviction and imprisonment. I believe that this is the wrong reaction form. That is what we are talking about, among other things. Talking about this. So if an Iranian refuses to apply for passports, then this court will have to adopt a law where this is considered a criminal act for which the courts of Norway will be sentenced to prison. This cannot be a matter for immigrants only, it must be an expression of how the law is to be developed, and what is to be the basis for imprisonment, in the view of the representative. I disagree with the medicine described, but I am concerned that a medicine needs to be developed that can work better than the one we have today. This is why, for example: the Government in proposals for the government budget for the following year also increased the budget by 10 million. kr to strengthen work on leaving.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e197	There will be three follow-up questions – first Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e200	There is no doubt that we have challenges in the field of immigration, but I agree with the Council of State that we have to look at the individual cases here, not be general, and not at all cut everyone over one comb. It is important to be aware that far from all asylum seekers are criminals. There are many who are being rejected, and the Bondevik II government has taken various measures, depending on groupings. Now the Stortinget is about to treat an exit centre. The Bondevik II government started work on reporting obligations for those who may be part of a crime scene. Will the Council of State address this work on the introduction of reporting obligations for those who may be in a risk zone and also follow up with any other necessary security measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e205	I agree, as I said on the previous question, that this is a major challenge. That's why I'm very concerned about being positive and open to all kinds of suggestions that can bring us further into both getting people who aren't going to be in the country, out of the country, and, not least, ensuring the most control related to the situation while they're in the country. I have also registered that there is an ongoing work related to the obligation to notify. I will go into it thoroughly without being able to conclude today. After all, the previous government started working on a full review of the law on foreigners. That's what we're doing. It gives us the opportunity to have a comprehensive, continuous discussion of this whole important field of the year coming, and I look forward to working closely with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e212	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e215	It is positive that the Government is following up the policy of the Bondevik II government in relation to immigration and integration. The Christian People's Party believes it is great that the work with an exit centre continues. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important that we achieve a good integration policy for minorities. We know that unemployment among immigrants in Norway is three times higher than in the rest of the population. A foreign name in a job application may be enough to reject the application. There is no doubt that there is a need for action to promote inclusion and to prevent social unrest in Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that the IA agreement, the agreement on inclusive working life, should focus in particular on including people with a minority background in working life. We believe that there is a need for an action plan for integration. We also believe that increased access to temporary employment is necessary, as it will lower the threshold into the labour market for many of those currently excluded. We believe that it can give jobseekers with a minority background a greater opportunity for work. My question is: will the Council follow up the work of the IA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e222	Let me begin by saying that I was not satisfied with the Bondevik government's draft budget in relation to, for example. integration. It had a manifest and significant weakness, that of not reintroducing the integration grant for those on family reunification to people who have been granted humanitarian residence. There was a significant weakness in the budget of the previous government, and therefore I am very pleased that the government has found room to reintroduce that integration grant. It's also very important to get people to work, because it makes a lot of people join the introduction program, which seems to be a very good way out into work. I can promise the representative, Mr Tørersdal, that we will look closely at the issues she is dealing with in the context of the IA Agreement and look at possible measures there, and also look at a wide range of other measures through an action plan for greater integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e227	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e230	In its first response, the Council of State said that we had to have a legal basis to internalise asylum seekers who have been finally rejected. This is wrong, because if what the Council of State says is right, this government is running a crime. Today, we are interning asylum seekers on the Gardermo because they pose a risk to society. The aim of the Advance Party is to extend the type of detention of asylum seekers that has been definitively refused and which are initially illegal immigrants in Norway. In addition, the Council of State and this Government shall send to Drammen in an open camp in the largest press area near Oslo all these asylum seekers who have been finally rejected — and there are risk persons among them. Yes, at least there's no less risk, because there are criminals among them, and now they're all going to be sent to the east. There is an opening: the UN has clearly said that it is allowed to internalise these people who have been finally rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e235	To the last time that the Sandberg representative was in, I would say that I think we have a little different contacts in the UN, the Government and the Sandberg, in that way. First of all, which is the main theme of the representative Sandberg, namely that today the police have custody facilities on the Gardermo, I would say that the use of the custody facilities on the Gardermoen is linked to people who have been prepared to leave, so we have arranged for their departure. If the police then apprehend people in connection with their exit, they can keep them in custody in a camp at the Gardermoen before being sent. However, it is not a legal opportunity in Norway today to internalise people simply because they have finally been refused an asylum application, if they are not returnable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e242	Let's move on to the next main question. The President allows himself to ask the representatives to stand on the platform until the answer is given, and also reminds us that when the red lamp goes out, then the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e247	I want to ask the Minister of Knowledge a question. It is not free for many people who have become alarmed after the new government took over, not least a number of performances by the Minister of Knowledge that affect important values laid down in our cultural heritage. According to the newspapers, state councils should have said that it is a mistake to believe that parents are the best parents to raise children. In the week that passed, the Council of State went out against the table bean — he wanted the table bean out of school — and stated that the table bean is not in line with what Norwegian school should be like. We recorded that he moderated a little later. Then he has announced that the Christian anchoring in the school should be reviewed through the purpose paragraph. In the budget presented by the Government, conscious choice of values is made — choices that are perceived as an attack on religious freedom and the right of parents to choose training for their children. This can be seen through, for example: reduced transfers to independent schools and to private colleges, schools which naturally occupy an important place in the education system. This list I could have done a lot longer, but I won't do it. I guess it's not so strange that people outside react and ask what's going on. Are we going into a new time, a kind of a valuable line break? In the election campaign, the three government parties stressed the importance of a new course for the country. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is whether this campaign against important values in our cultural tradition means a new course. And what's next played out by the Minister of Knowledge in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e259	Let me first say that there is no crusade from our government regarding these questions. I am happy to have this question, because it can also help to clarify some of the misunderstanding that might be there. Of course, I am of the opinion – and I think all Norwegian parents are – that it is the parents who are going to raise their own children. So I've said positive about the kindergarten as a supplement to this. Many of us who have had children in kindergarten know that kindergarten is a good educational offer for our children. But of course it does not exclude – and it has never been in my mind – that it is not the parents who have the primary responsibility for this. There is now a debate about this, about child education and the role of society and the role of parents. It's a debate that I think in many ways is positive. It also has a clear value anchoring, and it has anchoring in this modern society of which we are part. Just let me say that this debate is positive. As such, I am not going to participate in it, but stressing the importance of kindergarten has been important to me in the position I have. It doesn't stand – let me just underline it again – instead of the parents' natural primary responsibility for, duty and not least pleasure in raising their own children. Then the representative is also in on this with table beans. The question of prayer is not a play either, it is an answer to a question from the World Times newspaper. Of course, the word "ban", which I saw on the first page, has not been in my mouth. Daily prayer by the UN Committee will be seen as a religious service. It is a recommended advice that we have received. But table prayer as a message of knowledge, along with religious songs and other religious activities as part of our cultural heritage, part of our tradition, part of what we are of course going to pass on to our children at school, is something else. That means that religious activity must then be an alternative for those who do not want it. Of course, table prayers as a message of knowledge are all right, but daily prayers will be served by a lot of people. And that's what I've been saying. Let me also say that this is not reflected in the government's view, for this is nothing special for our government. I would think that any government must have clarified this difference. It may not have been clear in the world's time, but I don't think I should answer that. That'll get the reporter in the World Gang more precise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e270	I thank you for your answer. To take the last one first, this one with table beans, it's probably the way to understand that this really hasn't been a problem out in school. According to the Education Association, no signals have been received indicating that there is a problem. Now we're all aware that our society has changed. We've got a bigger feature of people from foreign cultures, people we're going to respect. But in our country yesterday, one of the well-known leaders of the Muslim communities in Oslo actually said that singing "O you who feed little bird" was a great arrangement. My question in follow-up really also touches a little bit on this with who is to rule. I am pleased that the Council of State says that parents should have a clear responsibility, and that emphasis should be placed on it. But the question is, to what extent should the state and state councils be able to go in and then override what should be the contents of the school, and what priorities should be made — should not parents and teachers be able to do so in cooperation? That's what I'm asking. Can we confirm that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e279	Of course, there should be close cooperation between parents and school. But the entire Norwegian school is anchored in a law, and of course we should ensure compliance with this law. So I agree with what the representative says. I don't think this is a big problem. Nor has it been my business to make it a major problem. On the contrary, I have only answered a question in connection with a legal interpretation of how this can be understood. So I am absolutely convinced that this is best solved in the individual school and in the individual classroom. To the extent that this is perceived as a problem, this should and should also be resolved as far as possible, almost to the students and almost to the classroom. Then I also agree that it is wise and reasonable to learn in the classroom about our cultural heritage and the cultural heritage of others. We have a cultural heritage that is part of the Christian faith. It must be part of the cultural and knowledge dissemination that is part of the school's platform, of course. But there is a difficult balance and a difficult demarcation between what can be service, or what is perceived as service, and what is knowledge dissemination. This is a difficult balance. I believe that the school itself will be able to handle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e286	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jon Hunter Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e289	The Minister of Knowledge has a great responsibility as a provider of value for the entire sector, from kindergartens to universities. Does the Council of State take self-criticism in relation to all the concerned parents and teachers who have now perceived the minister of knowledge so that the minister is wiping out the important Christian values on which Norway is based?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e294	No, of course not. I do not understand that any of what I have said should be to misunderstand. Our starting point in relation to prayer is – as I said in my previous answer – that I have given a clarification on how Norwegian law is to be understood. This one has no political color, this is based on advice given from my office and from the Education Directorate. That means that I mean we're there on a safe ground. But then it is that this needs to be practised as much as possible. That means that it has to be practiced in the classroom, and it has to be practiced in every single school, and I have confidence and faith that this will be solved in a reasonable way. Then the government has said that you have to follow up the State-Church Committee. The selection setting will be set in a short time. It's headed by the former State Council. I know that the Minister of the Church will come back to the Stortinge with what process it should be here. Then it's in the Soria Moria statement that we're going to review the school's purpose paragraph. We're also going to start with that work. But to review the purpose paragraph means that the purpose paragraph is to be part of the tradition and part of the world of which we are part. Here the government has not drawn any conclusions, but a debate on the value anchoring of the school will at all times be a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e301	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e304	It's at least one thing that I think will be very unfortunate. It's if we initially use a debate on the anchoring of values a more multicultural society as an excuse, because it will be perceived as a very negative approach to that kind of question, also for those who have migrated to the country, and for those who are descendants of immigrants in our country. That's why it's very important that we don't use it as a starting point, but rather use our own desire to have a value anchor for what we do, both in school and elsewhere. Then it is important for me to ask the Council of State a question. I can see that it is difficult to take the transition from being pointed opposition policies to being security-oriented position policies that are interpreted in capital letters for any word you say. But there are some signals sent out in the range of what has been said now, which concern the question: is it that some of these questions should actually be resolved locally, should be resolved in the classroom and at parental meetings, should be resolved in dialogue with parents, rather than having a major political debate, or that the Council of State should lead?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e311	I would very much agree that many of these questions are best solved locally, and are to be resolved locally. It's part of the role that parents against school and school against parents should have. It is also stated in the law, that this interaction is to exist, that parents are to engage, and that the school is to involve their parents in this. That is why I agree. That means that when it comes to what I want to assume is a question of prayer, I believe – and I think it is heavy – that there is a legal interpretation of this. That means that the solution to this will be local. Then it is clear that I believe that a debate on the value anchoring of the school is a good debate. Of course, it should be based on our traditions, our cultural tradition, our religious tradition, our history and our culture. At the same time, however, it should also be based on the changing world, Europe and Norway, both by the fact that we have more with different religious backgrounds in Norway and by, for example: The UN and UN human rights have become a major part of our culture by giving them a more dominant place. A debate on value anchoring is a good debate in school, a good debate in the main hall and a good debate in the Norwegian community. I hope that the Stortinget and the Norwegian community will accept this debate without the conclusion being drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e322	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e325	This is a debate on values, and in a debate on kindergartens, the Council of State has agreed with Hillary Clinton. Hillary Clinton writes on page 12 in his book: ‘It takes a village to raise a child.’ She explains that it means that families have to feel good, and that the whole community has to stand up. Doesn't the Council of State see that the value of kids having a good time, of course, includes a kindergarten, which everyone gets that right? Then you might have to wonder how it's going to work, when you first run the maximum price as hard as the new government does. But OK, we all enjoy a kindergarten. But we also admire those who want it, don't we? And the Left also loves those who want it, a longer maternity leave to be at home with the kids. Society means much more in Norwegian than in state. This means, for example: that the "nabokerring" cares, that the family cares, that the grandmother cares, that all adults care! That's what's at the heart of Hillary Clinton's statement. Is it not this social view that the Council of State really intended to express support for, instead of sending out an application that the nursery is the only answer, although I agree that it is an important answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e340	Well, I think this was a very good line from the representative Dørum, simply because it's going to be another village to raise a child. In a village it's full of families, it's full of homes. That means that both aunts, uncles and others should, of course, assist and be responsible for the child. In a common Norwegian town or a common Norwegian town, there are many who are gone by day. That means that my starting point for kindergartens is that children have good contact with children of the same age, so that they can play, learn and develop together. I don't have any moral infections at all. I very much agree that creating good societies is one of the most important things. And making good societies is, of course, also a task for politicians, but it's not primarily a political task. Making good societies is a responsibility that rests on every citizen in this country – everyone should care, get involved, tackle the problems that you see around them, without necessarily bringing everything to the municipal government or the big hall and say that it is the politicians who need to clean up. That's why I want to agree initially: building good societies together we do, and it's primarily an individual task, but it's also a collective task and, most deeply, ultimately, also a political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e352	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e355	My main question goes to the Minister of Knowledge, or the future Minister of Knowledge. I ask the question because becoming a minister of knowledge has an obligation in itself. It undertakes to stand for knowledge. Learning something means there's a minimum of seriousness and commitment in it. Both I and Left have noted with concern how the Minister of Knowledge lost the fight in the Government – we who have some experience, understand how it can happen – about the size of the fund that will create predictability for Norwegian researchers, which is what will actually drive long-term knowledge. Then we experience that the Government is very unclear – and the Minister of Knowledge has tried to save it – saying that everyone who goes to school for 13 years will automatically have access to higher education. At me and at the left it leaves a wonder. Instead of taking up the challenge of upgrading pride in all the secondary schools — that is, all the subjects you are proud of, perhaps especially the crafts, the professions — and instead of taking on the idea that higher education is a commitment, you create ambiguity. The councils have tried to save it by saying that one should not weaken higher education, but he is sitting with a Soria Moria opinion that, to put it mildly, does not represent respect for knowledge, as I see it. In this regard, the debate that we have been going through, the debate on the table, on which we certainly agree, it is clear today, that it is possible to find out locally – instead of a difficult debate, which we need, on the content of the school, on what we are proud of. We know that someone who is proud of something is growing and becoming a member of the village that we talked about instead. At the top of this, we received some strange statements – which were debated, then – about how real science should fit in the entire setup. Is it so that the Minister of Knowledge continues to wonder whether he is going to be Minister of Growth, or does he actually want to become a Minister of Knowledge? Does he want to take inwards a tradition that SV and Left at least in the old days – to say it that way, not so many years ago – had in common, that fighting for knowledge is a struggle for formation, in the sense of education, knowledge and culture? That's what carries a society, that's what makes society become, and carry, a democracy! Is this what the Council of State has chosen as a course, or does it waver because of various forms of pressure, e.g. the pressure from Soria Moria that if you go to school for 13 years, you should in any case be allowed to enter higher education? Is this respect for knowledge, for education and for the sum of education, knowledge and culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e368	It is not accidental that the Stoltenberg government has chosen to rename the Ministry of Knowledge. In it, of course, there is a strong ambition to renovate our entire education system. If you look at the national budget, you will see that there is a plan like Kristin Halvorsen, the first finance minister who has done it, chose to present at the time of the presentation of the supplementary proposition, which shows the country's wealth. The country's wealth is what we have in our hands, and what we have in our heads. To further develop the knowledge that the Norwegian people possess is the best guarantee that we will continue to be a welfare state in the future. This responsibility rests heavily on the Government, and we want to take this responsibility. That is why we have placed responsibility for kindergartens within the Ministry of Knowledge – that is right – as a voluntary start to a lifelong learning cycle. And then, of course, we've gone through everything, and we're going to go through everything. That means that we will strengthen the knowledge of all parts of Norwegian education. It's important. And we will not least strengthen the research, which the representative Dørum is particularly concerned about, and I understand that. It is clear that research, having more knowledge of knowledge production and service production in Norway is the guarantee that we are able to fight low-cost countries for knowledge production and service production. We will take this responsibility. The government also has a broader knowledge view. Knowledge is also reflected in a workplace, in other places where one does not have just the formal vision of knowledge – where one has real competence. Real competence is an infinitely important piece of Knowledge Norway, and we want it to rust up. Here, I also record positive signals from Stortinget, which will also be more a part of and will address how we will ensure that people in the labour market are given knowledge and access to knowledge. Overall, it ranges from adult training to continuing training to how it is to be provided. This we will come back to Stortinget with. Let me say that I feel very convinced and very confident that the Government and the majority of the population here have the same agenda, namely that knowledge is one of the most important areas of activity for our society, regardless of which position you are in, in position, in opposition, or in position inside or outside the schoolwork, at the universities or wherever. It's knowledge that's simply the key to our passing on good society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e381	I know a lot about real skills, because I myself have a degree as a college lecturer in social work through real competence. I had to struggle a little bit to get that. I'm quite surprised when you actually add up to going to school for 13 years, and then you automatically have a study qualification. Everyone knows that there is a light year from little Marius who is struggling in the heels of the poison of Alexander Kielland, or Jonas, whom I have read, to strangling and laboring a little to get by. Everyone knows that you have to do it to get to the day you have made it clear, and then be proud. My main wonder is that the Government, and as the Council of State now does not comment, has this remarkable Soria Moria opinion that might come from the AUF, which assumes that only one has passed 13 years at school, then one is automatically inside. I had been waiting for the answer: we're going to be proud to prepare professional studies, we're going to be proud to take care of higher education. Then comes what I, as a former member of the government, understands how happens, that someone takes 25 billion kroner in the Research Fund from the Minister of Knowledge. What you do then is simply undermine long-termity, which allows researchers to be proud and correct their backs and say, here we have predictability. – These are the challenges of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e388	The fact that Norway remains a knowledge nation is a challenge for the Government, but also a challenge for our society. Let me answer the first question about how to ensure that quality is maintained if you don't have a study qualification or a preparatory line from high school. This is a question we want to address. That means that until the harvest there will be no changes in this. But there are examples already today that show that this can be possible. It is fully possible to go on the electrical line and take a diploma as an electrician and then, through documentation, show that you can enter an engineering course to become an elector engineer. There is now a possibility for adults 25 years of age or older to demonstrate real skills and thus enter a higher education if they have been shown to be qualified. We ask young people to make choices early in life. Young people who make choices early in life may well want to do something else later. We're not going to deprive the youth of the possibility of an academic career or a nurse's education or whatever it may be, if you show yourself qualified. This is our starting point, and we're going to engage in dialogue with universities, colleges, high school, and everyone implicated in finding sensible ways to give young people a new opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e401	There will be three follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e404	The implementation of changes and reforms in the school system is demanding, especially for students and teachers, who work in this system. The promise of knowledge is an important promise for Norwegian school. At the same time, as the representative of Dørum asked questions, we experience a series of reports from the Council of State that create uncertainty about the foundations of parts of the reform. What will the Council of State do now to avoid future uncertainty for those working in the system by not producing a number of different opinions along the way? How will the Government, in cooperation with student organisations and employees, ensure that the Knowledge Promise is now implemented as agreed by the Storting and not through many roundabouts?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e411	At first I have to say that I am wondering about the premises in the questions, because I have not made any announcements that can in any way cause ambiguity around this. What I've done is that I've had a series of meetings with all the implicated people who are associated with the Knowledge Lift in high school. We were uncertain, after much public debate, about the promise of knowledge was ready to be completed the next autumn. That's why I've had a series of meetings in my office with all the implicated educational organizations, the student organisations, the county councils, the publishing association and the parental committee for primary school and others. We've done that to make sure that we have a basis for what we're doing. We now believe that we have that basis. We want the promise of knowledge to be carried out the next harvest for everyone in high school and, of course, in primary school. There is a significant challenge now related to parental information and to the 10th grade students this year. This information is to be provided in cooperation with the county council. There are no major changes in what the Storing has previously decided on the Knowledge Promise, but it is clear that some preparations have gone later, and some processes have taken more time. We now feel confident that there will be a good and safe school start for those who begin high school until the fall. We will contribute to this together with the County Council – and I also hope with the participation of Stortingen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e422	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e425	The Minister of Knowledge has created a lot of debate after he became the Council of State, both on another foreign language, on general study competence, on prayer and on kindergartens. About as often as the playoffs have come, the council has been out saying that he has been misunderstood. The press has misunderstood, the opposition has misunderstood and the trade unions have misunderstood. It may be the Council of State that has misunderstood something. My question is related to the criticism that comes from the professional environments. That the opposition has a critical searchlight on the government should be lacking, but in the last few weeks it is to a very large extent the various professional environments that have criticised the state council for both the lack of focus and perhaps for the lack of ability to listen to the criticism that comes from there. It worries the Council of State that so much criticism comes from the professional communities just in the areas that the Council of State will now have removed from the Knowledge promise that Right, among other things. have participated in the implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e435	It was an unexplained question, but I guess the questioner's thinking about it is that our view of another foreign language is that we don't want it to be mandatory. We need language skills, and we hope that many young people choose a different foreign language. The approach taken in the curriculum work in a practical language discipline is important for the individual and important to our society, but we are open to the possibility — if you want — of having any alternatives. I'm a little surprised that the Right of All are the ones criticising our government for freedom of choice. But that's what this right here is doing. They want a mandatory subject; we want it to be given a slightly larger opening. The opening we're giving is depression in English, depression in Norwegian and also depression in Sami. Of course, Norwegian society will be used for people who know more English and more Norwegian. We are often criticized for not being good enough here, but let me say that we continue all the preparatory work for the second foreign language. It's going on teacher refresher training, it's going on educational preparation, and it's not least that we want to motivate the most possible young people to take the second foreign language. I have great faith that the second foreign language is going to be a success, and we're going to do what we can to make sure that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e440	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e443	I have a follow-up question to the Minister of Knowledge, which says that kindergartens are ‘a voluntary start to a lifelong learning cycle’. It is important to get full babysitting, so that any child who wants it can have a babysitting place. The government has taken so far, there's not so many, and there's no reason why we should believe we're reaching this goal in the very near future. It's important with high-quality kindergarten, and therefore the previous government invested 50 million. on measures to promote the empowerment of children, which have been somewhat reduced by this government. But what I'm asking is, the compulsory course of education starts today in the first class. Kindergarten is voluntary, but when it becomes full kindergarten coverage and everyone gets the right to a nursery, when does the new government intend to introduce the obligation to go to kindergarten? Because after I got to the Minister of Knowledge, he wants most of the children to enter the same system. Today, compulsory first-class learning begins. Kindergarten is a voluntary start to a lifelong learning cycle, and when is it intended to introduce a mandatory nursery?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e454	I can assure the asker that as far as I know, neither this government nor anyone else has ever raised the question that kindergartens should be compulsory. On the contrary, kindergartens should be voluntary for those who want it. Kindergarten is a good offer, but if parents want anything other than kindergarten, they are of course quite free to do so. That's what our government means. That was what the previous government also meant, and I think all Norwegian parents think so, so on this issue there is no disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e459	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e462	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. There are actually two questions I intend to ask him. The first thing goes on that this government, and not least the minister, went to the elections, that it should focus on the weakest right. There was a look-up in the Newspaper, where the Workers' Party's Bjarne Håkon Hanssen summarized the Bondevik II government's thousand first days, where he had found 25 steps that, in his opinion, went in the wrong direction. One of these points is the removal of burial aid for all. There was no way of how the unsocial government and the Progress Party were when the Progress Party in the budget agreement had to go in to accept that the gravitational support was being tested. Now the Progress Party has put a tomb aid of NOK 5000 into its budget, plus NOK 12 000, which is tested for needs. And then my first question is: why does the minister continue to go in the wrong direction and not vote for the proposals of the Progress Party, when he has the opportunity to do this now? We now see that more and more municipalities report that the minimum pensioners are a larger and larger proportion of those receiving social assistance in municipalities. So it's like going into retirement life as a minimum pensioner, you're going to be there for the rest of your life, and you don't have a chance to get out of this pinch you've gotten into. We have now proposed that the minimum pensioners should receive an additional NOK 5000 in the budget. There is a solution that will remove many of these pensioners from the social welfare queue that unfortunately too many of those who have built this country have come in. Would the Minister agree to such an increase to the minimum pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e475	This is reflected in the range of policies of the Progress Party, where it is always such that when the Progress Party does not have power, they can afford both one and the other. It is when the Party of Advancement has power that we see the true face of the party. In fact, the gravitational aid was removed when the Advance Party had power. When the party of progress put the fate of the Bondevik government in its hands and could really decide what to prioritize, the funeral aid was terminated as a universal scheme, because then the most important thing for the Progress Party was to bring down the annual fee on caravans, motorcycles and that kind of action. So we see that when you write alternative budgets, you can always afford most, and that's the case this time as well. The rest of us deal with this reality all the time, and what's always the challenge, and as we're very clearly experiencing now, is that when you remove welfare arrangements, it's easy, because then you can kind of use the money for other good purposes. Resuming welfare schemes is a far more demanding operation. This government is doing well in a number of areas over the three weeks that we had to create our alternative state budget, and we are now going to continue working on a comprehensive welfare policy by bringing forward next autumn a growth message about work, welfare and inclusion, where we are just going to look at the various welfare arrangements to see if that money is spent as reasonably as possible, and not least on the basis of the poverty trap, of which some minimum pensioners are part, and see how we can organise a better policy for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e482	I assume that this well-directed explanation, as an answer to the question, is that one has still intended to go wrong in terms of burial aid. The government has put forward a number of proposals in its budget that include: shall continue to pinch the minimum pensioners. So you've done it to increase the wealth tax for those who have the least of them. Those who built a house perhaps in a small place in the 1950s-1960s, as the place has evolved, have a house located in the middle of a city. This has led to a dramatic increase in the value of the house. This increase in value is now getting these minimum pensioners in the middle of their faces by getting a strong tax boost. In addition, most of the minimum pensioners eat food, just like the rest of us do. Here you get a huge increase in the food tax, which affects those who have the least. We who sit in this room can afford to pay an extra tax, but there are many minimum pensioners who, because of the increase, have to go to the social office. What will the minister do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e491	This is not a ‘well-directed explanation’. It's a description of reality. That day the tomb aid disappeared, because the Party of Advancement voted for it to disappear. It's a fact and not an explanation of reality. Had not the Advance Party voted as they did that day, the tomb aid had passed. I realize it's an unpleasant story to bring with it, but it's just as full a part of the actual story. As I said in my first answer, this government is going to take seriously the fact that also some minimum pensioners have ended up in a poverty trap. We're going to work on it after two major tracks. One of the main features is the broad track of pension reform. There will be little benefit for today's minimum pensioners, but will be a guarantee related to the future. So we want to go a long way into this whole big business message.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e498	To get time for the next main question, the President will accept only two follow-up questions – first Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e501	Governments are actually wrong, because the tomb support is not gone. It has become significantly better for those who actually need an improved burial aid. A well-known Swedish politician once said: Politics is to choose. That strong will can be good to have in politics, there is little doubt about it. But the ability to give priority to the most important first is probably far more important. That's why I was a little worried when I registered that during its first 14 days as the Council of State, the Council of State appeared to be very unclear in relation to its priorities. On various occasions he stated that the fight against poverty was his job no. 1st@item: inlistbox A few days later, integration was his job no. 1st@item: inlistbox And a few days later, his job was no. 1st@item: inlistbox I choose to perceive the Council of State in the most benevolent way, namely that he gradually understood that the working line is a prerequisite for both the fight against poverty and integration. My question is therefore: why in the world does the Council of State make it more difficult for young people and immigrants to get a job, by reversing the possibility of temporary addition?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e509	Poverty, integration and work are quite closely linked, so there is probably a pull length here that is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox If you're going to do something with one, you're going to have to do something with the other. You can't solve these problems piece by piece and division. The main challenge we face is integration and work, which is also the main basis for combating poverty. I don't believe that expanding access to temporary employment is the way to get people a job. I think that is the way to provide people with uncertainty, which does not provide the basis for a stable and lasting job situation that can provide people with a basis for, for example. housing loans and the ability to buy houses, etc. I disagree with the analysis that increased use of temporary employment creates greater stability and security in the labour market – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e516	I want to follow up on what was question No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The minimum pension list has a high level of economic stature, but it also applies to those excluded from the labour market. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government of Stoltenberg will continue the Bondevik II government's active efforts against poverty. It is positive that the Stoltenberg government recognises that the best way out of poverty is through work for those with working capacity. In the Bondevik II government's proposal to the Working Environment Act, which was agreed in the Stortingen in ours, the right to temporary inclusion was extended so that more people could experience the value of having a job to go to. This extended court has withdrawn the Stoltenberg government. My follow-up to the question instead: does the Council not see that this change reduces the chances of trying out a job, and that the government can thus help to increase poverty, rather than stimulate joint efforts to reduce poverty? The labour market is interested in offering jobs, but the government is now saying no.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e527	First, this government does not continue the efforts of the Bondevik government to combat poverty. We are more than doubling that effort in the fight against poverty. To the second question, I would say that one of the main challenges we have in Norwegian working life is to be able to include, for example: disabled persons in working life. I have discussed quite thoroughly with an organisation such as the FFO, which organises large sections of people with disabilities in Norway, if they believe that increasing use of temporary employment is what it takes to increase the number of people with disabilities at work and thus do something about inclusion and doing something about combating poverty. The ffo gives one unique advice: don't do it for all! Do not create an A-layer and a B-layer in Norwegian working life! This will mean that we disabled people will never get out of the poverty trap, because we will always be offered temporary jobs, which means that we will not have the security to live an inclusive and normal life. I think it might also be wise for the Christian People's Party to listen a little bit to those who wear their shoes, in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e534	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e537	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The welfare of the future is not created by the Ministry of Finance, but by people with knowledge and willingness to enter. It is therefore disappointing, but unfortunately not surprising, that so far everything the Minister of Knowledge has pointed out is about demorating knowledge and minimizing recruitment and skills problems. The government has announced that other foreign languages will not be mandatory at the youth level. According to the Government Declaration, the completion of secondary education shall give all general study competence, irrespective of study programme and skills. The current government parties opposed the introduction of entry requirements in mathematics and Norwegian in general teacher training, and the Government kutter in the Research Fund, which provides less money for research in the years to come. Despite the fact that the previous government strategy plan for real subjects has begun to produce positive results, Norway continues to have the lowest proportion of real-time students in the OECD area. The number of real-time lecturers is strongly decreasing. New recruitment is low, and the real-time teachers who are now leaving school and retiring are replaced by real-time teachers with less competence. In addition, Norwegian students perform consistently weakly in real science. But these alarming trends don't seem to worry the Minister of Knowledge, because according to him, the students are very good at things that aren't measured in surveys, and they're very good at cooperating. To be a Minister of Knowledge, the Minister of Knowledge cares little about knowledge. Does the Council acknowledge that we have a skill and recruitment problem in the real subjects, or do we not? And in that case, what will he do with it? How does he feel that this supposed cooperation compensates for weak professional results?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e550	There is a failure in the interest in and recruitment to real science throughout the Western world. Data suggest that problems have been particularly high in Norway. It is also worrying that the competence of teachers in high school is weak in real life. This goes beyond the students' understanding and motivation in the subject. The Ministry works widely and targets its efforts to strengthen the real subjects through the ‘Real science, of course!’ programme. In this context, it is particularly important to highlight four important areas of action. I want to focus on strengthening teaching skills. This happens, among other things: through the promise of knowledge, where real science is a priority through the development of online continuing education services in mathematics and the natural sciences, and the strengthening of teacher training, where mathematics and natural sciences are among the most selected distilling subjects. The number of hours spent in science and mathematics has increased in childhood, mathematics has become mandatory on VK2, and new curricula in the Knowledge Lift will provide better content in the training. Three national real science centres — one for mathematics, one for natural sciences and one for real science recruitment — have been established and play a crucial role in strengthening work, in particular in working methods and motivation. In addition, I want to create a more positive attitude to real science also in society in general. This is what we want, among other things. by increasing the support to the regional White Centres. It's quite true that the questioner is saying that the failure of the recruitment to a real science is worrying. This applies to both teachers and students. I think it's particularly important that we get competent teachers who can motivate and inspire young people to choose a real science. Real science is important to our society. It's important for technological development, and it's important for our industry and our business. The previous government did a lot in this field in cooperation with Stortinget. Our government will also place decisive emphasis on this. These measures that I am describing here are some of the many measures that we want to strengthen our interest. Let me also say, there are some signs of improvement. Among other things, I've been told that it's now mathematics that's the most wanted electoral profession in teacher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e569	I thank you for your answer. Most of the measures proposed by the Council of State are those implemented by the previous Council of State, and they should not be followed. I have recorded that until now the knowledge minister has not been overly involved in knowledge, but in the table verses and prayers. So my prayer – if I can say it like that – to the knowledge minister must be that he begins to engage in matters that are important for building the knowledge society ahead, and engage less in what parents, students and teachers can do. But one thing does not escape the Council of State. When all students — irrespective of their programme of study, irrespective of their actual qualifications — are required to acquire general study competence below, this means that the quality of higher education is reduced. This is particularly serious for the real subjects, because the students there are already struggling with poor theoretical knowledge. One of the reasons for the adoption of two years of mandatory mathematics in the Knowledge Lift was precisely the desire to strengthen the real subjects, and especially mathematics. It voted against the current government parties. There's a resistance I'm assuming standing by layers. How does the Council of State feel that lowering the requirements for students and students should provide more and better real-time teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e582	As I explained in a previous line, in terms of study competence, we'll come back to how we're going to facilitate this. We have many positive experiences that young people who have gone through a race can choose to take training for an academic-theoretical profession afterwards. In particular, it is possible by means of an electrophage letter to proceed to become an electrical engineer. Realism is also an important part of this, the way to qualify for higher education. The fact that we have a broader vision of knowledge than the previous government is right. Our government has a broader vision of knowledge, and that is crucial. But at the same time, we're not going to lower the requirements for higher education. Higher education is infinitely important. Real science requirements for higher education are important, and we are going to do what we can to continue much of what has been started in the past, while also focusing on new things. As the representative also knows, we haven't been sitting in the chair for a very long time – that's five or six weeks we've been there – so we haven't had the opportunity to go deep into how we're going to implement new measures related to real-life recruitment. We'll get back to this, but as I said, it's done a good job in advance, and we're building on that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e593	For the sake of time, the President will be able to accept only two follow-up questions – first from Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e596	We still feel that we get a little different signals from the Council of State. On the TV2 news on November 20, the Council of State said – at least as I understood it – that real science is not really important for Norwegian school, because we can work together to find solutions. The day after the same newscast, the statements were somewhat nuanced, and they were more in line with what the council here gave in response. But the thing is, unfortunately, that Norwegian eighth-graders are three years behind in math skills compared to eighth-graders in comparable countries in Southeast Asia. And there's a rather dramatic difference, especially when considering the vision Norway has of becoming the world's leading knowledge nation. What will the Council of State do now, in a situation where the most important real-time teachers seem to be retired almost simultaneously, in order to retain that competence and exploit it as long as it is there, in order to recruit not only students but also teachers with competence into the real world?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e609	I very much agree that it is important that we strengthen our teaching skills in real science. We have put in place a lot of measures, and we will start more. Over the next year, we're going to spend almost 600 million dollars. kr for training related to the promise of knowledge. A significant part of these 600 million. kr, already granted by the Stortinget, will be used for the upgrading of refresher training and knowledge to real-time teachers in the school. This is an important part of the knowledge promise we need, and it will also apply to the knowledge promise for the next harvest, which is, of course, an upgrade and upgrade of the real subjects. As everyone knows, making major changes in education and training skills is not done during one fiscal year, but a lot of good work has been done in the previous ageing period, and a lot of good work is going on and will continue. I hope we have reversed a downward trend that we have had for many years. Let me just say that this has been going on for years. It started too long back, but we're going to be able to turn this around. Now we're on our way up again, and I hope that through the actions we're doing, which we've put in place, we're going to raise the status and quality of the real subjects and thus make it inspiring for young people to choose a real subject. At least that's our goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e617	Ola T. Lånk – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e620	The weakening of real-time vocational competence is worrying. The question we are facing is how far Norway is going to be able to facilitate the use of our natural resources in the future. One of our neighbouring countries that we can often refer to is Finland, which has one of the most competitive economies in the world. They're betting even more on real science. So while we're on this list, we're lowering the requirements for higher education. I'm going to quote from the Vice-Chancellor of Civil Engineering Education at Norway's Technical Science University, NTNU, in Trondheim, an institution that Djupedal knows very well. He stated in the Address Paper on 9 November that it is not possible to bring up students on a weaker basis than today. He says that NTNU already struggles with the fact that students from high school have too poor knowledge, and points out, among other things. that uptake samples are a more topical solution. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: Is it a desirable development that we now need to have special admission tests or perhaps an additional year of preparation to ensure that the students have the necessary knowledge before they start higher education – be it real science or other subjects?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e629	The answer to this lies in much of what I have already said. It takes years to rebuild what has been lost in the skills of real science and related to the interest in real science. This work has begun, and we are going on with renewed force. In the Knowledge Lift, there is an upgrade of the real subjects both for hours and, in particular, for teachers. A lot of this lies with the teachers. But it is of course that we should not have a weakened quality in higher education, and the concern that comes from NTNU, of course, we take seriously. NTNU has an application within the department related to this with admission requirements that I do not want to pre-shoot the outcome of. It's for our treatment. The starting point, and I think that the representative Lånker and I share, is that this will take years. But we've started on the right path. There are signs that more people are now opting for real-school depression in higher education, and that's positive. There are things that indicate that real - time knowledge will also be improved by the promises we make in the promise of knowledge to the autumn. In this way we hope and believe that in a few years we will see a improvement on this, a improvement not least in the quality of the real subjects, and that the teachers of course inspire and motivate. The teacher in the classroom is the one who's going to be able to inspire the kids to think that real science is fun and interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e638	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e644	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 5, from the representative of Vera Lyskleatt to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, this question is moved and answered before Question 35, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 8, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn. Question 14, from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes to the Minister for Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 31, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister for Transport, this question is moved and answered in response to question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e665	I experience the Council of State as engaged in local democracy terms, a view that I share with the Council of State. I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In 1998 the municipality of Nittedal authorised the construction of a forest dwelling. The decision was appealed, and the chairmanship of Nittedal followed the complaint. The decision has been appealed against by the State Environmental Department, which cannot see that ‘special reasons’ are required. The Ministry has also appointed Mr Kitfylsang to deal with the complaint.’ And then the question: ‘Can the Council of State see that this is a major threat to local democracy, and what will the Council of State do about this in order to avoid such an outrage of local democracy in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e676	The President would remind you that the question should only be read out, without further observations, only read out as it was submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e679	I hear what the president says, but I think it's nice to hear that there are more people who are concerned about local democracy here. I cannot go into the specific matter that it refers to, because it is still under consideration. However, I understand that the question concerns the right to review municipal decisions by the State in matters relating to the exemption from the area area of the municipal plan. Derogation from the plan requirement in the area part of the municipal plan requires the existence of ‘special reasons’. This condition must be fulfilled. No person is entitled to benefit from a derogation and it shall not initially be currant to obtain a derogation. The law uses the phrase "can give", i.e. it is for the building authorities to assess the appropriateness of granting exemptions if the condition is met. [[...]] The Planning and Building Act allows the County and State bodies to appeal individual decisions if the decision directly affects the area of concern of the competent authority. Under the Administrative Law, the Board of Appeal shall be detained to review decisions in which the municipality has ‘free judgement’. However, the nature of the detention of the State body in the case of review of decisions taken by the municipality will depend on the nature of the case. The general rule is that high emphasis should be placed on the local maritime administration, but if the municipality has taken a decision which appears to be contrary to State guidelines, regional plans etc., there may nevertheless be grounds for a State body to promote complaints against the decision of the municipality. Finally, I would like to point out that the Planning and Building Act is under review, and both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs are working on the follow-up of the investigations by two legislative committees, the Plan Law Committee and the Building Law Committee, which conducted their investigations in May 2003 and June 2005 respectively. This work will include: the provisions on exemptions and complaints to municipal decisions under the Planning and Building Act are thoroughly assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e692	I understand that the Council of State also seems to believe that earmarking funds can be a threat to local democracy, as the fact that the Progress Party is proposing earmarked resources for the care of the elderly is a threat to local democracy. Now I understand that the Council of State believes that the question I asked is important, and that she will pursue it. It is a frustration out there with local politicians when a case handler at the county can review local decisions, so I am glad that the council will follow up the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e699	This is a matter that has a very long history, and in the light of the fact that it is still being treated, I cannot comment on it in particular. But it is clear that the matter illustrates a point, in the sense that it illustrates how difficult the balance is between, on the one hand, being concerned with caring for the local maritime administration and, on the other hand, being sure that we follow the rules adopted in different contexts in a good way. In this context, there is a specific question of how to maintain municipal maritime governance on the one hand and the good intentions one has on the other hand that the mark should be a place to which everyone should have access and be able to use in a good way, and that one can take care of the great natural and outdoor experiences of using the land. – A difficult balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e704	Do Ib Thomsen want additional questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e707	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e716	‘The Government has notified that they will come to Stortinget with a notification of the new regions and their tasks. Will such a notification also include the tasks that can be transferred from the State and the current county municipality to the primary municipalities?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e723	The government is committed to strengthening local democracy at both municipal and regional level. It is the municipalities that are closest to the people in their everyday lives, and Regeringa has said in the Soria Moria Declaration that we want to ‘ensure that tasks are solved at the lowest appropriate level of administration’, and among other things. ‘to strengthen the role of municipalities as a social developer’. We are fundamentally concerned about how we can develop the municipalities both as service providers and as the democratic arena. The government has also announced in the Soria Moria Declaration that a regional reform will take place. We believe that it is necessary to clarify which tasks should be at regional level, and we believe that it is necessary to carry out that level of further tasks. It's at the regional level we per. Today, the main challenges are facing, and it is therefore also at the level that we will see, after all, the biggest changes in the overall governance reform that we are going to have in place from 1 January 2010. So the answer to the question asked by the representative, Höie, is: Yes, we will also look at whether the primary municipalities should be assigned new tasks, other tasks, in the large amount of work that we go into. At the same time, however, there is no doubt that the main challenges lie at regional level, at the intermediate level, and that that is what will be given the most attention in this round, so that we can ensure a lasting reform that will both help to strengthen local democracy at that level and that we carry out the tasks effectively at the intermediate level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e732	I agree that it is the biggest challenges at regional level, although I do not agree with the conclusion that the Minister of State and the Government have on it, namely that one should continue to do so. I believe that the conclusion should be that one lower that level and transferred the tasks to the municipality along with new government tasks to the municipality. What concerns me, however, in the response of the Council of State, is that one has such a strong focus on the need for new tasks for these new regions, while recording very few specific examples of what these tasks should be. Can the Minister of State guarantee today that this reform will not be at the expense of the tasks of the primary municipalities, that there will not be a single task transferred from the primary municipalities to this new regional level, but that in the event the tasks will go the other way, namely to the primary municipality? Many municipal politicians around the country are concerned that these should be at the expense of the municipalities and not at the expense of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e741	The government is very clear on what our objective is with this administrative reform. It is that we should shift power from state and closer to people, to regional level, possibly to municipal level and to the primary municipalities. There is nothing in our thinking that would mean that we would move some power and authority from the municipalities. Rather, on the contrary, we are concerned that the municipalities should be the central level. That's what's closest to people, and we're going to do as many tasks as possible at that level. So there's no idea or plan at all that we're going to rip the primary municipalities for some tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e746	I am pleased that one states that one does not want to take tasks from the municipalities. I wonder if one has already begun to think about what kind of government tasks you can move to the primary municipalities, so that the primary municipalities can work together to solve them, and not least what decisions are taken today by employees in the state, which should be taken by elected representatives at a local level, for example. linked both to agricultural management and to environmental management.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e751	It is tempting for me to rush into a debate on the tasks to be transferred, both the tasks to be transferred from state to region, possibly from state to municipal level and from regional level to municipal level. It's tempting for me to go into the debate on what we can move from state to elected control, but I'm going to master myself in this area, because now it's important, if we're going to get to the goal of this process, that we do things in the right order. It is crucial for me, who is to be responsible for moving this ashore within the framework of the Government, that I do not now formulate conclusions that will lock the process. That is why I ask for respect for the fact that we need to go some rounds within the government, and also with all the actors to be heard in this process, before I become clear on what tasks I think should be moved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e767	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e774	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The defense has decided to park an artillery system, namely Multiple Launch Rocket System [[MLRS]] Is the Council of State comfortable making such major decisions by the Defence without political influence, and will she later allow politicians to make such major changes in Norwegian defence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e783	The decision to acquire a MLRS was taken by the Stortinget in 1995 as part of the Norwegian National Defence Agency in the context of the examination of the position of the Defence Committee on the State Budget in the same year. The acquisition of two types of bombardment was part of the project. So far, the claim for self-destructive mechanism has not been met, and therefore such ammunition has not been acquired for the weapon system. On this basis and in order to adapt the level of activity of the Army to the 2005 adopted defence budget, the General Inspector General of the Army MLRS took out of daily operation from the summer of 2005. However, the system is still technically operational, although under the current security obligation quota, personnel are not trained to operate it. The material is stored at the artillery at the Setermoen in Troms. In examining the timing of the last long-term proposal on defence in the period 2005-2008, Stortinget concluded on the proposal for a new army structure. The purpose of the conversion was to strengthen the operational capability of the defence. The change involves a qualitative improvement in the structure by making the forces of the Army more usable and accessible. In view of today’s safety challenges, the Army will thus be able to meet the requirements for rapid response, flexibility and quality in a better way than before. The overall framework for the development of defence is a political matter. The tasks of the defence, its overall structure and its basic arrangements are issues that are addressed politically and presented to the European Parliament for evaluation and decision-making, including: in relation to the processing of defence long-term plans. The defence, including the defence sectors, shall operate within the limits laid down by the magnification and government. This has been made perfectly clear to the entire defence organisation. With regard to the further development of the Army, the Government will return to the Storting with revised, comprehensive recommendations, at the latest in connection with the submission of the next long-term defence plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e803	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What is a fact is that the MLRS system has been decommissioned, parked in a garage on the Setermoen clay pending further use, possibly sale, possibly scrapping. This may have several reasons. According to the Chief of Staff of the Army, Arne Khrpe, this is due, according to an article in the Evening Post on 16 November, to this year's tight budget and over-exploitation in the Army last year, while Colonel Stein Erik Lauglo, the Chief of Artillery and Air Protection in the Armed Forces, says that the MLRS was a "part of the army of the time. Today’s army is so small that the system is less relevant’. Can the Council of State clarify the reason why the MLRS system is parked in a garage? Is it that the Army is being reorganized, is it economics, or is it perhaps another cause?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e810	As to why it was taken out of operation this summer, it was mainly due to the fact that the Army had a operating framework that was very reduced due to the excess consumption last year, and that this led to some choice in relation to what to do. Then they took out the MLRS system, because it's resource-intensive to keep going, but also because what I also mentioned in my answer is a system for which you don't have the approved ammunition today. This was an assessment carried out by the inspector-general, and that is what is at stake. It's quite possible to put this weapon system back into use if it's going to be economics for it and you want to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e815	I thank the Council once again for the answer. What's certain is that the MLRS system is a unique weapon. It can fire 12 rockets at the same time against 12 different dimensions up to 40 kilometers away – a completely unique weapon system. My next question will then be: Does not the Minister of Defense think that on a matter of this magnitude and of such a scale, where the Stortinget was involved and determined – overall this would be a purchase of SEK 2.8 billion, so far we have spent SEK 1.5 billion, but the Defense Packs it down without the Stortinget being involved in making that decision – would be natural, as I see it, that the Stortinget should also be involved and decide that we should possibly put it away, since this is a major reorganization of the Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e822	If this is to be disposed of for good, it is clearly a decision that the Stortinget will make and that we will return to the Stortinget. What is also a requirement is that the defence must stay within the agreed economic framework, which the Storting has also adopted, and since this year has been a very difficult year, especially for the Army, it was decided to put it at rest and store it, and not to train personnel for the current year. But if this were to be permanently removed from operation, there would be a decision that the Storting will make after an assessment is made from our side of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e829	Question 5 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e836	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «The extensive coastal tere forest death is described by researchers as an environmental disaster. New measurements show that 50 pst. of the seaweed vegetation from Lindesnes to Bergen and the whole of 90 pst. on the route Oslo-Kristiansand has disappeared. Researchers describe an ecosystem in an imbalance, with major consequences for fish juveniles and crustaceans, but do not know the causes of this environmental problem. What action will the Council of State take against the deforestation of the Sea?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e845	In the summer of 2004, NIVA researchers discovered that the sugar tar was disappearing from large parts of the coast between the Swedish border and Lindesnes. In the light of this State pollution control and the Directorate for Nature Management, the Ministry of the Environment commissioned a three-year project on sugar tar. The main objective of the project is to identify the extent of the decline in sugar tar and the reasons for this. In addition, studies on the impact on biodiversity in the coastal zone are carried out. The project started in 2005 and will run until 2007. This year, something over $3 million is set aside. kr to work. The project is well under way, but we do not yet have a safe knowledge of the causes of the extensive sugar-tar death. We wait, for example, for information on where the sludge now covering large parts of the seabed comes from. This sludge helps to prevent young seaweed plants from attaching themselves. There may be many reasons for this serious situation, such as: climate change, increased emissions from the continent or increased emissions in Norway. If the problem is caused by pollution, the measures taken to date have obviously not been sufficient. Any new measures will have consequences for those targeted, and we therefore need to use the time required to obtain sufficient knowledge of what is happening. This is not least important if it is found that the causes are beyond the borders of the country and that the problem therefore needs to be solved through international cooperation. I can assure you that we are following this very serious matter with the highest priority, and that we will decide what measures can be taken as soon as the necessary knowledge is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e856	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer. It is positive that the environmental problems surrounding the sugar cane are taken seriously. The consequences, especially for the cod in the fjords, are great. I am aware that in a short time the researchers will present a new interim report on possible causalities, including: this with sludge and increased presence of nutrient salts. Can the Council of State say anything more about the time aspect of any action plan? Is there funding available for research and action in 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e863	It is important that we find the reasons before we start action. Therefore, we need to be allowed to use the time we now need to find the reasons so that the measures become relevant. I can assure you that we will have a high priority on the matter, and that the measures will be launched as soon as we have a better knowledge of the causes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e868	I thank you again for the additional answer. If the sugar cane dies due to nutrient salts from the continent, as suggested by the Council of State, this is an environmental problem for many North Sea countries. Will the Council of State then take a further initiative in pursuing a broad North Sea cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e875	I can assure you that we will take those initiatives in the relevant international forums that it is necessary to take to get a solution to the problem. It could be Nordic, but also other international forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e885	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The transit of the churches has been authorised from SFT to 25 transhipments of gas condensate in Bøkfjorden in Finnmark. At the same time, SFT sets out requirements for analysis which are difficult to meet and which will be virtually impossible to meet when they will subsequently expand the number of transhipments. At the same time, the SFT has made it clear that they prefer not to add this activity to the Bøkfjord at all, since the fjord is national salmon fjord. Do the Councils agree that the re-loading of petroleum should be permitted in a national salmon fjord?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e894	The Church's Transit plans to initiate the re-loading of gas condensate from Russia in Bøkfjorden in the municipality of South Varanger. The transhipment will take place by ship with condensate coming from Russia and transferring its cargo to larger product tankers anchored at Reinøy in Bøkfjorden. On 7 November 2005, the State pollution control authority established emergency requirements for the company for up to 25 transhipment operations of condensate from Russia in Bøkfjorden. It also requires that environmental risk assessment, preparedness analysis and contingency plan be updated before the operation can begin. According to SFT’s assessment, this reloading activity is not considered compulsory under the pollution law. However, an increase in excess of 25 transhipments would, in the SFT’s opinion, be subject to concession and require an application to the SFT for authorisation. The status of the area as a national salmon fjord has also been assessed by the SFT on the basis of professional input from the Directorate for Nature Management. The Ministry of the Environment is the complaint authority in the case. For this reason, I cannot comment on the representative’s questions at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e905	This is a major and very important matter of principle, and any decision that the Council of State will take in this matter will be of particular interest and principle for the fjords subject to the decision taken in St. Prp. No 79 for 2001-2002, and of course also for the future when, unfortunately, a new round comes. Will the Council of State guarantee – if you want to take the same view in the department as the SFT's advice, and also from the Directorate of Nature Management – that an impact assessment will be carried out on the adverse effects of this on the counties of the Churches and Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e912	I hope to understand that I cannot comment on this as long as the Ministry of the Environment is the complaint authority in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e917	I understand, of course, that it is difficult to comment on a matter like this, but at the same time I expect the Minister for the Environment to understand what can happen to all the major plans, including those which the current government also has for the North, for Finnmark and not least for the Church and South Varanger, which are the gateway to the Barents Sea, the port to Russia, and for all the planned activities and activities that will take place in this area. A negative decision in line with what SFT and DN actually have will reverse the time several decades in optimism, in development and in the faith of the future of the Church. At the same time, it is obvious that a negative decision, from my point of view, will form the precedent and lead to exactly the same very negative consequences that I am quite convinced were not intended when the Stortinget made its decision in St.prp. No Seventy-nine.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e924	I understand the commitment, but I hope to understand that I must be clear and clear that we are the complaint authority and therefore cannot comment on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e939	This question is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e946	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will make its own investigation into the impact of global warming on the environment and natural resources in the Barents Sea. When is this investigation expected to be clear and will it be seen in the context of the Barents Sea and beyond Lofoten management plan?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e955	The government sees it as very important to work continuously to ensure the best possible understanding of the impacts of global warming and increased CO2 levels in the atmosphere, including the environment and marine natural resources. The migration patterns of the fish, and thereby also the prevalence of seabirds, are closely related to sea temperature, sea salinity and current conditions. The level of CO2 in the sea may be important for primary production and for several calcareous organisms. The extensive documentation on climate change in the Arctic presented to the Arctic Council of Ministers last November shows that climate change is already under way in the Arctic. Furthermore, the work on the Barents Sea Management Plan has been based on more concrete technical investigations into the links between climate change and the state of the environment in the Barents Sea. This ensures a good professional basis for the ongoing work on the management plan, but at the same time it is important to ensure a continuous build-up of knowledge on these issues. The investigation notified by the Government will build on the professional basis already available. The investigation will address complex issues. So it'll necessarily take some time to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e972	I thank you for your answer. It is good that we should have a continuous focus on climate in relation to the challenges that climate brings us. But it is now that changes in the climate could affect patterns of prevalence and migration, for example: fish on which the Minister for the Environment himself was concerned. Will not a climate analysis say anything about future changes in the natural environment that the management plan is intended to take into account? Because if the fish owl changes its areas of residence, it could mean that the government might say no to drilling in the spawning area of the fish, while saying yes to drilling in the breeding area of the fish. Does the Council of State see this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e979	It is absolutely right to be concerned with all the elements, both in the management plan and in other subsequent investigations. It is important that the management plan now be used as a basis for decisions to be taken for the whole of administrative practice, and the implementation of different actions and different conclusions to be drawn from the management plan. I can assure the representative that we will work well with the management plan, precisely so that we can draw good conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e984	I thank you again for the answer. Yes, it is now that the Stortinget will be presented to the Barents Sea Management Plan in 2006, and we will then adopt the management of a vulnerable area. In retrospect, we will know more, and that is what the Council of State says today: We will have a partial investigation after this plan is available. I must then be able to ask again whether the climate and the consequences of global warming are important for the professional basis on which the management plan is to be based and on which we are to take decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e991	I would like to stress that there will be a comprehensive documentation on which to draw conclusions on the basis of the management plan. But there will always be a need for more knowledge. Everything suggests that climate change in the Arctic is extensive and that these will be changing in the future. That's why we'll be constantly concerned with increasing our knowledge and understanding. That is why we will also be constantly engaged in updating ourselves. The plan requested by the representative will be part of the long-term continuous update which must always take place for the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1000	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The construction of small power plants can make a valuable contribution to increased power generation in Norway, while providing valuable additional revenue to many landowners in the districts. It is therefore important to provide incentives for increased construction of small-scale power plants. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government says it will introduce a green certificate market for new renewable energy and mini- and micro-power plants. But there's nothing about small-scale power plants. Does this mean that the Government will not include small power plants in a green certificate market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1009	Norway is naturally very well equipped to produce renewable energy. Of course, this applies to hydropower – which stands for 99 pst. of our electricity production today — and in the case of wind, waves, tides, bioenergy, etc. I want to make it possible for us to make good use of these resources. The government will, among other things, make greater use of the potential of upgrading existing hydropower plants and of the construction of small, mini- and micro-power plants. As far as the electricity licence market is concerned, I want to spend some time assessing the design of the different elements of the scheme before I say anything more about what is going to be the Government's approach. This includes the question of which energy sources are to be included in such a scheme. A mandatory certificate market is a powerful tool, and it is important that we carefully assess its design. A central element of the assessments must be the use of our valuable natural resources in an environmentally sound manner, so that the projects being realised are mutually beneficial to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1018	I thank you for your answer and for many interesting considerations. When it comes to evaluating, I hope the government spends a short time, because here goes the train. This is a huge potential for District Norway. NVE calculated it to be 25 TWh. 80 pst. of the potential lies within small power, which will mean investments up to DKK 40 billion and a significant cash flow for District Norway. It's a district industry, and it's an environmentally sound industry, so here it's about stimulating now when the opportunities are there. I hope the Minister for Oil and Energy will deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1025	It is quite right, as the representative Gundersen said, that there is a significant potential in this. The government will give priority to identifying good arrangements for achieving the objectives set by the Government in this area. Nevertheless, the development of such a legislation will continue for a long time and it is therefore necessary to carry out an in-depth assessment. I will therefore come back to this at a later stage, when the Government has made that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1032	I want to repeat that I hope it doesn't last that long, because not including small power plants in the green certificate market will be discriminating against small power plants in relation to other environmentally friendly energy. I would also like to point out that Norway has a hundred-year tradition in manufacturing equipment for power plants, and this industry is also going to be lost if we do not have the speed to equalise small power with other environmentally friendly energy in the green certification market. So instead of just stimulating wind power, which stimulates Danish industry, I think the government must be aware of also stimulating what is needed to maintain the Norwegian industry in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1039	As I also said in my first answer, the government will add that we will exploit the potential both in existing hydropower production and in the construction of small, mini and micro power plants. You're already working out a way to do this and get a code for it, and we'll come back and present it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1044	We're going on to ask questions about small-scale power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1051	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The interest in building small-scale power plants is significant and increasing. In connection with Stortinget's treatment of supplementation of the Verne Plan for Watercourses, St.prp. No 75 for 2003-2004, a limit for the concession treatment of power plants in protected watercourses of 1 MW installed power was adopted. Such a limit may provide adaptations providing poor energy-efficient solutions. Will the Council of State consider raising the limit to 3 MW in sheltered watercourses, so that, for example, Tovdalselva is equated with the Bjerkreim watercourse?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1060	St. pp. No 75 for 2003–2004, Supplementary for the Verne Plan for Watercourses, was adopted by the Stortinget on 18 February this year. With this supplement about another 50 watercourses were protected from power expansion. From then on, about 340 watercourses were protected in the Verne Plan for Watercourses. At the same time as 50 new watercourses were protected, the Stortinget decided to open up concession treatment in sheltered watercourses for the smallest power plants – micro and mini-power plants – with installed power up to 1 MW. In the past, there has been no permission to grant concessions for power development in sheltered watercourses. It was emphasised that micro- and mini-power plants often have little impact on the environment and that there is good reason to equate micro- and mini-power plants with other types of measures in sheltered watercourses that may receive concession. A limit of e.g. 5 MW was considered to be too high, as it could open up projects that were perceived as more traditional power development and thus undermine the importance of the protection plan. The Rogaland birch watercourse was among the watercourses that were protected by the protective plan supplementation. For this watercourse a specific limit of 3 MW was set for small power plant projects which can be subject to concession treatment. I cannot rule out that the 1 MW limit leads to unfortunate energy economic solutions. However, such possible adaptation problems may always arise when size limits are imposed, regardless of where the specific limit is set. These problems need to be weighed against the purpose of the protection plan, which is to protect valuable nature. Ensuring good protection of the protection values must be essential here. The possibility of concessional treatment of power plant projects in sheltered watercourses has only existed since February of this year. In my opinion, it is too early to consider changes in these new rules. Now we need to focus on developing the best possible practice of the legislation recently adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1073	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Governments are very well aware that the Central Party has just made a number of proposals that 13 watercourses should be exempted from the supplementary protection plan. One of the watercourses is the watercourse I refer to here in my question, the Tovdal watercourse. The Progress Party voted in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party to remove the River Tovdal from the supplementary protection plan. The centre batch also had its own proposal to increase the limit of 1,5 MW installed power in sheltered watercourses. Is it so to understand that the Center Party has gone away from this now? In the case of the Tovdal Watercourse, the central party rapporteurs in all three municipalities are the most affected. They have all, together with the municipalities, strongly opposed the protection in Tovdalselva, which I am talking about. There are many plants that are right now, pending clarification by the Council of State. Here we need a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1084	All that Andersen now says in his supplementary question is, of course, correct in relation to the handling of this matter in Stortinget. The centre party had a different view than the decision of the Storting. My job as the Council of State is to manage the decisions that Stortinget has made, and to deal with them. This decision was taken in February this year. As I said in my first answer, it is neither good cutback nor reasonable to change the decision that was made three quarters of a year ago. As I also said in my first answer: what is now important is to deal with this properly, to safeguard protection and to develop the best possible practice of the legislation that the Stortinget has recently adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1091	I thank you once again for your answer. The Council of State noted that he saw the danger that there could be some poor adaptations to a 1 MW limit in sheltered watercourses. Then I can say that it is not particularly beneficial for the environment that it is built, for example. two small power plants just below the 1 MW limit instead of one 2,8 MW power plant. The reality is that the external physical sizes of installations, pipelines, power turbines, turbine houses and such objects are highly marginal if they are based on 1 MW, 2,5 MW or 2,8 MW. In that perspective, I'm going to ask the Council of State to look at this very limit and see if it's going to increase the 1 MW limit in some watercourses. Economic unprofitability is generated in some projects if one has to drop below 1 MW, so in relation to the investments, there is no economy in a good number of projects. I'm asking the council to think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1098	First of all, the profitability of micro and mini-power plants will also depend on the design we make of the electricity certificate code, which I have already replied to that the government will come back to. Secondly, micro and mini-power plants up to 1 MW are also subject to concession treatment, and it is by no means obvious that it will be opened to build three 1 MW power plants instead of one of 3 MW. Here there will be an assessment on a case-by-case basis of what is appropriate in relation to the environmental considerations to be addressed in a protective watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1109	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘Gassco manages a work to reveal the possibility of a gas pipeline to Grenland, Eastfold and possibly Sweden. When the Council of State presented this work at the Gassco conference recently, he stated that ‘it is very exciting. I hope that's something of this." Director-General of Hydro, Eivind Reiten, said to the NRK "It is always nice that the authorities are positive. But it only means something really new if it follows money with it”. Will the Government ensure sufficient capital to initiate the construction of gas pipelines to Grenland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1118	Gassco is now examining the commercial basis for leading gas pipelines to Skogn and Grenland. This is a follow-up to a decision in Stortinget last spring. There, the government was asked to give a state company, along with commercial actors, the task of going into concrete discussions with a view to realizing pipeline solutions to Grenland and Trøndelag. The project is in an important phase in which interests from the industry in Grenland, the East, Swedish actors and oil companies are involved. Pipe options with extension to Oslo/eastfold and West Sweden have thus become part of the project. Gassco shall submit a report by 1 January 2006. Gassco has facilitated the development of business plans for further work if justified. Detailed design will be funded by stakeholders if there is a commercial basis for it. This means that the project in this case will continue in a new phase over the New Year. It would be natural to wait to decide on state financial contributions to the results of Gassco’s work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1127	I think the answer was a little passive based on what we have heard from at least two of the three government parties in the past. In the election campaign, in several May 1st speeches and in addition in several budgetary positions, there are, among other things: The Labour Party was very critical of the policy pursued by the Bondevik government. The Workers' Party proposed several times to grant NOK 3 billion in start-up funds to a state company that would be able to invest in the infrastructure. The reason is that we should not just be able to talk about something that might happen, that we need private investors, but that the state has to show that you're willing to let the money follow the words, and show that we're going to build here. Sylvia Brustad has stated that she was not going to give up until she saw that there was a light in the gas pipes in Grenland. With such clear promises from the Workers' Party and from Enoxen in the election campaign, shouldn't the government have been faster and more concrete in promising that at least there will be funds from the state, and not just wait and see?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1134	With the statements now made by Solvik-Olsen's representative, there should at least be no doubt that the government intends to be a driver for us to find a sensible solution. That being said, Gassco is now in an important position to clarify the commercial interest in participating in this pipeline project. I would like to believe that it is also the case for the representative of the Progress Party that it is worth seeing that the opportunities for this to be a commercial project are first and foremost revealed before entering the state funds. It also seems that in budgetary terms the Progress Party has ample tasks to spend on government money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1141	The answer is still a little too unobligatory for me to give up on it, simply because the promises and demands of two of today's three government parties have previously been so clear in relation to the need there, but the state has to enter and ensure that the appropriations will come if there are built pipes. So far, the Government is waiting for the project to be investigated more, and that's exactly what the criticised Bondevik government for. The reason why it is urgent to clarify whether the State guarantees this funding is that the State has to take the same responsibility for the gas infrastructure as they have taken for the electricity infrastructure. We also know that if you want to get gas in the pipes, you have to start signing contracts as early as next year. It is not useful to sit and wait until an investigation is completed and you are over in 2008. Then the gas has already been sold to England. Can we expect the Government to give a much clearer signal than what has been given so far, that the money is guaranteed to come, so that those who want to invest in gas to Grenland know that they have the economic support that is needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1148	Let there be no doubt that there is a very clear ambition for this Government to realize sensible pipeline projects. Gas pipes to Grenland are, as I have already said, one of the exciting projects that I have great faith that it will be possible to solve. The difference between this government and the previous government is that this is a work that we want to press on and work to realize as quickly as it can at all. The most important thing now is that we go through the phases that are already underway, and that we get to do the investigations that Gassco is about to do. The previous government had to have a directive from Stortinget to follow up a project as important as this. This government has the ambition to work in a completely different way, and we are therefore in a much closer dialogue and have a much closer follow-up of that work than I have the impression that the previous government had.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1159	‘We have witnessed an earthquake disaster that struck the Kashmir Valley in Pakistan on 8 October. The extent of the destruction and death rates is increasing for every day that goes. The UN claims that the disaster is greater than last year's tsunami. The United Nations and international relief organizations have called for an alarm because of this. lack of money to continue the help. Norway has been unique in providing assistance, but the need is greater, and Norway is still lagging behind in the tsunami aid. In Norway, aid will increase further beyond 240 million. kr?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1166	I thank Khalid Mahmood for taking up a very, very important matter. The earthquake disaster in Pakistan is one of the largest natural disasters in the world in modern times. Three-four million people are homeless. Of course, an earthquake always comes inconvenient, but in addition, it's coming particularly unpleasant in Pakistan because it didn't come to the spring party, but just before the winter. According to the United Nations, more people may die in Pakistan as a result of diseases and cold in winter than of the quake itself. There is therefore an absolute need for strong international efforts. Norway has been at the forefront of this. The size has already granted a significant amount, and with the increases that the Government has made, we have spent 240 million. kr. The amount is so high that it has made Norway one of the most important contributors in the acute crisis phase in Pakistan alone. I can say that when I visited Pakistan, Red Cross employees said they were proud to be Norwegian in Pakistan. Nevertheless, the UN has come up with an appeal for more money. There's a need for more money for people to survive the winter. Many of the promises given are about long-term remedies and not about emergency aid. The government is therefore set to propose an additional 260 million. kr to those in need in Pakistan who will pass through the UN, if the Storting agrees. We will return to the Storting with this as soon as possible, and we want and expect a very rapid treatment of the Storing, so that these funds can be made available as quickly as it can be done at all. I would also like to add that President Musharraf called a large donor conference in Islamabad last week with significant international participation, among others. was the UN Secretary-General there. It seems to have been a success, but almost all the funds that came are for the long-term reconstruction, not for the immediate crisis phase. Norway, as one of the countries with flexible resources that can contribute to the crisis phase, must therefore assume its responsibility for bringing the earthquakes through the winter. That's why we've already committed a significant amount, a total of 240 million. kr, and will propose further 260 million. So it's going to be 500 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1177	I thank you for your answer. I also want to add, as the Council of State said, that there are good words to Norway from Pakistan, but also from the rest of the world. It was supposed to be just missing, because Norway has no imperialism to point to. Norway is known as Nansen’s country and as a peace nation, so such help is actually expected from Norway. Norwegian relief organisations, such as the Red Cross and the Church's Emergency Aid, have also made an effort for which there is respect. I would like to ask an additional question: the United Nations has said that the disaster that is now approaching a step by step is the result of the harsh and harsh weather that we can expect. The cold can hit a lot of people who are still alive, but are injured. Will the government be prepared, if the UN again warns that money is needed, to deliver in this difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1186	So true The Storting agrees, we'll grant another 260 million. NOK to this. Jan Egeland, UN relief coordinator, also said that the UN had now considered stepping down the business simply in the light of lack of money, but that this proposal to inject additional Norwegian resources will enable them to stand the distance through winter, so that people survive the winter. So the reconstruction will start when the snow is gone. Let me just say that these are unbalanced areas, places where it's colder in winter than it is in most places in Norway, so we Nordics should have all the opportunity to know us again in how difficult it will be to cope with winter in the mountains of Kashmir, without a house, maybe just with a tent without real heating.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1197	This question, from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes to the Minister for Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs as duly agreed. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1200	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: ‘With regard to developing countries’ tariff preferences, it is an objective that developing countries outside the MUL Group should also have better market access to Norway. NUPI has conducted a study of such a process for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. How will the Ministry follow up the study and its recommendations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1209	First, I would like to thank the representative Vallersnes for raising a very important issue, which the Government is fully committed to working hard on. As pointed out by the representative of Vallersnes, the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has conducted an independent consultant study of the Norwegian Customs Preference System for developing countries, the so-called GSP scheme. Studies include: in particular, central and principal issues related to preferential arrangements in general and a comparison with other donor countries’ tariff preferences schemes. A review of the evolution of imports from developing countries to Norway has also been carried out. The report provides a broad review of the Norwegian GSP system and makes some proposals for changes. The report and its assessments and conclusions will form part of the basis for the work now under way in proposing improvements to the current GSP system. All the departments concerned have been invited to participate in an inter-ministerial working group to examine the current GSP system. Simplifications and improvements to the current system shall be proposed. This work will be anchored in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the working group will have its first meeting in the near future. Any changes to the GSP scheme may be incorporated into the State budget, the customs proposal, for 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1218	I'd like to elaborate on this a little bit further. I am so pleased to hear that there will be further proceedings on the basis of the report and respond to what it will lead to. But to give an example, an MUL country that Bangladesh paid 23 million in 2004. kr in customs to Norway. As far as I can see, it was mainly due to the fact that some of the textile and clothing imports do not comply with the so-called rules of origin, which relate to the further processing of raw materials coming from a third country. This legislation affects the type of developing country. Is the Government willing to also consider the amendment or removal of the rules of origin?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1225	I can't promise anything on a tight arm in this regard, but I can promise the most important thing, namely that the question of Vallersnes and others will be carefully considered by this working group. Of course, I fully agree with Vallersnes that for poor countries it is essential to be able to sell goods to the rich part of the world. Bangladesh is a country that has had significant economic progress in spite of difficulties with its management system. Being able to sell e.g. textile products are essential for a country such as Bangladesh. So looking at all such schemes is something we want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1232	I thank you for your answer. A small additional element: it is also a solution for some developing countries, in order to raise imports from them, to eventually remove this tariff quota scheme, which exists on some commodities, and to replace the tariff quotas by percentages. This could help to shift imports from high-priced products to lower-priced ones. Is it also a theme that we can expect the Government to assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1239	I think you can expect us to consider all the important issues in this area. Another issue that is of course important to consider is that the vast majority of the world's poor do not live in the MUL countries alone. There are very many poor people in those countries that are not direct MUL countries, but are in the middle of nowhere. To look at how to make systems in such a way that those countries also benefit from schemes is one of the things that we haven't come to a conclusion, but that we will of course look at with a very open mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1248	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The Rain Forest Fund has revealed that the State Entra Eiendom has breached the guidelines for the use of tropical wood, as rainforests have been used in the new civil engineering construction. The Bondevik government sent a crystal clear message about the use of rainforest timber when the rainforest panel in the National Museum’s building on the Tullin onion was ordered to be removed. Will the Government order the removal of rainforests in the Law Building, and how can the Government ensure that no rainforests are used in state buildings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1257	A press release from the Rain Forest Fund on 2 July informed that a panel had been used from rainforest timber in the newly built Borgarting Law. On this basis, the department obtained a report from Entra Eiendom AS on the case. Entra, who stood for the construction, stated in the report that there was probably not sufficient care in the selection of three panels. Entra considers that the wood in question is legally exported from Ghana and has a certificate of origin stamped by the Ghanaian Chamber of Commerce. However, what is not available is an independent third-party control of the origin of the timber from sustainable plantation operations. In Norway, the use or import of rainforest timber or by-products from these wood varieties is not prohibited by law. However, the Bondevik II Government expressed in two letters from the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Labour and Administration in 2002 that the purchase of environmentally friendly products was important and that the import and use of wood from tropical timber threatened with extinction were not acceptable. The letters were not forwarded to Entra, who has however informed that they knew about the views. These are views that this government naturally fully shares. However, when we look at the possible consequences of the new building in question and know that last year the Minister of Modernisation ordered Statsbyggen to tear down the panel in the National Museum's building for the exhibition "Kyss Frosten", Entra is in my opinion in a somewhat different situation. Unlike State Building, Entra Eiendom is an independent limited liability company. The starting point is that state limited liability companies shall operate according to commercial principles, in line with well-run private enterprises under the statutes, decisions in the general meeting and Norwegian law. Political signals, initiatives and positions will not necessarily be legally binding on a limited liability company such as Entra. I am also aware that the work for Borgarting came in time before the newly built Tullinløkka. The delivery order was sent in September 2004 and the panel installed in February this year. In my view, these conditions imply a less stringent reaction form than that of the Tullin onions. Entra has complained of a breach of its own guidelines and has stated that the Norwegian Veritas is committed to carrying out a review of the company's procedures. Based on Veritas’ report, Entra has undertaken a total audit of the project and control procedures. I have also asked to be kept informed about the further work. I have also been informed that State Building in the cold water of the Tullinløkka case has further reinforced its procedures, and that it is included in each contractor's contract a ban on the use of illegal wood. The reinforced procedures were to prevent the use of rainforests in state buildings for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1270	I am aware that the department sent a letter to Entra Eiendom on 17 November, the same day that I reported my question, where one says that one looks seriously at what has happened and that is the theme of my question. That's good. It is also unequivocally stated that there is a breach of existing guidelines from Entra. That's good, too. What I'm talking about here is that one suggests that Entra's form of company means that one has such a free position that the state can't impose reactions if one violates these guidelines. I'm reacting to that, because the parties that make up the Government now have said that one of the points of having government companies is that they're going to be used to run the policy. I expect the Council of State to be clearly informed that if there were to be a new breach of the guidelines, one would have to assume that it would have consequences. This means that one may have to assume that panels listed in contravention of the guidelines will have to be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1277	As I said in my first answer: I fully share the views expressed by the previous government on this matter. However, it is my opinion that Entra is in a different situation than Statsbyggen when they were ordered to demolish the panel in the National Museum's building for the exhibition "Kyss Frosten". I guess the last Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has seen it the same way that I am here expressing. It is at least a fact that he failed to give any crystal clear message in the matter from he became acquainted with it on July 2nd and until the government change on October 17th. I expect a state limited liability company to behave ethically and to be aware of its social responsibility. The goal must be to prevent something similar from happening again. I have therefore sent a letter, to which the representative of Kvassheim also referred, to the board of Entra Eiendom AS, stating that I assume that the company will strengthen the requirements for documentation of material use, and that these will be absolute and inevitable. In my view, it is correct that the board of Entra comments on the matter, and sharpens the project and control procedures in its report for 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1286	I would ask the Council of State to confirm that there will not be a kind of ‘light’ variant of the expectations of Entra in relation to other state builders, but that these are the same expectations, and that the same clear reactions will have to be expected if these expectations are broken. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will investigate the ban on the import of tropical wood. Can the Council of State say anything about the timing of such an investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1293	To the last one first. I cannot provide a time perspective for that investigation, but I can confirm that the investigation is being carried out. I can also confirm that I agree with the expectations that the representative is asking for. But I would also like to make it clear that giving orders and instructions to a corporation is a bit more complicated. My active management tool will be open dialogue – governance through general meetings, governance through share laws and corporate governance. So it will be the governance signals that it is possible to give to the limited liability company.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1302	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «Many storms and heavy rainfall have caused serious problems in many places in the country and especially in the West during this fall. As we know from long periods of bad weather in the past, the road network is particularly vulnerable to race. Surveys show that there are 540 raspensions only on the national road network, with a total length of approximately 3 500 km. It will take between 30 and 40 years to ensure the race of all national and county roads with the level of today’s funding. What will the Council of State do to strengthen and enforce the work on racial protection of national and county roads?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1311	In the 2006-2009 action programme, there is a focus on racial protection. Based on the management of the National Transport Plan 2006–2015 by Stortinget, the Ministry of Transport has set up a State planning framework of 1250 million. kr to specific racial security measures for the period 2006-2009. In addition, there are estimated benefits of 750 million. kr in government funds for projects and measures with racial protection gains within the ordinary framework of national road investment. And it's going to be about 500 million. DKK in other funding, in order to make a total use of approximately DKK 2,5 billion of racial protection measures over the period 2006-2009. In St. prp. No 1 for 2005–06, it has been estimated that around 520 million will be used. SEK for the project and actions with racial protection gains in 2006. The Stoltenberg II government has made suggestions to increase the investment in specific racial protection measures by 50 million. kr. Racial protection may increase further if the municipalities and test areas prioritize projects and measures with racial protection gains within the enhanced framework for investment on the national road network otherwise. I will continue to work to increase the rate of racial protection, so that the framework of the 2006-2009 action programme is followed up. When it comes to the design of roads, the State Road Service is working to assess the dimensioning of drainage systems as a consequence of climate change. We also need to look at alternative measures, such as better monitoring and faster road closure to prevent accidents. I want racial and Flemish protection to be high on the agenda of the planning work of the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency. In this context, I have sent letters to the two departments with challenges about how the consequences of more extreme weather should affect the planning work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1322	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is important that the Council of State focuses on this challenging area, an area that makes many quite unsafe in their everyday lives – not only the travellers but also the people who live across the whole country. Anxiety and letter writing are one thing – clear and fair money is another. When the national transport plan was discussed, the majority – consisting of the current government parties and the Progress Party – showed both for the report of the National Scrambler Group and for the mapping of the State Road Administration, which shows a need of DKK 15–17 billion. If you don't get started, this $50 million bet. kr from the Government in exchange for the large proven need for NOK 15–17 billion, for small sums to be counted? Is the Minister for Transport satisfied with this effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1329	Governments are fully aware of the major challenges in the field of racial protection. I'm also well-informed about the calculations that are done when it comes to the need. When it comes to the framework provided by the Government for the 2006 budget, I think that the sum allowed for racial protection shows a clear direction and a clear prioritisation of the funds available to the Ministry of Transport. I will follow it up in the budgets ahead, and – as I said – I will put racial protection on the agenda both in planning and in budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1336	I thank you again for the answer. The follow-up is probably exactly 50 pst. of things such as: The centre party was involved in the national transport plan through a joint comment with the Workers' Party and SV – and with subsidiary support from the Progress Party. Regrettably, the allocations to this important area have often been a climb to the transport budget. There have often been political responses to exceptional situations that have led to race — more than planned and systematic efforts to make roads in Norway safe for most people. Norway needs an overall plan to prevent damaged road links and avoid articulated accidents. But if the plan is to be meaningful, it must be accompanied by money and obliging investment from the state, which sits primarily on the money bag. Will the Council of State take the initiative to draw up a national racial security plan — with both a time frame and a financial framework — that can give people hope for racially safe roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1347	This Council of State has a seat in the Council of State for a month or so. I have not been given all the assessments to be made in this field – nor in this field, I may have to say. The question raised by the representative of Sortevik I will come back to. I agree with the representative that we need plans, but the most important thing is that we might follow up with economic resources. And we do not do that through planning – it does so by ensuring that the decision in the national transport plan is followed up, and that we thus have the right to prioritise racial protection throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1358	«In response to questions asked by Gunnar Gundersen, the Council of State has stated that it recognises that important safety work is being carried out by private individuals, but it does not clearly answer the issue of whether safety cannot be ensured as well by private individuals as by public authorities, provided that requirements are specified. This is common both in aviation, maritime and road. Does the Council of State have a different attitude than the ideological and negative one found in the Soria Moria Declaration?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1365	I can assure the representative of Greece that I have great confidence that private companies can take care of the security in a good way, something like that. aviation is a good example. What I'm busy with is that the conversion of central social functions should not result in a pressure on efficiency in such a way that it weakens the safety of the travellers. That doesn't mean that private companies don't set security high. But that means that we, as regulators, have to make sure that important changes in society take place at a pace and in such a way that security is maintained in a good way. That's what is reflected in the Soria Moria statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1374	The new Minister for Transport has adopted a negative attitude to the outsourcing of competition. A reversal of the railway works’ outsourcing, termination of the Posten’s exclusive right – announced today – scepticism for the OPS project and review and evaluation of Avinor are some examples. After all, outsourcing has been a means of getting more money for transportation. The State has different oversight functions — Air traffic control, railway supervision, etc. – to ensure safety and to impose requirements on operators in the field of transport. It therefore seems to me that the Minister for Transport is pushing safety ahead in order to stop competition in the field of transport. The Soria Moria Declaration states: «The Government considers that substantial competitive outsourcing in the transport sector is at the expense of important security and preparedness functions.» Will the Council of State address the claims made in the Soria Moria Declaration here and now with examples of a deterioration in safety and preparedness in Norway as a result of competitive outsourcing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1388	Governments are not pushing security. Governments are currently busy, all of which should be that security should be the most important within the sphere of transport. In addition, this government is busy that we should have services where people live, close to where people live, and that the demand for efficiency and economic gain should not overshadow social interests for people throughout the country. So we want to evaluate what has been on offer. We already have work going on postponing local bus services, which will also have transfer value to other areas of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1393	I did not get an answer to my question, namely, about what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, that competitive outsourcing is at the expense of important security and preparedness functions. I fully agree with the Council of State that security must be ensured. That is why the Air Safety Authority, the Railway Authority, etc. created. There are so many private players in this market, and as the council itself pointed out in a response to Gunnar Gundersen: within aviation this goes well – it writes the council itself. Most airlines are private, which shows that private companies are able to ensure the highest level of safety. I would therefore like to know: why do the government parties use the Soria Moria declaration to so question putting off competition, i.e. giving private opportunities to perform a service on behalf of the public weakens security? I think it is a serious claim that needs to be made. If the Council of State can't do this, I expect her to come back to Stortinget with a review of what measures have weakened security.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1400	Point 1: The Council of State shall return to the Grand Duchy with a reply when the evaluation of the competitive exposure, as we have now started, is completed. Point 2: When the Soria Moria Declaration states that competitive outsourcing can compromise important security considerations, it is because competitive outsourcing is a good means of saving economic resources, for economic efficiency. But we'll see about one with that goal, the goal of economic efficiency, also taking care of society in a good enough way. It is also true when it comes to aircraft, which has our theme here, that Avinor and the air navigation service are directly a public responsibility per. today. We have good operators who take good care of security and provide services. But it is Avinor and the air navigation service that ensure that the important safety concerns are taken. Of course, we also have the Air Safety Authority, which again has a supervisory role and performs it in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1414	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘NSB Offer AS takes over transport at Gjøvikbanen from 1 June 2006. The driving time is reduced to 1 hour and 55 minutes with a reduction target of 1 hour and 45 minutes on the Oslo-Gjøvik route. If this reduction in travel time is to be achieved, infrastructure improvements must be carried out including crossing tracks and improvement of power supply. When will the Council of State submit a plan for the long-term bet on the Gjøvik course?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1423	When NSB Anbud AS takes over the transport on Gjøvikbana from June 2006 there is a route with a somewhat reduced running time and a timetable with more ‘rigid routes’ compared to today’s train service. In 2005, the Railway Agency made provision for the types of measures needed on the Gjøvik Railway to achieve further improvements in the supply of passengers, including: to arrive at a travel time of 1 hour and 45 minutes between Gjøvik and Oslo S. Current actions in this context include strengthening the power supply, extending and building new crossing tracks and remote control of the Roa-Gjøvik sub-section. The total cost of these measures is approximately 450 million. kr. Strengthened power supply is within the first four-year period 2006-2009 of the Railway Agency’s action programme, based on Stortinget’s decision on planning frameworks in the context of the management of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015. Measures on the Gjøvik track are otherwise prioritised according to the same criteria as other infrastructure measures on the network. The implementation of measures to achieve a runtime of 1 hour and 45 minutes will therefore depend on the priorities of the annual government budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1432	I thank you for your answer. It is okay that the Railway Agency has already completed its planning and that the costs have been calculated at 450 million. kr, which is actually a small sum in the case of railway measures. In the setting up of the National Transport Plan, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Progress Party had a common note that quite large sums were to be invested to get the railway up and running. When it's a small sum this time, does it mean that the railway will be given higher priority next time you present a budget? Does the Minister for Transport Gjøvikbanen have in mind? Or will it be like it's been every year, putting in power supply and crossing tracks, and then there's nothing in real money?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1441	The Gjøvik Railway is one of several major routes envisaged by the Council of State when the 2007 budget is to be planned and presented. I want to demand the right to take the budgetary processes first and bring the answer to the Storting then, and do not take the budget management over the table here in the Storting today. But I have noticed the question, and I have noticed the wishes of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1446	You'll take it for years, and then it's probably understood that you're moving away from the national transport plan, which is really a long-term planning strategy. In the tender process that was, the State saved 20 million. kr. In addition, we got 40 pst. increase of routes. And today it's 1.3 million travelers, so it's not exactly a small railway; it's actually one of the larger ones, traffic-related. It's 1.6 million train kilometres, which is also a pretty big production, you can look at the individual areas. So, despite the whole increase that came, this offer has been drastically saved. Isn't it quite natural that the department can use some of the savings to improve the structure of the railway body on the Gjøvik track?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1455	The President will take note of the fact that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1458	I note that the question is asked in a slightly different way, but the answer must unfortunately be the same. I definitely see that this is a train section with many travelers, and that this is important for those who owe it. But I have to get back to Stortinget with the answer in the 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1469	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘From the examination of the national transport plan last year and throughout the electoral campaign, the Socialist Left Party, the Labour Party and the Central Party travelled around the country and the beach and promised 22 billion. kr more to traffic than the centre-right government. The draft budget of the new government must be characterised as the belly of the year. It's a lifting break of dimensions. The Council of State will be able to cope with an increase next year, which will then have to be in the order of 4 billion. kr?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1478	The government has had about three weeks to submit proposals for changes to the draft budget by the Bondevik II Government. That time we have spent well, I say, and we have taken the first important steps to fulfill the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. Local economy and kindergartens are particularly priority areas in the additional proposal from the Government, similar to culture, but it is also advisable to increase the permissions to include: road and rail. I can assure the representative Halleraker that I will work hard to increase the path to both road and rail in the coming state budget. In the Government's add-on to St.prp. No 1 for 2006 it is advisable to allow 250 million. kr more for road infrastructure and 182 mill. kr more for railway infrastructure, compared to Bondevik II. In addition, it is advisable to allow 28 million. to improve the discount schemes for national road ferries. So we've got a little bit on the road in 2006, and the government has shown a direction. The goal is to go a long way further in the 2007 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1487	I thank you for your answer. The follow-up by Bondevik II to its own national transport plan is reasonably well maintained. It was also Bondevik II's own follow-up to the Sem declaration. However, the red-green follow-up is highly deficient. And when you mention three weeks, I think I have to make the Council aware that you've had over a year to prepare for the promises that this majority agreed on in the NTP. My question is whether the aftermath will be included. Confidence in politics is important. We took the burden of being on a responsible line in relation to the NTP throughout the election campaign, so I have to be allowed to repeat the question: Can the Minister of Transport promise that the majority government will follow its own road and rail promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1496	Firstly, I can come back to a discussion about the follow-up rate of the Bondevik administration in relation to the action plan. Secondly, there was a majority decision in the national transport plan that the Bondevik government did not follow up on proposals for 2006. I'll just mention that. Thirdly, the Government has the intention of fulfilling what is in the Soria Moria Declaration, and what is on the road. And, as I said to the previous representative who asked questions, the budget procedure would probably have to take place in different forums than in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1501	I thank you again for the answer, but I am not more reassured as to whether this follow-up is going to happen. I think you could say here, at least in the case of District Norway, that in many ways you were involved and won a choice of promises you don't fulfill. And I think that the follow-up of the government's own promises to those degrees is deficient. And: Does the Council of State think this is fit to strengthen the credibility of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1506	The government shall measure its work after four years, not after a good month. I have expectations that the government through its good work will meet the expectations that people have for us. Both in cities and in districts in this country, expectations are high, and that is good. It's good to have untiring voters breathing us in the neck. It is also good to have big-time representatives who ask questions and so see us breathing in the neck and sister so that we comply with what we have promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1515	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the autumn, work will start on a new railway station on Lysaker. The challenge with this important hub is that the gap between platform and train is so great that it creates problems for, among other things, the elderly, disabled, children and people with baby carriages. For some groups it may be impossible to board. According to Asker and Bærums Budstikke, the Railway Agency says that there is nothing they can do. Is this agreed by the Council of State with the Railway Agency?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1524	In various contexts, the Ministry of Transport stresses the importance of the railway system’s emphasis on universal design, both in planning and in implementing measures at Norwegian railway stations. The Ministry has specifically asked the Railway Agency to look at the accessibility of stations on a curve, and at new facilities for wheelchair users and others with reduced functionality. The Ministry has requested a specific allocation from the Railway Agency before 1 December 2005 on its plans for the implementation of the universal design principle for stations during the forthcoming planning period. I have also requested that the Railway Agency, in cooperation with NSB AS and Flytoget AS, present a specific assessment of both the possibilities and consequences of changing the plans for the conversion of Lysaker station. If it is not possible to change any of the plans for the refurbishment of the station, I have asked the Railway Agency to look at possible measures to remedy the disadvantages experienced by the passengers in the event of disembarkation and disembarkation. I have specifically asked for such an assessment to be made in dialogue with the State Railway Authority. I want to follow up on this case to search for the best possible solutions for the travellers at the new Lysaker station.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1531	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Both a mass collapse and former Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm have given clear instructions to the Railway Agency. 1 December 2005 was also a D-day for Bondevik II – that is quite right – when it came to ensuring accessibility, especially at stations with curves and new installations. This applies to the maximum Lysaker station. Can the Council of State promise to follow this up and ensure good accessibility for everyone at Lysaker station?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1538	Lying station has a long history. The planning started in 1991, and it was the Bondevik government that made decisions when it failed to implement. In the short time that I have been sitting in the council chair, I have all had meetings with the Railway Agency, with the NSB, with the Fly train, with the municipality of Bærum and with the organisations of the disabled. But it's clear that time has gone by, and that it can be difficult now to start reworking. However, I want to assess the overall width of the case to look at all possible solutions, to make it as good as possible for disabled people. So it's important to consider whether to go into the planning process, as I see it is complicated, or whether to find compensatory solutions that will enable those with reduced function to use new Lysaker Station in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1545	I again thank the Council of State for the answer, and of course I am pleased with those initiatives. The progress of the Lysaker station is very important, both in relation to the double track and in relation to the further development of Fornebu. What will the Council of State do to ensure the availability of Lysaker station, while maintaining the objective of opening in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1552	The representative is now focusing on what is the big challenge. As long as you're going to have a station on a curve, there'll be big challenges to providing a good answer to accessibility. But it is possible to apply measures, and I know that the Railway Agency is working on this. There are monitors for monitoring the vehicle sides, a wide platform edge with tactile plastics, a safety line with light one metre from track, heat in platform, a guide line – which is part of the Norwegian Blind Federation – and, of course, a railing and other regulatory considerations on ramps and steps with handrails. Own detectors have also been assessed to alert the train crew if an accident occurs and someone falls between trains and platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1559	We go to question 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1566	This question, from Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister of Health and Welfare, has been transferred to the Minister of Transport as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1569	I'm going to ask the Minister for Transport a question. ‘The Landing Chair provides some good opportunities for disabled people to move in otherwise difficult-to-reach landscapes. For this group, it is particularly valuable to be able to move in open-air areas and places where one cannot travel in normal wheelchairs. The land is now classified as a motorcycle and subject to charges so that the Rikstrygdenwerk no longer covers the costs, but the only option for the user is to choose between the car and the ground. Will the Council of State contribute to the reclassification of the Road Directorate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1578	The representative Nesvik refers to the ground as a wheelchair. According to the requirements of the traffic rules, the terrain is too long, too wide and too heavy to be defined as a wheelchair and has not been classified as a wheelchair at any time. Wheelchair is a device designed to be used for the mobility of persons. The main point with the dimensions of the wheelchair is that it should replace the user's running function and make it easier for the user to get there, not only on the pavement, but also in shops, lifts and buildings. The ground is, among others. due to its width, not able to pass through default doors to enter buildings. The requirements for wheelchairs under traffic control were laid down in 1998 in consultation with other countries. their organisations. Among other things, Norway’s Handicap Association and the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons were involved in this work and were mainly some in the definition of what could be called a wheelchair. In connection with this assessment, Terregen was also assessed separately. As the terrain is now designed, and with the current legislation, it must be classified as a motorcycle. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has stated that there is no automatic link between the Road Directorate’s classification of the vehicle and the actual user coverage of the vehicle. These questions are now being considered in the Swedish National Agency for Social Security, and final conclusions on what could be covered by expenditure cannot be made. A solution that could clarify the questions related to the ground is that the manufacturer intervenes so that the vehicle can be classified as a motor vehicle. In order to obtain such a classification, the manufacturer must lower the peak speed so that it does not exceed 6 km/h. Today, Terregen has a top speed of 9.8 km/h, after I have been informed. To follow up this case, I would like to ask the Directorate of Road to contact the manufacturer to clarify what needs to be done to get the terrain classified as a motor vehicle. If user organisations do not find such a solution acceptable, I would like to have a meeting with them to discuss what we can do together to find an even better solution. These solutions could involve changes to several regulations, so this must take some time to ensure a proper handling of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1595	I thank the Council of State for a long answer. Unfortunately, I'm not satisfied with the content, simply because it seems like you're trying to find reasons why you have the code instead of trying to do something about the code to help users. It is also not true what is said here, that user organisations have agreed to this classification. When this was out for consultation in 1996, Norway’s Handicap Association had its own consultation opinion, which was aimed at asking that what be done about the objectives be looked at, and what could possibly be classified as a wheelchair. But it doesn't make sense when you refer to this with the velocity. It's just one of the advantages of this special wheelchair because you have to move over distances and over time before you get to the terrain where you want to use it. I hope that the Council of State can complete its own answer in a more positive way and say that, yes, we will do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1602	Governments must stick to the legislation. The traffic rules § 1 (l) define the requirement for dimensions to be classified as wheelchairs, and it is very important in this image: length not more than 180 cm, width not more than 80 cm and weight not more than 250 kg are the rules that apply in Norway today. The running gear Terregen has a specific weight of 270 kg, is 2 m long and 112 cm wide. The ground is not a wheelchair after this, and is now subject to the rules of our traffic rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1609	Here again, the Council of State shows a very passive attitude. It's not to inform the Council of State, but it's of course that if you disagree with the legislation that's there, it's actually the Council of State and the Council of State in the next round that can change it. If the Council of State wants to do something about this matter, she can actually do it. Here it stands on the will. My challenge to the Council of State is to try to be accommodating, so that this group comes out into the wild – which has also been an explicit objective of an overall increase in the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2002–2003 Disability reduction. And then the Council of State, in the opinion of the undersigned, almost makes a leap of curvature to try to get away from the fact that the Council of State can change the legislation. I hope the Council of State here will give the impression that you will now look at the legislation to help these users to a real everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1616	I don't think the representative has listened to what the council said. I said that I would go into the legislation, and that it might take some time to change the regulations so that this would be possible. One has to put down the hastyness. The Directorate of Roads is not allowed today to depart from the definitions, so the Council of State must intervene. That's what I said in my first answer that I want to do. Together with the organisations, we will go into the matter and, if necessary, change the regulations. Then I thought respectfully that the representative might not have responded fully to the answer I gave to the first question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1621	Then we go back to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1628	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The Oslo City Council has announced an application for testing in two mandatory foreign languages at primary school in Oslo. Will the Council of State be prepared to allow such an experiment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1637	Under the Test Home of the Training Act § 1-4, the Ministry may, upon application by the municipality, authorise the waiving of the Training Act or its regulations in connection with time-limited pedagogical or organisational trials. The examination centre applies according to its wording in relation to all the provisions of the Training Act and all the regulations given by law. The Ministry has concluded that it is necessary to set some limits on what is acceptable in the case of trials affecting the rights and obligations of individuals. In practice, it has been argued that there can be no intervention in the basic obligation and the right to free primary education or the right to special education. In some cases, however, it has been found acceptable by trial, subject to the consent of the individual student/consultant involved in the experiment. This applies, for example: trials exempting from the requirement for grades at the level of youth. In general, there has also been a call for broad consensus on the test locally before it is granted. Tests shall also be subject to real testing. The aim must be to find out whether a better system can be found and that experience can provide a basis for assessing legislative changes. It is therefore not sufficient to consider that the legislation is not appropriate at local level. Granted trials must be evaluated. I do not think it is right to prejudge the handling of any trial request from the Parliamentary Chair. Should the municipality send such an application, the county council is initially the addressee of the application, since the authority to grant the test has been delegated to this office.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1653	So the Council of State comments on it, there's nothing formal that prevents experimentation. The experiment must be real, and it must be real. Such an experiment that has been discussed in Oslo is about the Oslo School, which is special and exciting in the sense that the Oslo School has 35 pst. students with a minority background. Nowhere else in Norway is such a situation. There's a lot of good going on in that school -- a lot of it can be proud, both teachers, parents and students. The attempt I am asking about now has a certain interest because it also affects the possibility of an integration policy context, by saying, for example. that the second foreign language need not be German, Spanish or French, it may be Arabic or Urdu. By expressing itself that way, you say directly to those who go to school, that their resources are important. When I allow myself to ask the question, it is because I perceive that the minister of knowledge is to recognise knowledge on a broad basis, to see people on a broad basis and to make them proud of what they stand for. That's why I formulated myself the way I did.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1658	I will not prejudge an application from Oslo. It will be treated by the State. The municipality of Oslo is, of course, free to formulate an application that they consider appropriate. If I understood the representative Dørum right now, he also thought it would be possible to have languages other than the four specifically mentioned. This is – as far as I am able to remember on standing feet – already allowed, so you don't have to have a test shelter for it. But, as I said, it must be up to the Municipality of Oslo to send an application to the County Council, and therefore I will not go further into this now. That would be incorrect in relation to the formal proceedings in such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1663	I respect the fact that the Council of State chooses a line where he will await an application, and that it will be dealt with effectively and openly. I'm aware that you can go into other languages. The essence of this experiment, for which it is announced that it will be applied for and supported by a political majority in Oslo, is that two mandatory foreign languages will be available, precisely to improve the situation both educationally and for those concerned. But I thank the Council of State for having stood up so that on a real basis he can be open to considering this, and has not forged a solution. I see that as a positive signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1670	In what I'm saying now, there's probably no political signal, other than that there are formal procedures that need to be followed if you want to try in Norwegian school. It is clear that these procedures are there for it to be possible for a municipality to apply, and therefore it would be wrong for me to forge any of this, all the time, as I understand the representative, there will be an application from the municipality of Oslo to the county. The county will then have the right office to deal with the application in line with the legislation we have. So in this there's nothing else than that of course we follow the procedures that apply to this type of trial application.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1679	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: «Our country presents a report from the IFO Institute in Germany on 24 October. The report is based on the 2004 TIMSS study and also draws on the OECD report ‘Education at a gloss’ from 2005. One of the main conclusions of the IFO Institute is that there is no correlation between the number of students in a class and their learning outcomes. The Minister of Knowledge rejects these findings in cash. What research evidence does the Council of State have to reject these research results?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1688	I'm very concerned about the quality of Norwegian school. That's why I want a discussion about what can do better for the school. How can we improve students' professional learning outcomes, and how can we develop the basic skills of students better than what we do today? Everyone knows that this can only be achieved through an overall effort using several instruments that contribute in the same direction. One of the most important tools is the empowerment of teachers — an action that is mutually agreed in Norway and which we are doing well. In addition, I think it is important how large student groups the individual teacher is responsible for. Everyone who's been to school knows that it's easier to stay calm in a group of 15 students than in a group of 30 students. Everyone also knows that it is important that the teacher has time to give each individual student attention, which is, of course, easier when there are fewer students. With regard to the report of the IFO Institute in Germany, it is important to clarify some aspects. First, there is a mistake that the questioner claims, that it concludes that there is no correlation between the number of students in a class and their learning outcomes. On the contrary, it shows such a relationship for the younger and the weaker students. Furthermore, it is important to be aware that although a research report does not demonstrate such a relationship, it does not necessarily mean that there is no coherence. The kind of research that this is about is difficult, with major methodological problems. It is therefore important to use research critically and not to place too much emphasis on a single study. In this specific case, it is important to me that the report only measures professional learning outcomes and not other matters that may be significant. That is why I want to include the report from the IFO Institute in the further work to improve Norwegian school, but do not attach greater weight than the individual report actually deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1697	I record that the Council of State does not have any research basis to reject any findings in the report, and I think it is nice that he is now considering taking the report with him in the further work. Knowledge of the school depends on knowledge of the school. What has surprised me a little bit in several ways after the Council of State joined, is that, as Minister of Knowledge and Research, he rejects research as such, very often because the conclusions of the research do not correspond to what the Government stands for politically, more specifically expressed through the Government Declaration. We had a similar situation in Tabloid on November 14. Then the reporter asked, "Don't you believe in the research on kindergartens and children? Then Øystein Djupedal said, "No, I don't know this research at all, and I don't believe in it!" Does the Council agree that it is important to be open to all types of knowledge and research in order to create a better school?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1708	The latest research study referred to here is a research report related to child education in the United States and related to some specific American conditions that are not parallel to the Norwegian child education. I think everyone will agree with that. This does not mean that research is rejected as such, but the relevance of research to what this debate is about, namely, kindergartens and child rearing. This report we are discussing here – the report of the IFO Institute in Germany – is a report by many, and a research report that we will of course include, like many other research reports. This research report has some methodological weaknesses that I have pointed out. This means that the conclusion is not as clear as Ine Marie Eriksen later on as here on this issue. This means that this and many other research results are important to improve learning outcomes in Norwegian school. And let me say that this is what we agree on, that's what's the starting point for me as a Minister of Knowledge and I also hope for the opposition: that we're going to create a better learning environment in the class so that our children learn more, and that the teachers are better able to care for each student. This is an important starting point, namely that teachers should have the opportunity to attend to each individual student.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1715	My main concern here is not to discuss the content of the report. My main concern is that the Council of State rejects research because he does not like the political content of them. It's a development I want to warn against. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to ask what research-related evidence the Council of State has to go in to eliminate the mandatory other foreign language. In a debate on NRK Lunch TV on 8 November, the Council of State said that the failure of the electoral profession as a language was alarming, that two-thirds of people fell off, and that the solution was not to make the subject compulsory. Later in the day, the Council of State gave a talk at the Workers' Party at the People's House, and according to the report in the evening post the next day, the Council of State said that there is no point in making the subject compulsory, because we have no disqualification in the subject. On which of the two bases does the Council of State base its decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1722	I don't remember these quotes, and you have to take all the journalistic records with a pinch of salt. What's right is that in today's school we have a significant decline from foreign language. For some of these languages, this is as much as 2/3, for some less than that. This applies to both German and French. Our starting point is that we want to create an exciting foreign language in school that many students want. There should be a qualifying foreign language with a new type of pedagogics and a practical approach that allows students to acquire the knowledge that enables them to master the language. This is very valuable to the individual, this is very valuable to the school, and this is very valuable to our society. What distinguishes us from the previous government is that we want to give students a slightly greater degree of freedom of choice, so that some students can choose depression in English, depression in Norwegian or depression in Sami. I have always been amazed that the Right Party is now taking up the fight against freedom of choice in school within qualifying options. That must be the right choice. We agree that we should have a good language course in school as an alternative to another language course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1737	I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘The promise was adopted by a total increase in the spring of 2005. The development of curricula has continued for a long time and there are approved plans for a wide range of subjects. Norwegian teachers, students and educational tool developers have long prepared for the implementation of the Knowledge promise as planned from the 2006 school year onwards. Can the Council of States confirm that adopted curricula are not being changed and that the timetable for unadopted plans is being complied with, and if not, what consequences will it have for the reform implementation plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1746	The comprehensive syllabi for primary and secondary education are defined. My impression is that these curricula are well received by the trade unions, and the development of competence is well underway in municipalities and county municipalities. I therefore see no need to make changes to these curricula. As a result of the decision that other foreign languages should not be mandatory in secondary school, I will consider the need to change the professional and hourly distribution and adjust the curriculum for those who first start with other foreign languages in secondary education. However, this work will have no impact on the implementation of the Knowledge Lift. I am also concerned that students and apprentices will develop a broader basic competence. I would therefore like to clarify the responsibility of the schools and educational establishments to develop students' social skills, learning strategies and motivation in a new part II of the curriculum that sets out principles and frameworks for training. This new part will apply to all levels of initial training and include the learning plaque. I intend to send part II of the curriculum at the hearing in spring 2006 and finalize it before school starts in 2006–2007. The curricula of the Vg1 vocational training programmes have just been consulted. I'm aware that some critical statements have come to some of these curricula. The Vocational Training Cooperation Council, SRY, claims that the curricula for the professions could be completed in good time if the social partners were consulted during the processing phase. I take it as a matter of course that the Education Directorate will carefully evaluate the opinions in order to ensure the best possible quality in the curricula. To assess the progress of the Knowledge promise, I met with all the organisations concerned on 8 November. All organisations are very positive to the main lines of the Knowledge Lift, but some disagree at the time of the introduction of new curricula in higher education. The student organisation and two of the teacher organisations believe that the preparations have not come far enough to start the Knowledgelift in higher education since the autumn of 2006. The KS, the county councils and the social partners, on the other hand, believe that the preparations are well underway and that a postponement will be very debilitating. I consider that the preparations for the reform are on track both centrally and in each municipality and county. There is therefore no reason to deviate from the schedule to which Stortinget has previously agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1761	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I sum it up so that it is only related to other foreign languages that this government will make changes, and that one has the same progress plan as the Bondevik II government had. It means a ‘go’ for those who produce learning material and must also mean a ‘go’ for those who implement curricula. What I'm asking is whether the Council of State wants to have a dialogue not only with the organizations at school, but also with those responsible for the production of educational materials, to ensure that they also have the security of progress they can have in the production of textbooks.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1772	At the meeting on 8 November I also had a meeting with the Publishing Association. The publishing association is very clear that it wants a start-up in the autumn of 2006, also in view of the production of textbooks already in progress. We want to do what we can on the part of the department and the county councils in the future to get the information on the promise of knowledge to parents and students to make good and safe choices. So some of these processes will necessarily take some time -- they've been going on over some time. This will mean doing what we can to eliminate uncertainty and uncertainty. It also means that we need to cooperate with both the Stortinget and the County Municipality in order to achieve this. The promise of knowledge is a major and comprehensive reform, and the anchoring of the Stortinget is deep. This, hopefully, will be a significant promise of knowledge for Norwegian schools. At least this government shall do what it can to ensure, in cooperation with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1779	It is reassuring as long as the Council of State relates to the progress plan of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1788	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘‘The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has expressed, in a letter to the Stortinget, that he wants to have broad and close contact with all employee and employer organisations. Today’s Business Day, November 11, 2005, reveals that the Government has leaked the disputed consultation proposal on new work environment law to LO before giving it to other organisations. The councils themselves admit the leakage. Does the Council of State consider that this type of selective leakage to one of the parties is reliable, and will the Council of State regret the incident?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1797	It is right that the Government is concerned about having a broad and close relationship with the social partners. This is important in many areas, both to contribute to a working life where people thrive and develop, and thus also to an effective working life, and to promote the most inclusive working life. As we know, we have presented proposals for changes to the work environment law adopted by the previous enlargement. In this work we invited the largest employers’ and employees’ organisations to a meeting where a draft amendments were presented. In the newspaper article it is referred to, it appears to me that it was unfortunate that the LO had delivered the material before this meeting. It shouldn't have happened; our intention is, of course, to follow the procedures and the rules of the game that exist in the relationship between the authorities and the parties. We want a continuing close and trusting relationship with the social partners, and I have strong faith that we will get to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1808	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What made this episode particularly boring and extra serious was the fact that only days before this took place, the Council of State had expressed in writing to the Right Major Group in a letter of reply to a question we asked, that a broad and close contact was desired with all employee and employer organisations. This tripartite cooperation between the social partners – the authorities, employees and employers – is based on basic trust and respect between the parties. Does the Council not see that leakages of this kind can help to weaken this cooperation, destroy this cooperation and destroy trust between the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1813	Yes, and therefore I am not underestimating this matter at all. I have also made it very clear in my department that this will not happen, and that must not happen again. And just because I'm taking it so seriously, I also had a meeting with Finn Bergesen in NHO, where I said the same thing, that it shouldn't be. When we both say and believe that we should have a close and proper relationship with all the social partners, it must be done on the basis that the parties do not experience a situation like this. This was an accident at work, and it should not repeat itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1818	I thank you for that answer. In conclusion, I just want to follow up on saying that on the part of Stortinget we will probably follow as a blacksmith to ensure that the government's contact with the social partners is based on equality and respect for all parties, and that there will be no special arrangements for one of the parties. I understand from the answers he has now given, that it will not be possible in the future to have a special arrangement for LO that does not include the other social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1823	I feel absolutely sure that Stortinget will look after it as a blacksmith. It should just be missing, and we have to be happy to find it in it. I think the questioner now puts words in my mouth that I have not used. We're going to have professional political cooperation between the Workers' Party and the LO, and it's well known that we have it. But what has happened in this case is that the LO has been given a draft legal text that the other organisations have not received. It's far from professional political cooperation, and that's exactly what I'm saying: we're not going to have any of that kind of cooperation with the different organisations. When we invite a consultation meeting with the organisations for a legal text, it must of course be so that all organisations have equal access to that legal text. But that doesn't mean I'm liquidating the professional political cooperation between the Workers' Party and the LO.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1834	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘According to Deputy Director Sissel Kofoed of the Ministry of Justice, there must have been a practice in the early 1990s on the use of concessions to reduce the pay queue. Does the Council of State consider such a practice to be acceptable and will the Council of State ensure that such a practice is not reinstated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1843	I believe that the background to this question is an entry in the NRK-Dag News where the department was asked to comment on fluctuations in the number of granted applications in the 1990s. In this context, the NRC asked in particular for an explanation of why a high number of persons were granted apologies in 1992, 1993 and 1994. I find it appropriate to stress that common pardon practices were followed early in the 1990s, but that the considerable balance of compensation at that time led to more people qualifying for a pardon. This was especially the time, a long time between judgment and atonement, which caused more people to be pardoned than normal. This was particularly pronounced in relation to persons who were sentenced to short and unconditional prison sentences for less serious cases and who were not given priority in relation to the rapid call for compensation. Several were also granted a pardon because of circumstances that had occurred while they were in the queue, e.g. serious illness or particularly positive development. As Minister of Justice, I understand that such a practice was followed in situations where the time could not be put to the burden of judgment. The size was informed of the above situation through the reporting of the number of applications for acknowledgment, concessions and refusals sent routinely to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinge every six months. Together with the statistics, the Control and Constitutional Committee was also provided with all State Council lectures for transparency. Int. S. No 107 for the period 1 July 1992 to 30 June 1993 by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which was issued in the context of the examination of the government protocols, the theme of restitution and renunciation was specifically addressed. In this respect, the members of the Committee from the Right, the Centre, the Christian People's Party and the Party of Advancement expressed concern that a long period of time between the conviction and the settlement was used as a basis for granting a pardon. However, it was shown that: ‘To be called to a pardon many years after the conviction if the sentence has in the meantime behaved well and come to terms with family and work life could be devastating both for the individual, the family and the community.’ None of these members signaled that the Ministry of Justice should change its pardon practices, but instead asked the Ministry to step up its efforts and reduce the pay queues, so that waiting time from restitution usually lapses as a matter of renunciation. The number of cases in which pardons were granted for unconditional prison sentences was about 45 in 2004, and is approximately 45 in 2004. 11 to date in 2005. These figures are below the average for the number of applications for pardon for unconditional prison sentence from 1995 until now. Today's restitution remains at approx. In the early 1990s, 2350 judges are significantly below the pay balance. In the event of a substantial increase in the amount of restitution, it cannot be excluded that this may affect the number of persons admitted to unconditional imprisonment. As Minister of Justice, I would therefore like to place great emphasis on measures that are suitable for reducing the admissibility, precisely because a significant pay queue has unintended effects in many areas of criminal proceedings, not only on the treatment of pardon cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1863	I thank the Council of State for a full and good answer, which initially goes up a limit and shows that you have had a good dialogue with the Stortinget along the way. That makes sense. At the same time, I think it must be a challenge to a pardon regime that people have accepted from society and that most people see this as fair – not least it is a cross-thinking that it can be seen as a review of the court that has actually decided a prison sentence. Another thing that the government councils in their previous career of which the city council representative was concerned are alternative solutions such as amnesty, home-sonation and atoning discount. Not least in the first half of 2005, more than 7 000 prisoners escaped early. Is not then the Council of State concerned about this development, and is not the Council of State further concerned about how it can be perceived by other law-abiding citizens when people who have committed crimes of varying degrees of gravity are nevertheless rewarded with a discount in relation to the compensation they have actually been sentenced to?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1870	There is no doubt that both the Government and the undersigned are very concerned about the development of the reconciliation queue. That was what the questioner pointed out correctly, also focused heavily on when we were in opposition. In the position we see it as one of the main tasks of the Government just to wind up the reconciliation queue. It's an ambitious goal, and that's precisely because we believe that reaction is what's going to help reduce crime and get people on the right track and on a different track than the criminal. In my view, the fact that a long queue contributes to the granting of a concession – other means of reducing the queue, which the respondent also has to offer – is an unintended effect and also an undesirable effect in the long term. However, I am happy to include, among other things: The Party of Advances has previously called for a long-term stand in the queue of courts and should have an impact. In this way, there is no review of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1875	I thank you again for the answer from the Council of State. But isn't the main challenge in the number of settlements? Won't that be the primary? If we want a match between the judgments that the courts have actually decided, and the requirements for implementation and the tool that is made available through settlements, and there is a mismatch between the two, then the main challenge must be to increase the number of settlements, not to find creative solutions in order to circumvent in a way what is the main problem, namely to execute the penalty under the decision of the court. In this way, it is tempting to challenge the Council of State as to what he has said about parole. We had a report earlier this year that shows that too many, according to the Council of State, have been granted this. The councils were sceptical about the scope, and were challenged if he wanted to do anything about it. He said then that he would wait. But it is a fact that the system of forward parole was introduced by the previous government with the support of the Workers' Party. If the Council of State is skeptical about this, will he then propose to wind it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1882	Yes, it is true that when you are in a situation where there are so many doomsdays in the queue, then you have problems with a long wait. I must be allowed to repeat that fortunately, the Advancement Party has also, rationally enough, seen the problem that especially younger people who get convicted, who stand in a queue for many years, who behave well and are in work, will get a lot of their rehabilitation destroyed if they are called in at such a late time for atonement. Here's a lot of ways to do having multiple thoughts in your head at once. I believe that the Government is very much addressing this challenge, among other things. in the case of the additional proposal which is also to be allowed to be included and dealt with by the applicant. I hope that the Advance Party can contribute its support when the Government now includes, among other things, It also proposes the creation of 45 new settlement sites, and when the construction of the prison in Halden is also proposed for the next year, which will help us to take action in relation to the number of settlement sites. It is also important for the Government to point out – there we have also had broad political support – that we need to be able to think about reactions other than prison sentences, especially against younger offenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1893	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The border control with travellers to/from the non-Schengen at Sandefjord Airport Torp has a very weak police crew compared to e.g. Oslo Airport Gardermoen. The frequency of such passengers has increased strongly at Torp, which in 2006 will have half a million such passengers. The low manning entails delays and additional costs for airlines and passengers and reduces the competitiveness of the airport. What measures does the Council of State consider to remedy this situation, which is now rapidly exacerbating?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1902	I have submitted the question to the police director, who has again obtained information from the chief of police in Vestfold. The chief of police in Westfold states that the airport police service is organised in a border control and foreign department, which currently has 10 posts. From 1 January 2006, the staff shall be extended by one post to 11 posts. In order to ensure satisfactory traffic management, the border control is organised with two turns on weekdays and one shift on weekends. In addition, the minimum staffing of four officials has been introduced on all shifts, except for normal daytime. In the daytime, civil servants of the Foreign Management Group assist with border controls. Sandefjord Airport Torp has on several occasions expressed concerns about police capacity to carry out border checks at the airport. As has been explained, the Westfold police chief has taken measures to ensure adequate border control. The Chief of Police will consider transferring several posts from other district police services to the airport if necessary. Since 2001, there has been a strong increase in the number of travellers from countries not members of the Schengen Agreement, known as non-Schengen, at Sandefjord Airport Torp, which the questioner also points out. The increase has been from approx. 147 000 passengers in 2001 to approx. 400000 passengers in 2005. For 2006, it is expected to be approx. 485 000 non-Schengen travellers, making increased demands for police presence at the airport. With regard to the new non-Schengen flight routes which entered into force on 27 September 2005, the Westfold police chief informed that, on few occasions, police officers in border control caused delays for airlines and passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1917	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. It is so reassuring to hear that he has taken good care of the matter and had good local contacts. These contacts have told him that Vestfold is a very important external border to Schengen. I would like to develop this further by asking the Minister of Justice if he will continue to assess this, because the increase here is greater than it is at Oslo Airport, and it is quite clear that with regard to the allocation of personnel, there are more resources at Oslo Airport than it is at Westfold. I know that in addition to problems for travellers, people are also anxious about the security aspect.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1924	I would like to assure the representative fleet that political leadership in the Ministry of Justice will of course pursue this. The whole issue of border control is a challenge for us, in fact, in quite a country, from the Russian border to Torp, but also along the whole coast. But the enormous growth we've had on Torp, as the questioner points out, should give us more attention to this. Then there are two elements that we have to bring with us, and that my first answer points to. It is the police directorate and the police chiefs who, to the extent that they manage the resources allocated to them, and the police chief looks at the possibility of redistribution, as was pointed out. But it is not to hide that this goes into the range of areas where we believe that there is actually a need to strengthen Norwegian police, and then we need more money into police operating budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1931	Sandefjord Airport Torp has organised its ownership differently from, for example: Oslo Airport Gardermoen, by the fact that it is what we can call partial private ownership. Does it have any bearing on the Minister of Justice's assessment of the distribution of funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1936	I don't see the significance of this. Maintaining active border control is essential regardless of who is the operator, whether it is at an aerodrome or elsewhere. Let's be clear. Much of the detrimental to society that can be achieved by poor border control shall be stopped, regardless of who is an operator at an aerodrome or what it may be. Then I want to clarify again that the government is taking action to strengthen the police, as opposed to the previous government. In fact, we hope that just such vulnerable areas can be satisfied with some more resources. In this way, I also hope for the support of the fleet party representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1947	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘I refer to the work in progress in establishing a civil rescue helicopter base in Florø, Sogn and Fjordane. What is the status of the work, and when in the fall will the offer be illuminated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1956	The Storting gave in Innst. S. No 156 for 2001–2002 on the rescue helicopter service in future to establish a new rescue helicopter base in Florø. The operation of this base would be put to tender. The Bondevik II government launched a prequalification throughout the EEA territory, as the first step in a tendering process for the selection of the civil operator for the operation of the rescue helicopter base in Florø now in October. The government of Stoltenberg II will in a short time make a clarification in relation to further progress regarding the establishment of a civil rescue helicopter base in Florø.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1963	First, I want to thank you for a good answer. It is such that the establishment of the civil rescue helicopter base in Florø requires good planning, not least on the part of the local regulators, in practice the municipality of Florø. It is therefore very important that the Ministry of Justice ensures that this process is now set in motion quickly, that a set of balls in play, so that the necessary local planning can be done early enough. I will allow me to ask the following additional questions: Will the Minister of Justice confirm that the Ministry will make a run to ensure that the civil rescue helicopter base in Florø is in operation during 2007, as the Bondevik II government suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1972	I think I just have to repeat the last part of my answer, that this is a matter that the government of Stoltenberg II will shortly make a clarification in relation to. So it's not clear what kind of process we're going to choose now. At the same time, I would like to say that the government has been sitting for about five to six weeks – the weeks go by quickly – and the previous government had four years since this decision was taken in Stortinget. I see Gunvald Ludvigsen wearing the left mark on his jacket, so that he had good contacts into the Ministry of Justice, I think. Some time I ask that our government also get, at least a few weeks, when the previous government spent such a long time implementing this. The most important thing is that the prequalification was launched on 14 October this year. In this way, the process is in progress. If there is political will in terms of both money and operating mode, it would be possible to put this in place as outlined by the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1981	Once again, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for an additional answer to the supplementary question. I actually interpret the council so that the new government has the same view of both establishment and start-up when it comes to the rescue helicopter base in Florø.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e1988	Now I will not repeat again the answer that the government of Stoltenberg II will take a decision on this in a very short time. I'd like to, with pleasure, inform the Storting about the outcome of it. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are significant challenges in the rescue services across the whole country, both in the matter of bystander, in the question of the purchase of new helicopters and in the question of this base in Florø. These are major policy challenges that require both economic and decision making. After a short time in the department I note that much of this work is there. If it is to be implemented, a decision must be taken by the new government. We're ready to go into such an important problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2000	I will allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘What will the Government do specifically to continue and further develop the important work done in the last four years to combat the most serious forms of organised crime, both nationally and internationally?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2007	The government attaches great importance to the fight against organised crime – and I thank you for a good question. Crime is becoming increasingly cross-border and organised, and is usually profit-motivated. The organised criminal environments have recently shown increasing indifference and brutality, and the criminal networks have become more mobile and specialised. In order to improve the ability of the police to meet the challenges posed by organised crime, more structural measures have been taken – initiated by the previous government and with broad support from the Stortinget, among others. through the police reform and the establishment of New Kripos. In addition, in recent years, police and prosecution authorities have been given a number of new methods to combat this serious crime. The majority decided in our general section on the new penal code. The Ministry of Justice will assess each criminal offence in the work on the special section of the new penal code. It provides an opportunity to further develop criminal law instruments in the fight against organised crime. In order for the police to investigate organised crime as effectively as possible, they must have access to a wide range of investigation methods. Police sources and witnesses in legal proceedings must be adequately protected. I want to build on the important legislative changes that have taken place in this area over the last few years. I want to pay particular attention to facilitating the use by the police of the facilities they have received. In addition, we should assess whether the methods have had the effect that legislators had on their adoption and whether legal certainty and data protection have been adequately safeguarded. I would therefore like to appoint a legislative committee to review the legal rules on intrusive investigation methods, anonymous witnessing and restrictions on access to documents and witnessing in order to protect vulnerable persons. The committee will also be entrusted with the task of formulating proposals for regulatory regulation of investigation methods such as provocation and infiltration. At present, such methods are regulated by guidelines from the Riksadvokat and by case law, in other words, they are quite unlawful. I also want to make suggestions to make it possible to use DNA profiles to a much greater extent than today. This will include, inter alia: be able to increase the percentage of information in winning cases and other offences often committed by organised criminal environments. The overall objective of international cooperation is to prevent and pursue cross-border crime. Norway has entered into commitments through conventions and agreements with several organisations and countries. I will continue this cooperation within the various forums, including: cooperation between the Nordic countries, Baltic Sea cooperation, Schengen cooperation, the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the United Nations. The framework is in place, and I will build on the work done and ensure that the existing legislation is fully implemented. In addition, I would like to continue to assess whether there are additional measures that can and should be implemented in the important fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2026	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. But it is with some wonder that we read the Soria Moria Declaration, which does not have a single word on the theme of organised crime. We see that developments both in Norway and internationally in recent years have moved towards more brutal crime. It is more organised, it is more brutal, and there is increased cooperation between criminal networks across borders. The Bondevik government has shown that priority was given to this matter, and in the special NOKAS case it has come back to Stortingen and secured extraordinary appropriations to follow it up. Since the Government itself, through the Soria Moria Declaration, has raised doubts as to whether it would actually have organised crime as a priority area, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: can the Minister of Justice assure the Grand Duchy that, if necessary, this government will also come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for exceptional appropriations to follow up the NOKAS case?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2035	I can assure the questioner and the Storting that the Government will follow up the important work against organized crime. Sometimes I wonder a little about language choices and what we call crime, among other things. the concept of everyday crime is opposed to the concept of organised crime. In my opinion, it is not that the Soria Moria Declaration does not contain measures against organised crime, rather on the contrary. The point is that the government wants to see the whole crime scene a lot more in context. Instead of adorning yourself with fine action plans and a lot of words, we actually think it's important that we make the police more operational to intervene in what many people see as very painful crime, and that's also part of organized crime. The profitability criterion, such as: happens in Oslo, is in many ways a part of organized crime, whether I have to be allowed to use such an expression. So what's in the Soria Moria statement about more appropriations for the police, for equipment, and the question of doing something about the reconciliation queue and finally expanding the DNA system are just important measures against organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2042	I would like to thank you again for your answer. But I find that the Council of State has a problem when he has to go through other types of crime to prove that there is actually going to be something between the lines of the Soria Moria Declaration on Organized Crime. But I want to return to the fact that organized crime is very international in its nature, and the importance that the police can also cooperate closely across borders. Will the Minister of Justice facilitate the presence of Norwegian police in the international arenas to ensure the effective fight against crime at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2049	The answer is yes. I believe it is essential that the Norwegian police are present at the international arenas. This applies not only to Norwegian police, but to much more internationally committed cooperation on the issue of courts, and also on the issue of settlement. So here's the big challenge. I would also like to reiterate that on the issue of combating organised crime, we do not exclude the Norwegian police, among other things. must be able to carry out problem-oriented police work in order to intervene in serious networks. I ask the asker not to read and look for terms and words, but rather look at the function in relation to the measures proposed. The fact that this government is now proposing to strengthen Norwegian police, as opposed to the recent government, the Bondevik II government, must be one of the most important measures we can take against organised crime. To enable the Ekokrim whitewashing team to investigate, for example: suspicious messages, which are really about the flow of money in organized crime, are, in the opinion of this Council of State, one of the most important things we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2060	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In recent times, media has focused on several issues in state and municipal activities that may indicate that the extent of corruption in Norway is greater than previously assumed. What changes in the law and organisation of public activities will the Council of State take the initiative to prevent and detect corruption?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2069	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has said that it wants to intensify its efforts to combat economic crime, among other things. by increasing the competence of the local police authorities and by prioritising cooperation with tax authorities, social security funds and social security authorities. It has also been said that Ecocrim should be better able to detect and prosecute actors with financial resources to conceal crime. I would like to point out that this is an important line in the government's work against crime. In many areas we now have good legislation, but it remains to make them as operational as possible in practice. This is a field where the existing law provides a good starting point for combating corruption. The most important thing now is to ensure that those who are to apply the law have the right competence and sufficient resources. Several legislative changes have been adopted in recent years to prevent and combat corruption, with broad political support. In 2003, the size of the population adopted new tightening provisions on corruption in the criminal law. These involve widespread and strict criminal liability for corruption in both the private and public sectors. The provisions shall affect the person who gives or offers to any person an undue advantage as a result of his position, position or assignment, but also the person who, in the course of his duties or duties, requires, receives or accepts an offer of such an advantage. Penalties are fines or prisons for up to three years. Actions qualifying for gross corruption, such as: because it is perpetrated by or before a public official, because the act has provided a significant financial advantage or there is a risk of material damage of an economic or other nature, prison may be used for up to 10 years. Also, so-called ‘trafficking’ is criminalised. This means that persons who are or claim to be able to affect the performance of a position, position or assignment by others and who are trying to take advantage of that position by claiming or receiving undue benefits may be penalised. The same applies to those who give or offer undue benefits to such influence agents. How, then, are we to ensure that the provisions are applied as effectively as possible? That's the big challenge. The government has already followed up the Soria Moria Declaration in its draft State Budget by proposing an increase in the allocation to Ecocrim by a total of 6.2 million. kr, corresponding to 11 years' work, to strengthen the work of the laundering team, to set up a new investigation team to investigate, prosecute and execute criminal proceedings and to strengthen the reception function. Together with the development of a new ecosystem of Ecokrim and the proposal to increase the tax rate by 10 million. The proposal will significantly strengthen the fight against economic crime in order to intensify efforts to detect tax evasion. Although most of it has been done on the legislative side, there is a need for some minor changes. The fight against corruption is highly international. The Bondevik Government has sent to the hearing the question of the necessary legislative changes in order to be able to ratify two conventions with anti-corruption measures: on the basis of the Council of Europe Convention on Civil Liberties, the issue is to introduce a separate provision for compensation on liability for damage caused by corruption sent to the hearing. Legal changes necessary to ratify the UN Convention against Corruption have also been sent to the hearing. I will follow up both of these when the consultation deadline expires early in the new year. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs manages legal work relating to the protection of employees who warn of critical aspects of their activities, including corruption. The Ministry intends to make a proposal during the spring of 2006 on the regulation and entry into force of the alert/freedom of movement for work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2086	I thank you for your answer. Eva Joly recently said that many must have known something about the waterworks case in Rome. It seems to have been the situation when it comes to a certain power plant by day as well. But because of the laziness culture or any fear, many people have kept a lot to themselves and first torch to say something when the media have begun digging. As I see it, there is an increased need for public transparency in companies, sluggard anchors in the positive sense of the word must be guaranteed anonymity, and not least it must increase competence in the municipalities, because there seems to be a lot of bosses to have run the happy amateurs' evening. The Council of State has already announced that there could be some tightening of the Public Health Act. What are these besides those already presented by Bondevik II? I'm glad you want to sharpen the whistle-blower protection. Will the Council of State take a more offensive view of the need for competence in the municipalities than to refer to some kind of misunderstood form of local self-government, which the current Council of State, Åslaug Haga, has actually done earlier in Stortinget, where it is left to the municipalities themselves to increase their competence in an area clearly worthy of a clear national strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2097	I think the questioner has important points in relation to the question of transparency. I tried to point out in my initial answer that here we have a lot of the law in place as a criminal officer. The problem is that we do not get the cases up, and that there is a lot of pressure to say from. Then the representative Dahl points to two important elements and two major challenges that the Stortinget will also face, and where I will contribute with hard pressure in view of the fact that we are just getting through opportunities to contribute to increased public transparency, especially in those bodies that are currently not regulated by the Public Health Act. It will be very important to follow up. Then I must also say that it is essential that we improve the conditions of the workers who act as whistleblowers. I would like to point out in particular that it was the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party that contributed to the majority of that provision of the Labour Law. So if the questioner's commitment now implies that also the Right will contribute to that we ensure these whistle blowers support and protection when this comes up again in the Storting, I warmly welcome it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2104	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased that the Right also contributed to the change in the Constitution in relation to freedom of expression at that point – so we have also contributed. Eva Joly also points out that there is far more corruption in the public sector than in the private sector. There are natural reasons for this, namely that there are more to spread costs over, and you don't have the same number of minority shareholders who actually follow along in the same way as in the private sector. In the light of the new book on Mao, I have a question to the Council of State on the need for cultural revolution in the municipal sector in terms of ethical standards and standards in relation to knowledge. I do not yet understand that there has been a clear answer to the question of what one has intended to do to increase the competence of the municipal sector, where the problem of maladministration and corruption is probably much greater than what we have just seen in the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2115	I'm very excited about this field, because I think this is a very serious form of crime. It can weaken very much the confidence in the public sector, but also in the private sector, where corruption or corruption-like conditions are at stake. But I don't think I want to go as far as what Mao did in his cultural revolution. I haven't read the last book about him, either, but I know what it's about. When I still use the word cultural revolution and extend the concept that Dahl's representative is withdrawing, it's because we have to get an understanding out that it's going to be acceptable to say from. I believe that such a change in culture is very well initiated by the fact that the Labour Code has clear provisions in relation to that protection. I would also like to express the fact that it will be relevant to put into action measures by the Government for, among other things. to increase competence in relation to the new provisions then adopted by the Labour Code, so that people can understand the importance of saying from, how correct it is to say from, and not to penalise those who dare to stand up in such a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2130	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Gender Equality and Consumer Affairs: ‘According to the Ministry of Justice’s violence polling in June, 2,000 children in Norway were subjected to family violence for one week. This shows that violence against children in the family is a major problem. Child protection has been criticised for not having been notified in several cases of circumstances they detect, and for not being satisfactory in cooperation between child protection, police and family services. What will the Council of State do to strengthen the protection of children from violence in close relations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2139	The work of society to protect children from violence in close relationships is very important, but for a number of reasons it is also a demanding task. This is due, inter alia, to: that it may be difficult to discover that a child is exposed to family violence. Therefore, it is important that we create arenas outside the family where children are seen! Children may have a complex and varied form of symptoms that may also have causes other than the child’s being subjected to violence. Work with children at risk of violence also imposes great requirements for cooperation and coordination between the services and services involved. In this context, in cooperation with the Minister of Justice, I have already initiated a work to strengthen cooperation between family violence coordinators in the police, in child protection and in family protection. The report of the Committee on Women’s Violence entitled ‘The Right to Life Without Violence’ provides a comprehensive description of the challenges and issues associated with the work on violence in close relationships. State authorities have followed up the issues through the cross-ministerial plans ‘violence in close relations’ and ‘strategy against sexual and physical abuse of children’. The most direct response to the current issue is the project ‘Children living with family violence’ — a collaborative project between Alternatives to Violence and Centers for Crisis Psychology. The project target is children who are subjected to family violence, either by the child himself being subjected to violence and abuse, or by the child’s being a witness to violence. The main objective of the project is to provide new technical documentation and insight into the adverse effects of violence. The aim of the project is to help as many children as possible through national dissemination of knowledge on family protection, child protection, crisis centres, child and youth psychiatry, health centres and others. This effort will be continued in 2006. In June 2005, the Ministry of Children’s and Family Affairs provided guidance on the provision of information and cooperation in which children are subjected to family violence. One of the main objectives of this guide is to provide relevant services and bodies with a precise knowledge of the possibilities for cooperation in such cases, for example: between the protection of children, the police and the family protection offices. It is emphasised in the supervisor that in most cases, for the sake of the child, it will be necessary for the child protection service to report a suspicion that a child is subject to serious domestic abuse. It is also clarified that the Child Welfare Service should then report this relationship. There is a clear call for child protection to report several such cases to the police. The Ministry will closely monitor the follow-up of the leadership provided by the supervisor to the services and agencies working with and responsible for children at risk of violence. The government has sent over Ot.prp. No 111 for 2004–2005, which proposes that crisis centres should also be obliged to report from where violence against children is suspected. I would also like to mention that the Department is developing a guide on the role of child protection in the case of abuses in the presence of the child's parents. One of the main objectives will then be to provide guidance on the relationship between child protection services and other services and services in such cases. The supervisor will be finished in the spring of next year. Finally, I would like to mention that the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2005 started work on the establishment of five regional resource centres in the field of violence and trauma, both for adults and for children. The establishment of these centres takes place in 2006 and this initiative is cross-departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2161	I would like to thank the Council of State for a wide-ranging and good response to a number of good actions to be continued. I would particularly like to point out the two supervisors described, which I believe may be appropriate and necessary. The Minister for Gender Equality and Consumer Affairs has, in the past – I refer to a look-up in the evening post some time ago – pointed to the need to strengthen the competence of child protection, and this may well be the case in other areas as well. She herself realized that this is quite arduous to deal with. My question is whether the Council of State may be a little more specific to point out what she might have thought about, or say something about what thoughts she has for raising her skills in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2168	I want to tell the questioner that I am very happy to be challenged in this field. As I said initially, I'm not hiding that this is a very demanding theme to address, where we're going to be aware that child protection today is making a great effort. But it is also difficult. Therefore, it is important that those who work in the field of child protection have the necessary skills in relation to the important decisions they make. If something goes wrong, it's one of the most intimate and sensitive things that can happen in a family's life. Therefore, it is also so important that we do everything in our power to ensure that the quality of the decisions taken by child protection is the best possible. It does not help if we have a fantastic good law that has been passed in Stortinget, unless the safety of the employees is such that they are able to go in and do what they are going to do. That is why we are focusing on building skills. And I want to praise my forerunner in that area -- here an important work was started, which we will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2175	I noticed that in its reply, the Council of State refers to agencies under its own department to a considerable extent. This is an area that also implies others, and I am pleased with the initiative taken against the Minister of Justice. I would like to point out, in particular, that there are significant challenges in school that a teacher can face on precisely these issues. It may also be in kindergartens or in other areas where outside the world encounters children, where there is a significant need for competence. Will the Council of State take initiatives across ministries to put these issues into focus, including with regard to others who may be involved in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2182	I can confirm that the questioner now addresses is unusually important. Kids are in many different arenas, and school is one of the arenas where they spend most time today. In addition, it is important that we focus on the work of children’s and youth organisations when talking about these issues. What I can promise is that I will do my utmost to get into all the relevant areas to see what we can do in this important matter. But we need a little bit of time. At least I have received good signals from my colleagues that this is a matter that the entire government will address in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2189	Question 31 is already answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2196	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Giske and Djupedal Councils guaranteed in the election campaign that money to ensure the construction of the psychiatry building at St. Olav’s Hospital would bring about a new government. The promises were made without reservation, neither on time scarcity in connection with the additional proposition nor otherwise. The promise was repeated from Giske in the Address Paper on 14 September: «The time-critical decisions made in the revised national budget must be reversed already in the autumn.» Is there a lack of money in this budget that the Council of State is of a different opinion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2205	It is well known that Health Mid-Norway is now building a new university clinic in Trondheim, New St. Olavs Hospital. As the questioner is very familiar with, phase 1 of the project is now more or less completed, and phase 2 is now on the stairs. It has to be added that this construction project is the largest domestic project in Norway, at a total value of DKK 11-12 billion. Health Mid-Norway will face major economic challenges when this whole project is completed. I can assure the asker that there is a good dialogue between the Department and Health Mid-Norway on how this can be handled. The most time-critical factor associated with the St. Olavs development is now that phase 2 is launched and implemented within a framework that I have the security that Health Mid-Norway will be able to handle in the future. Regional health enterprises have an initial overall responsibility for investments within the region’s overall framework. Health Mid-Norway wants to give priority to a psychiatrist in connection with St. Olav's Hospital. As you know, there are extensive plans and needs for the overall specialist health service for upgrading and repairing today’s hospital building. The Ministry will therefore review the level and arrangements of health business investments in the coming period. Such a review will also naturally include a new psychiatrist at St. Olav's Hospital. I will then come back with measures to ensure good national solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2214	I thank the Minister for the answer, but I did not see it as very elucidating. What the minister says is quite different from what the minister's three Councillors, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Øystein Djupedal and Trond Giske, said in the election campaign. The three came in the election campaign with an unreserved promise that it would be made with fresh funds, that it would not be at the expense of further operation of the St. Olav Hospital, and that it would not include delays. Is it so that the Council of State can confirm that the voters of the South-Trande Layer are not led behind the light? And can she guarantee that the promise from the Council of State colleagues is still on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2221	As promised in the election campaign on the part of the Workers' Party, and also from the other parties that are now in the Government, I have taken hold of this matter. But I want to remind the asker that I have now been sitting for over a month. As I said, we're talking about 11-12 billion kroner in total for this project. I think all parties are well served that we are going through it in a proper way, so that it is handled properly. I can assure you that the dialogue with Health Mid-Norway is good. I have postponed the business meeting where we were going to talk about this. That's because I want to go deeper into it, with a view to finding a solution. There can be no doubt about that. But as I said, it's important for me as the responsible state council to go into the project thoroughly, because it's of a magnitude that makes me have to make sure that all the sides and all the consequences are well enough investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2228	Now it's not like the election promise from the three state councils was asking the ministry to engage in dialogue. I also remember claiming that you had back coverage in the party management. The party leader is today Prime Minister of this government. Therefore, it should be thought that everything was clear when almost half the government college, with the Prime Minister at its head, has provided a green light for the development of a psychiatrician – at least with the completely unambiguous election promises. That's why they're making me very uncertain, the signals that the Minister of Health and Health is now coming with. It's something completely different than what's been said before. It says at least that the promise that has come from the three present state councils is not being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2233	I see that the Right is interested in trying to make a lot of uncertainty and spell around this. But I'm also quite sure that the Right still had the Health Minister's chair, so would the Right and Former Minister of Health Gabrielsen have been very concerned that they had a full overview before he in some way gave a blank authorisation on how to do this. And that's what we're doing. I'm asking for an understanding that we actually need a little bit of time for this, but it's not like we're running from any promises. My goal on behalf of the Government is to find a solution. I would also like to remind you that phase 1 is not yet fully funded, even though it is almost complete, and the previous government had the full opportunity to send out almost NOK 3 billion that is also missing there, but I didn't see much of that money either. So I think we should dampen down a little bit in relation to that debate, because that's a lot of money. And let's be clear: we're doing what we can to find a solution, but we have to do it in a real way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2244	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The Bondevik II government proposed in our proposal rules for accounting for fixed assets in regional health enterprises. The proposal was rejected, including: with the votes of the current government parties. This was justified by the fact that the proposal for accounting rules would mean that it was charged about NOK 2 billion too little per person. year in relation to the actual estimated cost of capital. When will the Council of State propose how this amount is to be recovered?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2253	In the Soria Moria platform, government parties, with whom the questioner is certainly familiar, have entered into an adequate financial framework for hospitals to ensure the necessary renewal of buildings and equipment and to counteract a trend with increasing delays in maintenance. The Soria Moria platform also states that depreciation should be based on the real value of the building stock and be in line with the general provisions of the Accounting Act. The government has no difficulty in recognising that there is a gap between the current level of revenue and the annual income needed to reacquire and maintain the present building mass. At the same time, the government also sees that there is room for taking advantage of the building mass built up by 19 county municipalities and the state, in a better way after the hospital reform. This is also apparent from the attitude of the Social Committee towards Ot.prp. No 56 for 2004–2005, to which the representatives of the current government parties also joined. Investment in health businesses is a large and complex area of concern, and I am asking for an understanding that, in the short term, the government has so far been in place to promote the additional number of the state budget for 2006, has not been able to achieve targets in this area. However, the government will review the entire investment regime for healthcare companies, with a view to finding good development/modernisation solutions without affecting the patient offer. This work shall ensure that, within the overall level of investment, forward-looking and good solutions are established for the benefit of patients, while not building up parallel regional offers. The Ministry will also consider the way in which investment is financed, with a view to finding better and more flexible solutions. Governments are strongly committed to ensuring the framework conditions for health businesses that ensure a good and well-functioning specialist health service for both operations and investments. It is vital that in 20 years' time we also have buildings and equipment in hospitals that facilitate good and timely offers at a high technological and professional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2264	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background to my question is that the government parties, and in particular those of the government parties represented by the government council itself, went very high on the track as the previous enlargement dealt with this issue. Then Asmund Kristoffersen, a health policy spokesman for the Workers' Party, said the following: ‘The lack of valuation and the level of depreciation have created both problems and uncertainties for health businesses. It is really critical and unfortunate that the Government has not, at an earlier stage, taken the initiative to clarify this.’ Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, co-worker of the government, also expressed himself very strongly in the summer of today's business about the same. That is why I repeat the question, since the Council of State did not give me any clear answer: When will the Council of State come up with proposals that can clarify this? Because we agree that there are problems for health companies' governments that it is not clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2278	There is no disagreement between us that this is what remains to get the whole hospital reform in place. And then it has to be settled in this. But let me make it clear that there is no disagreement with the representative of Kristoffersen or then Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – we want to sort this out. But I am asking for an understanding – and I know that the representative of the payroll knows that there is a lot of money here – that we are not able to sort it out in 1 month. And the previous government, after all, had a little longer time on it. The goal is we're going to sort this out, and we're going to do that, but I haven't done it in a month.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2283	I thank you once again for the answer, but I am stuck by the fact that the Council of State primarily says what she has not been able to do – and I understand that very well – in the short time. But I understand a little less that she continues to assure what she is unable to respond to when it comes to setting a time. I assume that this has to do with budgetary work, and that means that the Council of State must have thought about when she expects the Government to be able to solve this problem, which has to be resolved through the State budget. So I'm once again asking for an indication of how the Council of State sees itself that the Government will define its own timeframe. Since opposition criticised the fact that this was not solved a long time ago, must there be some timetable for when you think you should be able to solve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2288	My thoughts I think I should have for myself. But there is no doubt that I have been working on this since day one in the department, and we are constantly working on this. I know that the representative's pay is so busy and experienced that he knows that I as the Council of State cannot say exactly when we come to Stortinget with a solution, but I can assure you that this is a high priority in the work we have, and I will of course try to get back to Stortinget as quickly as possible. Then the representative knows that there are more opportunities there, but we are working very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2297	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Diabetes is a chronic condition that can significantly reduce the quality of life of the affected person. The State Medicines Agency has refused to allow a number of new types of diabetes medicines to enter the bladder prescription system, although they can improve the quality of life and keep the disease in check. Because drugs are often expensive, this means that they are difficult to make available to many. Will the Council of State take the initiative to obtain several types of diabetes medicine on a blue prescription?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2306	I would like to start by saying that the bladder prescription system can be perceived in different ways. A patient receives a blue prescription both for medicinal products prescribed by a doctor in accordance with Section 9 of the Blue prescription and for medicinal products upon individual application in accordance with Section 10a. The system of promissory notes and promissory notes is the same in both cases. In the first case, reimbursement is granted in advance, and in the second case, the doctor applies for individual reimbursement on behalf of the patient. I assume that the anti-diabetic drugs it refers to are Lantus and Levemir, who were refused a pre-approved refund in May this year. It is the State Medicines Agency that deals with applications for a pre-authorised refund. In line with the legislation in force, the Agency concluded that these medicinal products should not be refunded in advance. There are two key requirements in this assessment: that there is well documented clinical efficacy and that the costs should be proportionate to the efficacy. The documentation file for Lantus and Levemir has been submitted to the BLUE Committee and its assessment is part of the basis for the Agency’s decision. The Ministry does not wish to over-estimate the Medical Products Agency’s professional judgement in this type of case. However, it is important for me to stress that patients can receive reimbursement for these medicines after an individual application, if there are particular reasons. Lantus or Levemir appears to be able to provide a clinical benefit to a smaller patient group. This applies, for example: patients who have problems with frequent or severe nightly feelings due to the use of insulin or patients who have high blood sugar fluctuations that do not allow acceptable blood sugar control to be achieved. The individual application system shall ensure that patients have access to the necessary medicinal products in line with the pre-approved scheme. In other words, those who need it will get it. The difference is primarily due to the fact that the control of prescription on the blue prescription has been added to the social security fund and not just to the individual doctor. The approval decision is normally not time-limited, unless otherwise specified in the Decision. The average duration of the treatment period is now two and a half weeks and the aim is to further reduce the duration of treatment. Refusals from the social security office may be filed with the County Ironing Office and, where appropriate, the Social Security Court. It provides good legal certainty. It is important for me to make it clear that even if the Medical Products Agency has not granted a pre-authorised refund of the medicines we are talking about, they can be refunded on a blue prescription to patients with such needs after an individual application.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2319	I thank you for the answer that the Council of State gave, and I want to follow up on the fact that diabetes is a disease of very strong progress in Norway, in all age groups. There are now 200,000 people who have diabetes. The annual rate is approx. 6000 to 7000 Nordics, and especially type 2 diabetes. There is a large increase, especially among children and young people, in Norway. At the same time as the strong growth, more drugs are being offered on the market, on which the Council of State was involved. I would like to follow up on the following questions: Can the State Council guarantee that there are medical reasons included in the bladder prescription system, and not financial?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2324	The recommendations I follow are technical advice, and I also think it would have been difficult for me, both as a government council and for the Stortinget, to decide on all the medicines that will eventually be on the market. At least I feel as a state councillor that I do not have sufficient professional basis to take a decision on all of these. Therefore, it is the Medicines Agency that has to go through it. What they have said, along with, for example, experts from both Norway and Sweden are that it is not appropriate for all patients to put this into practice and that it is important to go to a specialist to get it. That's not all this works for. It's also the case that those for whom it works get to search individually, and then, if it's right for the individual, they'll get it. I think that's a good arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2329	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I perceive the Council of State that it is fully possible to adapt individual arrangements to those who need it, in the special groups mentioned earlier by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2334	Yes, I can confirm that for those who need it, and when specifically applied for it, there is an individual assessment as to how strongly one is affected by it, and whether this medicine is what is needed, or whether it is standard insulin treatment, for example, that is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2339	Then we go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2346	This question, from the representative of Vera Lyskleatt to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2349	As a representative from Finnmark, I am very pleased that my first question in this room is to be answered by a State Council from Finnmark. I will ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions – I am very concerned and concerned about the future of the wilderness axis here in the country: ‘Large quantities of farmed salmon emanate annually from farming facilities along the whole coast. We have also had cases this year of large quantities of salmon escaping from different plants. This poses a serious threat to wild fish stocks in our salmon-bearing watercourses. If we are to preserve the wild salmon for future generations, action is needed. What will the Council of State do in concrete terms to ensure that we also have villas in Norwegian rivers in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2358	Escape of farmed salmon is one of the major environmental challenges facing the breeding industry. We're already working on a lot of fields to get the escape numbers down. Work includes both monitoring of the causes of escape, research and development, regulatory improvements and control. Strict technical requirements are laid down for farms in addition to extensive requirements for the operation of farms. Some of the instruments that have already been developed are not yet operational. For example, the regulation laying down technical requirements for farms — the Nytek Regulation — is in force. only in force for existing installations on 1 January 2006. This means that we are not yet fully able to see the impact of these instruments. In the future, I will have a strong focus on measures to prevent escape. It is important to focus both on control to ensure compliance with and improvement of existing measures and to focus on the development of new measures. In its control work in 2006, the Directorate for Fisheries will focus on checking that farms comply with the technical requirements of the Nytek Regulation. A central measure to protect the wild species is the system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. A monitoring and evaluation programme will be implemented to follow up the scheme. This programme will include monitoring of escaped farmed fish and monitoring of salmonids in wild populations. With regard to this work, I would like to refer to the Minister for the Environment's answer to today's Question Time Question No. Eight. The review of the technical requirements for rearing facilities has already started. The aim of the work is to adapt the requirements to new knowledge and experience of industry, equipment suppliers, inspection bodies and management. Several new measures are already under investigation. This applies both to the protection of propellers and to the traceability of escaped farmed fish back to the facility from which the fish are escaped. There are several methods involved in tracing escaped farmed fish. It is premature to conclude by which method is the best – sufficiently precise and at the same time cost-effective. This is something that is being researched further. Studies to study the transmission of infectious agents between wild and farmed populations shall be carried out in 2006. Further work shall be carried out on the development of new measures against salmonids, including vaccines and systematic decontamination measures. Before Christmas, the Fisheries Directorate will invite all concerned public and private actors to a wide-ranging dialogue meeting to discuss measures against escape. The aim is to develop joint actions and to identify new ways of preventing them from escaping.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2381	The President would point out that Question 8, as the Council of State called it in its answer, has been withdrawn and has not been answered in the Question Time today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2384	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good answer. There has been a lot of work on this problem over the years, i.e. wild game and breeding. But we cannot lean back and be satisfied with the state of things when, according to the Directorate for Nature Management this year, more than 700,000 salmon and rainbow trout have escaped from Norwegian farms – 700,000! We need a whole-hearted and continuous focus on this matter. If not, there's reason to fear that it's going against a disaster for the wild. Solutions must be available to ensure the wild species, while at the same time safeguarding the interests of the farming industry and business-poor communities along the coast. Since the escape of farmed salmon is such an environmental problem, could it be appropriate to require the farming industry to move its farms on land?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2393	I can promise that the Government will have a whole-hearted focus on this problem. In the case of the high escape rates this year, they are mainly due to two large single escapes. One was an escape on Tustna on the Dark Coast, where almost 500,000 farmed salmon escaped. If the plant had been assessed in relation to the new Nytek regulation, the escape would probably not have taken place. I stress that the company has not done anything unlawful, as the regulation does not come into force before 1 January 2006, but this is a escape that would probably not have happened in 2006. The second major escape that has occurred this year was in Altafjorden, where 90,000 farmed salmon escaped. It was due to atrocities, and it's worse to protect yourself from. I will consider a lot of other measures, which I have now outlined here, before moving farms on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2402	I would also like to thank you for this reply. The left is concerned that we should preserve biodiversity, and the wild axis is a jewel in our nature. I expect the Council of State to be committed to preserving diversity, so that our grandchildren too will be able to experience fishing for wild species in the future. in the Great Fossen in Tana, in Anarjokka, and in Altaelva.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2409	I believe that it is possible to facilitate future generations to be able to fish wild fish both in Tanaelva and in other rivers in Norway, while at the same time having a live farming industry along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2414	Then we go to question 35.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2421	While it has our great focus on the Barents Sea and the Lofoten in connection with the 19th round of the concession, it has our...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2426	The President must pay attention to the fact that the representative should now quote only the question he asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2429	That's what I'm doing. ‘There has been very little focus on the Dark Coast when it relates to conflict between oil interests and fisheries and environmental interests during the 19th round of the concession. These are the most important breeding and breeding areas for several species of fish, including cod and herring. There are also large conflicts of use between fishing and oil interests in relation to oil exploration in this area. What will the Council of State do to preserve fishing interests on the coast of Moravia in connection with the 19th round of concession awards?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2438	Although at present much attention is being paid to the oil industry in the Barents Sea, this does not mean that the areas outside of Møre have been forgotten by the fisheries management. It has always been pointed out how important the banking areas outside of Møre are in resource and fisheries contexts. Already in the context of the opening up of petroleum activities in the north of the city in 1979, the fisheries authorities expressed the special importance of these areas in terms of fishing. The consideration of the living marine resources and through them the marine environment led, inter alia, to the restrictions were introduced in the drilling operations. This was expressed in particular by the fact that no exploration wells were to be drilled in the second quarter, the time of the year when the most critical stages of a fish's life, such as eggs and larvae, are found in the sea. For all oil block calls, a thorough consultation process is taking place before the Government decides which blocks are to be released. That's the way it was before the 19th concession round. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs based its assessments on advice from the Institute of Marine Research, the Directorate of Fisheries and the Directorate of Coastal Affairs. In order to identify the blocks to be illuminated, weighing will always have to be done. There is a desire to make use of oil and gas resources while at the same time facilitating the sustainable harvesting of living marine resources. I think we're pretty much able to do that. In the case of 19th concession rounds and blocks off the Dark Coast, three blocks, 6204/6, 8 and 10, and the northwest of 6205/3 are lit. Oil activities in these blocks have developed specific environmental and fishing conditions, which have been announced in the call. I believe that these conditions take good care of fishing interests. However, the fisheries authorities will also be involved in the next stage of the process related to the exploration activity and, if oil or gas are found, also on how a field may be developed. Finally, I would like to mention that a group under the leadership of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, with participants from the fisheries and the environment, has the task of assessing the coexistence between oil and fisheries and environmental interests. In the first instance, this group shall consider the Lofoten-Barents Sea area but shall then assess the problem of the rest of the base. I therefore assume that the areas outside of More will be assessed in particular because of their importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2447	I will be allowed to thank for the answer. The fishermen and fishing interests are alarmed at what is happening now, and while the Minister for the Environment will publish environmental assessments from the SFT, the Directorate for Nature Management and the Norwegian Polar Institute in connection with the announcement of the 19th round of the concession, the Ministry of Oil and Energy actually refuses to publish how many companies and what companies are seeking out the individual blocks. When we know that there is a difference between oil companies when they both wanted to interact with fisheries interests and environmental concerns, it is important that this becomes known. Would it not be important for the Minister of Fisheries and the Directorate of Fisheries to know which company has applied for, before it is decided, so that interests can be recorded in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2454	I do not wish to express my opinion on the subject of the Minister of Oil and Energy. In the case of fishing interests in this area, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has, in its conditions of allocation, placed a high emphasis on fishing activities in this area, inter alia. in relation to the absence of seismic or search drilling during the period from 1 February to 15. June, and in the case of possible field developments in this area, solutions shall be used to minimise the impact on the bottom conditions of the spawning areas. In the case of possible field developments, attention shall also be paid to solutions that minimise operational disadvantages to fishing activity. These are requirements that should, of course, apply regardless of who it is that has applied for these blocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2461	I thought it was nice. If the Minister for Fisheries has been in contact with the Ministry of Oil and Energy in connection with the 19th round of the concession, and I expect that she has, what is the kind of foundation given to the Minister of Fisheries for the secrecy of the searchers? Will the Minister for Fisheries accept that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will run on its own and make public only after the decision to grant the concession has been taken? I didn't think you answered that question well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2466	The President would point out that he should not use direct speech in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2469	I assume that the Ministry of Oil and Energy follows common procedures also in relation to the 19th round. What's important here in terms of openness, and that very many people have been concerned about, are among other things. release of the assessments made prior to the call for 19th round and, in this respect, the assessments made by the Ministry of Fisheries's underlying offices will also be published.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2478	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: «I St. pp. No 1 for 2002–2003 the Ministry of Fisheries showed that the cost-benefit ratio for the construction of the City of the Ship Tunnel with a fast boat route between Ålesund and Bergen and an annual traffic growth of 2,5 pst. was 0.94. The calculation rate was in the 5 pst analysis. In summer, the Ministry of Finance lowers this interest rate to 4 pst., which will make the projects more profitable because the long-term benefits are valued higher. What will be the cost-benefit ratio, given the same total cost and with the same assumptions, or at the new interest rate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2487	In 2001, a pilot project for a tunnel was completed through City and an impact assessment was sent to the hearing. It has been briefed later on the City Ship Tunnel in St.prp. No 1 for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003–2004 National Transport Plan 2006–2015 showed that cost-benefit calculations indicate that the project is not socially viable. However, consideration was given to continuing work on the assessment of the City Ship Tunnel, as a cost-benefit analysis does not necessarily capture all the positive effects of the project. The benefits and costs of a project arise at different times, and in order to compare and sum up these effects, a calculation rate is needed. The calculation rate is one of several factors that will influence the profitability assessment of a project. The calculations in the 2006-2015 national transport plan were based on previous guidelines from the Ministry of Finance and external environmental studies of risks associated with infrastructure projects. In retrospect, the Ministry of Finance has provided new guidelines for setting the calculation rate. Initially, a normal interest rate of 4 pst shall be used. for public measures of moderate risk. For measures where it is reasonable to assume a higher risk, it may be appropriate to use a higher calculation rate, e.g. 6 pst. However, the general risk add-on is not applicable to projects falling under the national rules on external quality risk. In such cases, risks shall be specifically assessed on a case-by-case basis. This will include, inter alia: is applicable to the City Ship Tunnel. In the context of Stortingen’s treatment of the State budget for 2005, 5 million were granted. kr to the further work of the Coastal Works on clarifying the basis for any call for tender for the Town Tunnel. The work of the coastal works will also include up-to-date cost-benefit calculations taking into account the new guidelines for setting the calculation rate. As it is announced in St. Prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the issue of the realisation of the City Tunnel will be presented to the Stortinget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2500	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with everything that the Council of State said, but it wasn't at all an answer to the question. This was isolated a very simple question in order to avoid out-of-court talk, e.g.: Give unchanged statements, how high will the cost-benefit ratio be? I assume that in the department or in the Coastal Directorate there is a lying account of the calculations made in connection with St.prp. No 1 for 2002–2003. Then it's just to insert 4 pst. instead of 5 pst. I am fully aware that this cannot be a complete basis for a decision, but the question was so simple: if one replaces 5 pst. by 4 pst., what will the cost fraction be?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2507	The question is probably not as simple as the representative from Løvik. In fact, the calculation rate is calculated from project to project when it comes to larger projects of this magnitude. In other words, it's not given that 4 pst. is the interest rate that will be used for the City Tunnel project. The Coastal Agency has been commissioned by the Ministry of Fisheries to make these calculations next year, and, as mentioned, the case will be submitted to the Stortinget in 2006. In the question, the representative refers to a calculation rate of 5 p.p., which was used in a pilot project in 2001, and then the cost-benefit ratio was 0.94. In 2003, a quality assurance of these calculations was carried out, using a calculation rate of 9 pst. In addition, costs increased slightly compared to 2001, resulting in a cost-benefit fraction of between 0.5 and 0.3. It shows a little bit of complexity. It's not just inserting 4 pst. insteadfor 5 pst. and get the answer at the other end.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2516	I agree with what the Council says, this is not that simple. But it might be very good as an illustration to know, as the question actually sounds, what this will mean in isolation, as it says here, with unchanged total costs and the same statements, or else. I find that we can't get that answer. What one should be able to assume, and which I hope the Council of State agrees with, is that with a lower interest rate in general, which has been reduced for absolutely all modes of transport, the City Tunnel will also provide a more positive result with a cost-benefit analysis than one previously had. Finally, I would like to ask the follow-up question: Can we expect to get a case out in 2006, and will public private cooperation, as the previous government put it, be assessed in that context?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2523	As I said, the calculation rate in the project is 4 pst. It could be something else. It is stated that the answer will be given in 2006 and that a case will be submitted to Stortinget. I take that into account with the assumptions that Stortinget has previously made in its handling of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2528	At that time, Stortinget has handled case no. Add User-ID Succeeded
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-23.ana.ud2037e2539	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
