ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e30	It's not often I call for rematches in this room, but it's done now. In Ot.prp. No 30 for 2002-2003 recommended one public register to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The system of registers was to be set up as an integral part of the base book. In this way, a single public legal register for both housing and self-ownership housing would be obtained. The majority of the population, all except the government parties, decided instead to organise competition between private and public actors to operate the rights register, known as the residence register. Then I refer to Ot.prp. No 82 for 2002-2003 and the decisions taken in this context. This Decision is based on a pre-requisite that there is a commercial basis for such competition and that a sufficient number of operators consider the establishment of such registers to be cost-effective now. As at the 2003 reading, the Ministry considers that the condition of competition in the housing register market cannot be met. That was also the assumption for the population. A private monopoly operator is very unfortunate because it will thus have a significant market power that can be exploited by users, other service providers and the public. Users will find it difficult to ensure the best possible service at the lowest possible price, while the monopolist will have the strength to compete with other providers. The fact that the public will not be able to sanction by switching service providers makes price and quality requirements difficult. Thus, a situation with a private monopoly could in the long term impose substantial additional costs on both users and society and lower quality of service. In addition, a solution containing private registers would result in the establishment of a system of official authorisation, supervision and review procedures. This, in addition to increasing bureaucracy, will also increase public and social costs. In a situation of a private monopolist, the public will have to make use of significant resources to impose quality and price requirements on services and to monitor compliance. These requirements will be the subject of sustained discussion by the monopolist and, in view of the monopoly's strong negotiating position, will be difficult to maintain for the public. I am therefore very pleased that there is now a majority who, for these reasons, support the Ministry's proposal that registration of rights in housing rights should be integrated into the base book and that registration fees should be equal to self-cost. Equally full, I am amazed at the three socialist parties that, with open eyes, deliver hundreds of thousands of unit-holders in settlements to NBBL, with the consequence that they will pay more than they would otherwise need. That time should be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e45	This case concerns a government that could not find itself losing a case on a register, and that has therefore left behind the implementation of a housing law that the board members have been waiting for for for several years and spent several million kroner on training. I am actually the head of the law-enforcement board where I live, and I have known – unlike the board members of all the other law-enforcement teams in Oslo – that this was going to take time, and therefore I have not sent my board members to the farm to study in the new law-enforcement law. All this because the government couldn't trust itself with this register. I want to criticise the Government for not letting the law come into force, but waited – that they didn't make what they are doing now, transitional arrangements in relation to this register, so that settlement laws across the country could take the new residence law that we created, and rather waited and saw what the Government invented in relation to the register. It is clear that all the representatives here have been sent to a drill course in a simple microeconomy before they come here and start talking about monopolists and at all. It's a little sobering considering that when this law first existed with us, and we talked about where the register was to be placed, it was absolutely certain that it would cost more money to add it to the base book. The rates in the base book are much higher than those of NBBL, which for a number of years has been responsible for the keeping of these registers and the recording of residency shares. And then all of a sudden you come back and say, OK, we couldn't get this through the last time, so now we try again, and then we add it to the base book. But just for condominiums, we're going to do it very, very much cheaper than for other apartments and other property to be registered. What is the problem with the Government’s argument is that they have not implemented a proper clarification of all the conditions in relation to the competition that should be on this register, until they have now returned to the Stortinget and in some mysterious way brought with them the Progress Party, which was ready for this in the previous round. And they can't make any real arguments, except that private monopolies are much worse than public monopolies, even though the private monopolies have previously been able to do this much cheaper than the public base book. So where you got it from, it's really not good to say. This case has several worrisome aspects. One is that it would have been better to keep doing it the way we've done today, just upgrade this in relation to the registry and keep letting NBBL do it. So we didn't get a majority for that in the previous round, and then we said that this was going to be put out of competition instead, and that in that way we were going to have a fair competition. I believe that the Government has not facilitated proper competition by clarifying all the competitive conditions. For this reason, it is not possible, through the pre-studies made in the market, to produce good competitive players. Now there have been several competing players on the track over the past few weeks, which makes me think that this would have been fully feasible according to the law that lies there and that the Workers' Party has proposed, and that is why we support this. Then there are the other concerns about this, and that is the following: Today it is the way that the dwellings that are not registered in the base book, but that are thus registered in the registers of the housing construction teams, are not a document fee on. And I believe that the Progress Party will now remain standing and will have to take partial responsibility if we see in the future that there will be a document fee for these apartments. In connection with the housing notification, SV said clearly that the document fee should be escalated and abolished, and in each budget we have suggested that the young people who buy an apartment should drop the document fee as a first step on the way. So this has not been possible to get a majority. The Progress Party now contributes to this being included in the base book, and it is clear that in the long term it may be difficult, both for the Government and for others, to argue that one type of apartments registered in the base book should not be paid a document fee for – and pay a lower fee for – while another type of property should be paid more for. So this is something the Progress Party must be responsible for – that we are likely to see a tax increase in this in the future. But at least I'm going to do what I can to fight it. So it's always so that a thing like this suddenly becomes a locating matter. And that's what Erna Solberg has to take responsibility for, because she went out and announced that there would be 18 jobs in Ullensvang. We're supporting the move, but it's strange that this became a location case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e62	The five minutes I have, I'm probably not going to use, for the most part that can be said in this case, is well now, to say the least. But this is a strange thing, because it seems like, if one simplifys it, that the left-hand side wants private solutions with competition, while the government wants public solutions. So simple is probably not the matter anyway. The problem is that the basis for competition is hardly present, as the chairman was, and then the representative who was just on the platform must also admit that the regulation of the collapse decision, which has not been followed up correctly, was that there should be competition in the market. So the government didn't find that to be the case. So we have the choice between a private monopoly and a public monopoly, and we choose a public monopoly. Then the entire committee agrees that document fees should not be imposed on barricades and share apartments, and that is very good. However, some form of justice or relativity is not that ordinary houses have this moving tax of 2 pst., not least because a find house with a document fee in utkant-Noreg, while the burets are mostly in urban areas, where the price increase on dwellings is significant. And that means you can move without losing money. The SV representative is afraid that this will in the long term mean a tax increase. I think I have to be on the basis that his own party might suggest it. Then, in my view, the change should be that this whole move tax was reduced or removed in the long term. The really positive thing in this case, I think, is that there are 18 jobs in Hardanger. They need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e73	Yes, this is a matter of surprises. First of all, it's surprising that there's a whole matter coming from the Government, given it the broad majority that two years ago decided how to organize the list of citizens. And then it's also surprising that one doesn't present exactly what work this can mean. In the previous round, the majority of the committee had broad confidence that the framework itself, which had the overview, could also carry out this task, and it turns out that we are now getting figures that say that there are 40-50 annual works together, and many of the decentralised ones that have this work. Thirdly, it is surprising that the Progress Party, without asking questions about anything, only accepts that the Government has done a job trying to win competition, even though it is clear to most that some particularly extensive work cannot have been done by the Government to follow up its decision. We mean from the Center Party's page that the government could do more. We thought it was supported by the contact that has been made, and the letters that have come to the committee both from NBBL and from OBOS. Then it's also right as Kari Lise Holmberg says, that initially, from the beginning of – perhaps the most surprising – it was a broad plurality, all but the government party, who wanted different actors to lead these records, while the government, who otherwise tends to flag a completely different position, would have a public register. But now this is what it is. Here you can quickly trace a multiple in the public register room. Well, I guess we in the Center Party to take note of that. We're not part of any rematch in relation to the organization itself. We are concerned that new state workplaces should be located outside the Oslo area. We are very many in that the Hardanger region needs government involvement to secure jobs and competences, so we support the decisions made by the Government here. But we think there's reason to ask questions about how many annual works are needed for this task. So the government calculates with 18 years' worth of work that one today spends 40 to 50 years' worth of work. I didn't think there was any reason to believe that today's burette layer has so much to say about resources in this field. On the contrary, there is concern that the costs of the individual user can rise when this becomes a public register. From the centre party's side, we congratulate Hardanger for getting new jobs. However, we have suggested that the Government will provide a more accurate assessment of the number of annual work to be done, and the costs involved in the creation of registers in Ullensvang. We have argued that this will be clarified in the 2006 budget, and if it does not, we will be asked for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e86	This case is, as has been said, a case that we are now returning to Stortinget, because we could not meet the premises of the Stortingen decision in connection with the case, namely to provide for competition in this field. I believe that it is my duty as the Council of State, when we became aware of this, after we had sent regulations to the hearing and received the hearing opinions, and were assessed to what extent we could get to a market here, to return to the Stortinget. Indeed, a significant premise for the fact that a large majority wanted to have competition and that more people would be able to compete was that there was a commercial basis for competition. So we didn't find that. So simple is really the matter, and I'm glad that a majority on Stortinget agrees that the matter is so simple. It might have been a bit revealing when the representative Heikki Holmås said in his post: we really thought that NBBL should continue to do what they always did, but we didn't get a majority for that, so we found out that we had to put this in competition. So it wasn't at the time that it was considered whether there was a commercial basis for it necessarily. I understand that SV does not think that private monopolies are a problem – private monopolies that have to carry out authority tasks. That is what is the difference between the law that is passed and what has been done in the past, that a public authority task is now being carried out as the register manager for residence registers. I'm actually a little surprised that on the left-hand side you have so few basic attitudes to what are public tasks, and what's possible and right to compete, that once you like the organisation, it's okay. So I was really wondering when I had to sit during the morning meeting and listen to the debate on the previous case on the map of Odelstinget, if I could borrow Mr. Hallgeir Langeland's posts, which were very basic compared to that when there was going to be competition for the land survey, it was part of the government's terrible Right Privatisation. I think you should be honest and say yes, that's how the left-hand side likes NBBL so well and thinks it's a good organization, and then we don't have principles. The principle had to be to get more people to deliver and compete. That's what we've been working on, and we've been working against everyone who's relevant and independent in keeping records. The answer we've been given is that they have to be sure that they have between 40 and 50 pst. by the market in order that the establishment of such a register may be economically sound. With the monopoly situation that NBBL initially has, the investment cost will never be profitable. That's the situation. When the market does not work, at least I believe that we should not use the market either, because the market should provide us with better services. So it involves incredibly large regulatory activity if we want to regulate a monopoly. One of the problems is, for example: How do we do that with pricing? It is clear that a monopoly, which does not have competition, is not really going to have it. And – I'm sorry – both OBOS and BOB are part of the NBBL family – it's the same technical platform, and they're in the boards of each other. So that's the same thing. This is a rail maneuver to say that it's going to be competition. But what is the problem? Well, then we have to start regulating, for example. the maximum price to be applied to such a housing register. Should we regulate the costs in detail? This is going to be wrong – instead of the public being able to operate a public monopoly activity, as this is going to be. So we've done calculations that show that we can actually make the registration of mortgages cheaper than what OBOS is doing today. Between 400 and 500 kroner, our calculations show per person. the current date that the registry service itself could be on, while OBOS today requires NOK 1 364 to register a pledge. We can never tell the ear how much it's going to be, because it's going to be a technical platform. But we're going to have electronic data processing from day one, and we're going to make sure that this is operational from July 1, 2006. The Ministry of Justice is going to be responsible for shaping it further. It's not that I can't trust myself – I agree with Heikki Holmås that there is a word we should get into a wider vocabulary in Norway than just the Bergenian – but it was actually the premise, which I thought was important for the Progress Party, that it became competition, and that it wasn't SV's wish to transfer authority tasks to private organisations that were supposed to be the basis for this. So we figured out that we can't do that. Then I think it's fair that a majority also says right, then we go back to doing this as a public task.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e105	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e108	The Councils of State and the Right are in favour of outsourcing and privatisation in all areas of society. Large state institutions such as the Railway Agency, NSB, Vegvesenet, etc. has been put at a competitive disadvantage under this government – only not the Borett register, which has been decentralised by the law of residence and has worked. It's going to be a state monopoly. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get The principles that the Council of State is talking about are not easy to see. By letter to the Committee, OBOS and PDO have notified that they wish to compete on the Boret register, inter alia. The map. It would meet the competition requirement in the field. My question to the Council of State is, do they get a chance to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e115	With the current choice, the starting point is that this will be a common location and coordination through the base book. It was another model that was up at Storting's previous treatment, namely that one had to put out the service itself. But what's going on here is you're essentially co-organizing this with the base book. It will provide a considerable synergy effect and also contribute to lower costs for individual consumers. That's an important part of it. Then I have to say that it may be bad for the Workers' Party to discover that the distorted image that the representative Eye just put forward, that we want to put everything out of competition, is actually not right. We will compete where the market is going to provide us with services and efficiency and changes in organisational forms that actually make services better and cheaper, or that we can develop new models for it. However, we have never proposed that the fundamental principle should be to put questions to competition such as registration and execution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e122	I think there's one thing that's very interesting in this, and that's that Erna Solberg is not able to separate. She believes that the left-hand side is not able to distinguish between the companies we like, and the companies we don't like, in the sense that if we like someone, we support them, and if we don't like them, we're against. The same claim could go directly back to the Council of State, because the Council of State is unable to distinguish between what we can call the voluntary sector, and what is a member board and organisations, such as the housing laws and housing construction laws and, in particular, the housing law organisation The housing cooperative has always been. Now it should be said that through the law on housing law, the Council of State has done what she has been able to do to make housing laws as comparable as possible to limited liability companies – which the left-hand side has always opposed – and other private activities. My question to the Council of State is very simple: if it is the case that those who keep the base book can do anything so much cheaper than the NBBL's residence register can do, what is the background that the Council of State dares to claim that there is no competition? Could they not just submit a tender?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e131	It's as simple as this is a kind of register where you have economies of scale. And so it's like this in the economy -- I'm sorry I seem a little instructive -- that with falling costs due to high initial costs, it'll always be hard for others to get into a market once you've settled down and taken all the basic costs. That's kind of the main problem. That's why it's going to be a monopoly of this. One must compete in such a large part of the market before one can compete with the same prices, because it is the investment costs initially that are the cost element. Then one can push down everything else. That's why NBBL is going to be a monopoly. That's why everyone else, for example. The security centre, which at our request has been in and seriously assessed whether it was a basis for them to go in and operate, has said that if they do not get up to 40-50 pst. of the market – which they believe is unlikely because they will not be competitive at the beginning – it will not be possible for them to compete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e139	The Progress Party supports the Government in this matter, except in one area. It has also been asked by the Council of State — it is about localisation. The government has certainly, in parallel with us dealing with this matter in our committee, that this should be localised to Ullenswang, which one can ask questions about, regardless of the matter we are dealing with here today. But then the Council of State said in its reply to the representative Holmås that one of the reasons they are doing this grip, of course there are economies of scale. Then my question is: what is the point of creating a new register, with new Ullensvang employees, when you could simply add it to the Cartwork or other existing institutions under state control?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e146	The representative is right that the localization issue is not really a topic in this proposition, so it's not addressed there, and we haven't tried to make it a localization issue. However, a service office in Ullensvang has already been established by the Ministry of Justice. That means there's already an infrastructure there. That's why we've chosen to build on Ullensvang, and also because we have ambitions to move more jobs into communities and areas of declining settlement, as part of district policy. So we have chosen to do so in the area where there will be the most synergies related to it, and it is already establishing an infrastructure for this in Ullenswang, through the establishment that the Ministry of Justice has already done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e151	I have two questions. The only thing I'm forced to do is because I thought the Council of State was saying something nonchalant to the housing cooperative. I have to say that what I have learned from my work in the municipal committee is having respect for the great work that has just been done in housing cooperation. My first question will then be: does she think that it is important to maintain and facilitate the work of housing cooperatives? My second question goes on with 18 years of work. She obviously thinks it's going to work today, but she's going to go a little bit closer to talking, because this job is between 40 and 50 years of work today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e158	I am also impressed by the housing cooperative's way of working and the many good housing projects, not least the OBOS in this city, are getting ahead of time. They are a good partner in keeping housing in the country at the current record level — we have not been at this level for more than 20 years in Norway. But that doesn't mean that I don't also understand that it's an organisation that kind of has a monopoly situation in this context, and that it's unnatural to make legal regulations, coercive regulations on registration, and put that responsibility on someone in a real monopoly situation, because it's not all housing laws that are a member of NBBL. Not everyone has the NBBL membership organisations as business leaders, and this would, of course, give them a competitive position in relation to other tasks and independent and stand-alone. So to Ullenswang: I'll promise to look at it, but we'll do it as cheap and as efficient as we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e165	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e170	I'm going to be a little careful, a heavier to extend debates in these times -- we're approaching the end. But there are a few things I want to comment on. Let me first say that we're in a strange situation, because we're recording here today that it's SV, the Workers' Party and the Central Party that are at the forefront of competitive outsourcing and privatisation, while the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want a state monopoly. That in itself should get some bells to ring for someone each! For me, in fact, the bell sound is enough that I would probably have fallen on a state monopoly approximately regardless of the content. But there is one thing that has not been said so much about today, and that is that the Progress Party will have a majority for an important proposal, no. 1, where the Government is asked to: «investigate and promote proposals for full non-discriminatory treatment of administrative services provided by the Housing Building Laws for related housing laws and between stand-alone housing laws and joint ventures». It also tells us something about the debate we have here today, because here we see that the different majority constellations change positions. I also think that's a little bit of the position that's in the hall here today. In fact, I believe that this proposal has so much effect in terms of getting competition – in other areas, correctly, but it is important. The Council of State was somewhat doubtful as to whether one can compete with what the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre want here. In this respect, I would like to quote from a letter of 30 May from the Council of State to the Committee. For in order to create competition under the auspices of NBBL, OBOS and PDO, it is interesting to see that all these registers would be established in the context of residential cooperation: ‘Both OBOS and PDO are known to be members of NBBL. In addition, Adm. Director of OBOS Martin Mæland is Vice-Chairman of NBBL’s Board of Directors and Chairman of BOB Per Rune Henriksen as a member of NBBL’s Board of Directors. OBOS has also invested 9.8 million. krones in NBBL’s register, cf. NBBL’s 2004 Yearbook.’ That in itself tells us that one can't create any healthy competition between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e191	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e207	The decision we are making today is shelling for those concerned, and my congratulations go to those about a hundred Vietnamese boat refugees who have been in the Philippines for a number of years. I hope and think they will be well received when they come to Norway. The debate was held in the context of the examination of the request decision No. 181, and we agree with the Committee that we disagree. That is why there is a unanimous committee voting in favour of the law as it exists. I would like to commend the Council of State and the Department for the work that has been done to follow up the decision taken by the Stortinget, and for the way in which the law is designed. So I'm going to end by giving praise to Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e218	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e234	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e250	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e266	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e273	For the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2002-2003, Disability building, a plurality in this room – the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People’s Party – asked the Government to come back to the Stortinget with a proposal to legislate municipal councils for people with disabilities. In Ot.prp. No 87 for 2004-2005 The Government follows this order in a good way. For the Christian People's Party, it is gratifying that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party in a election year will turn and join us in this matter. So there's a bunch of committees that are behind the odelstungsproposition that guarantee people with reduced function even better user involvement. Today, therefore, is a joyous and important milestone in the struggle for a society that does not shut anyone out. The Committee would like people with disabilities to be kept open, wide and accessible in their work on matters of particular importance to them. This applies, inter alia, to: access, work against discrimination on the basis of reduced functioning and services for people with disabilities. For a long time, there has been a desire from organisations for disabled people to legislate for municipal councils in line with the elderly council. Answered by organisations in the audience in connection with St.meld. No 40 was very clear with regard to a desire for law enforcement. About half of the municipalities and municipalities have today created such advice for the disabled, and the experience from it has been very positive. The Committee further points out in the preamble that the legalisation of municipal councils is in line with the UN standard rules on equal conditions for people with disabilities and the proposals that lead to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Committee is concerned that the interests of the various groups of disabled people must be safeguarded without being dependent on strong press groups, which only care for the interests of a few. By legislating user involvement in municipal councils, the committee believes that real participation in decisions that have consequences for them will be significantly strengthened. The importance of the Committee in dealing with these issues has been a requirement for user involvement to be a formalised system. However, the Committee stresses that the general rule should be that each municipality has a municipal council for people with disabilities. The Committee believes that there should be the possibility of selecting inter-municipal solutions. However, the Committee would point out that there should be municipal solutions where it is possible to do so. The Committee has also stated very clearly that they see joint arrangements with the county councils as being of little relevance. The Committee's plurality, all outside the Progress Party, underlines that, in order to ensure that disabled people are involved in matters relating to their group, separate advice shall be provided for disabled persons. Advice for the elderly is all legal and established as a speaker for the elderly in the municipalities. Therefore, these recommendations have a different focus than advice for disabled people. The majority therefore believe that common advice for the disabled and the elderly is not a desired solution, but something that should only be used in purely exceptional circumstances. The progress party is contrary to section 4, but I expect the party itself to do well for it. Furthermore, the Committee supports the assessments made in the proposal that are related to the starting point for the selection of representatives from the organisations, and believes that it is decisive that the composition of municipal councils helps to support the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e296	First I have to be allowed to say that this is actually a happy day. The Progress Party has been working for several years to put the principle of statutory advice for disabled people out in the municipalities, and now this is finally happening today. It's a long-standing fight that's been taking place. The organisations have stood behind this time and again, without having managed to arrive at a special arrangement, which we have got here on the table. What is currently under consideration is a follow-up to the agreement with the government parties on the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2002–2003, Disability reduction. I want to give the government credit for coming back quickly with a good proposition, so that we can already now adopt a law of these advice and get it in place. The rapporteur pointed out that there was a comment on the council of elders and municipal councils that the Progress Party is not in, and that is quite correct. It's not because we disagree with what it says, but we're very afraid that it can quickly become a mix-up, because we've got a paragraph that in special cases can allow municipal councils for the disabled to be the same as the council for the elderly, so it's going to be a mix-up. There is something that, among other things: The organisations are very afraid, especially when we look at the composition and treatment of different kinds of issues. It has been inserted in this law as Section 4, which opens up this very thing. That's what's behind us not being on that note. We want to vote against Section 4, because the old councils are statutory in another law, with a different code and content than what we are going to deal with here. That is why we want to vote against Section 4, so that you do not get the combination of these two different advices. I must also say that I am very pleased and very pleased that both the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have turned around in this matter and now go in for the same thing. It was interesting to read, among other things. what appears at the Inn. S. No 162 for 2003–2004, i.e. setting in connection with St.meld. No 40, 40, 40, 40, I'll quote from there: «The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre believe that the legalisation of user participation requirements is correct. In view of the wide diversity of Norwegian municipalities in terms of geographical size, population and organisational form, these members consider that it would be reasonable for each municipality to decide on the best way to ensure such legally required user involvement.’ It is a pleasure that you have made sense in this matter. You turn around, and I just have to say that you have to be honored for that. It's actually fully legal, and that makes sense, and we warmly welcome the somewhat sensible solution with statutory municipal councils for disabled people. Then I also hope that you can reason on one more point before going to voting in this room, by voting against Section 4, we will avoid mixing municipal councils for the disabled and the elderly. I fear that in the future we will get quite a lot of complaints on that very piece and a lot of mess out with it, so I hope you vote against § 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e316	The President will say that reason is fairly evenly distributed, either a vote for or against a position in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e319	Possibly, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e324	Today, we are happy to be able to contribute to the provision of advice for disabled people in municipalities and county municipalities. This is in line with what started with the work of the so-called Manneråk Committee and was presented in the setting called From User to Citizens. Furthermore, it was also mentioned in connection with the Storing case, St.meld. No 40 for 2002-2003, Dissemination of antifungal barriers. What has been discussed in part is whether there should be common advice for the disabled and the elderly. Older people's councils are legal, and now also advice is given for disabled people's legislation, and the question is whether these advice can be combined. That's what I have some comments for. I think that in small municipalities it must be possible, but it must be that those who are users here, and the groups involved, agree that the views and interests of both groups are well taken care of. Such advice should be more than just an expression of opinions in individual cases. It is also mentioned by the Ministry that one should be able to promote opinions and advice on all matters relating to the disabled and/or elderly. I just have to say that when we're in favour of common advice, it's based on the fact that some municipalities are so small that it might be appropriate to have common advice. But in county context, this seems a little bit topical. It is also a little topical, in my opinion, to open up that there may be interstate councils. There should be one advice in each state. It is mainly these things that have been questionable in this matter and in the position – as was also explained by the representative Nesvik – that the Progress Party is voting against Section 4. We didn't choose to do that. I think it is right that the municipalities get some flexibility and the opportunity to find a suitable system that suits the municipality and that suits the users, with a strong impact from them, and that one can then have one common advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e337	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e353	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative. The spokesman hasn't arrived yet, so we get to go to Sonja Irene Sjøli, which is the next sign on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e364	Yes, as the rapporteur has not arrived, I have the floor. The new Employment and Officials Act that we are about to adopt today is about facilitating the welfare of the future and is an adaptation to the reality of working life. I am pleased that the Government is getting through to the important harmonisation of labour law, in line with the position and recommendations of the Labour Law Committee. The legislative proposal implies that the same arrangements will now largely apply to the public and private sectors. This will contribute to a more flexible labour market where workers will be more able to switch between public and private sector jobs. This is a mobility of skills and experience that is important both for individual workers, for businesses and for the public — yes for society as a whole. I have registered that the Red-Green parties, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, are proposing to send the law back to the Government. The same parties have views on the legislative process and believe that it does not comply with the provisions of the investigation manual. I would like to stress that the proposition and the government's work on it are a consequence of, and largely based on, the Labour Law Committee's investigation, NOU 2004:5. The need to harmonise the legislation in itself led to such major changes in the applicable civil servants' law that the Government felt that a revision of this law should be carried out at the same time. I expect that the Council of State in its article will also come into this point. I nevertheless need to note that it cannot be that strong main associations should delay important regulatory adaptations when the associations themselves choose to withdraw from dialogues and processes around the legislative proposal. The right has been and is one of the drivers in the modernisation of the public sector. We have a commitment as politicians to dare to implement the changes needed to ensure that the public sector receives the most and the best possible services again for each krona. I have to be surprised at the refusal of some socialist parties to innovate that there is, in fact, a constant need to modernise and adapt public employment to the actual reality. When the Government proposes to abolish the waiting pay scheme, it is among other things. because one has seen that particularly older workers are being pushed out of the labour market by this scheme. Right-wing believes that it is through work well-being created. Welfare is not created through schemes that act as a passivating and, in this case, as an exception, on some workers. It is also important, in the view of the Right, that rules governing the legal status of officials in the labour market be identical to those governing the legal status of other workers in society. Government legislative proposals on, inter alia: the abolition of the waiting pay scheme and changes to the employment protection provisions and to the recruitment and recruitment scheme contribute to the cessation of the existence of specific rules for the officials of the State. As mentioned above, this is important in order to ensure increased flow of skills between public and private businesses, for the benefit of society. I note that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre do not see the need for changes in order to meet the challenges facing our society and working life. The fact that the schemes have existed over a long period of time does not, in the view of the Right, justify their retention. The government’s legislative proposals contribute to simplifying legislation and reducing red tape and ensure greater flow of work skills between public and private businesses. In the Right, we are pleased that the Government adapts current arrangements to today's reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e383	The working party will strengthen the protection of workers. We will prevent workers from losing their rights, weakening their job protection and increasing overtime pressure. The Labour Party would stress that good change processes in the country depend on cooperation between all parties. Further amendments to the laws and regulations must be thoroughly investigated and employees’ organisations actively involved in the investigation process. The working party believes that the proposed changes are of such a size that they should have been investigated by a legislative committee to elucidate the various consequences of the proposals. Instead, the Ministry has chosen to use the work of an interministerial group as a starting point. I would like to point out that the main associations of the LO State, the YS State, the UHO, with the support of the Research Association, are critical of the department's proceedings. They believe that the process has been fragmented and strongly influenced by the lack of impact assessments. The main associations also point out that there has never been an overall review of the proposal for a new law. The Labour Party believes that the lack of dialogue with employees’ organisations is critical and that the process of drafting a new law suggests urgent work without a thorough investigation, which means that the Stortinget has a lack of decision-making basis for its treatment. The impression of urgent work is supported by the fact that the Government of the Proposition makes little arguments as to why it is important to propose such major changes without any necessary investigation and dialogue with the employees. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party believe that it is difficult for the Stortinget to see the reasons and consequences of the legislative proposals. That's why we're proposing to return the entire proposition. The working party therefore believes that the proposition is so poorly investigated that we, together with these parties, propose to send it back to the Government for further investigation. The Workers' Party believes that the Government's proposal for a new Civil Service Act removes key elements of the Administrative and Official Law. Fundamental rights and provisions are reduced. It is proposed, inter alia: the abolition of the waiting pay scheme. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left will stress that there is a link between the role of civil servant and the protection of the position, and we reject the need for harmonisation of employment protection rules in the Civil Service Act and the Working Environment Act in order to reduce the distinction between the private and the public labour market. The Labour Party believes that the claim in St.prp must be questioned. No 1 for 2004-2005, the Ministry of Modernisation’s budget proposal, that the difference between the Labour Environment Act and the Civil Service Act leads to low mobility between the public and private sectors, and whether this is a problem. The need, competence and pay and employment conditions initially govern this. This can be achieved, for example, by: outcomes from the requirement of specific competence during the employment of officials, requirements which may differ in the private sector. The Workers' Party would stress the importance of the ability of the State to recruit and retain staff with good competence. A deterioration in the rights of employees can help the opposite. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party oppose the Government's proposal for a new law. The Workers' Party will protect the health, safety and well-being of workers. We will combat all discrimination in relation to sex, age, sexual orientation, disability, skin color, religious or ethnic background. Conversion and efficiency shall not be at the expense of workers' rights and working environment. We do not accept more and more individualisation by shifting the level of agreement in several areas from the organisations to the individual employee. A continued strong Right- predominant government will continue to undermine central professional interests and rights. I address the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e416	The representative Eirin Fallet has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e419	Today, we are discussing changes in the law on government officials and officials. Changes are proposed in relation to employment, regulations in the State shall not be confirmed by the Ministry of Modernisation, and the waiting pay system and the turnaround scheme shall be abolished. I thought we had learned something in the process of relocating supervision: the importance of implementing processes and cooperating with employees' organisations. Further changes to laws and regulations must be thoroughly investigated and organisations actively involved in the process. The proposed changes to be addressed here today are to such an extent that they should have been investigated by a legislative committee. The main associations LO State, YS State, UHO and with the agreement of the Research Association are critical to the proceedings of the Department. The main associations point out that there has never been an overall review of the proposal for a new law. Nor has the government followed the investigation instructions, which state that draft legislation and regulations are to be drawn up on the basis of the Ministry of Justice’s guidance on lawmaking and preparation. It states that, in particular in the case of more extensive legislative projects, it would be ‘advisable to set up an investigative committee with representatives from different disciplines and interest groups’. The extent of these legislative changes and complexity is such that an investigation committee should have been set up, not just an interministerial group. On the basis of this, SV will propose that the bill be returned to the Government. We cannot support a bill that is a strong attack on employees' rights. It is quite inconceivable for SV to support a change in the law which, on the part of employees, is clearly perceived as a breach of the main agreement. The lack of dialogue with employees’ organisations is critical, and the process of drafting new legislation has not been good enough. The government argues little in the proposition as to why it is important to propose such extensive changes without the necessary investigation and dialogue with the employees. It is difficult to see the reasons and consequences of the legislative proposals. I want to make it clear that on the SV side we will vote against the law in its entirety. This is a law that we will re-arrange if we come to government after the elections, because fundamental rights and regulations are being changed, and because central elements of the administrative and civil servants' right are being removed. I will go into some of the legislative amendments. The government is going to cancel the waiting wage scheme and the redundancy scheme. The right to a waiting wage is not unconditional, but it is a right which can be granted to officials such as: is cancelled due to conversion. The waiting wage system was revised in 2002, in cooperation with the main associations. The new scheme entered into force on 1 January 2005. In the event of insurmountability, it may be difficult to find new employment for some employees. The waiting pay arrangements – pending a new job – have therefore been an important safety net for workers in the country. SV believes that the waiting pay scheme and the redundancy scheme should be maintained. We will also point out that today's system of employment in the state works well. Today’s system means that employees are represented in the recruitment authority. The scheme gives employees participation and influence. We are quite clear that this proposal that lies here is a weakening of the employee's influence, which SV is opposed to. SV will continue to have a common Staff Regulations, because we believe that the consequences of not having them may be different rules and different interpretations of individual State activities. The main associations of employees have pointed out that this proposal is contrary to the main agreement. The proposal weakens the rights of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e436	The Government's proposal for amendments to the Employment and Employment Act is based to a large extent on the Employment Act Committee's setting, NOU 2004:5 – «A working life for safety, inclusion and growth». The Committee proposed harmonizing the rules of employment of civil servants of the State with the rest of their working lives. Such harmonisation in itself entails major changes to the applicable civil servants' law. The work on harmonisation was subsequently followed up by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of Ot. pp. No 49 for 2004-2005. It must be a goal for us as legislators to apply common rules to most job categories, and that the Labour Environment Act should cover as much employment as possible in both public and private activities and regardless of industry. It is not natural that in the future there should be completely different arrangements for employees in the state who become unemployed, than for employees in the municipalities and in the business community. Industry as well as the public sector will serve to increase the flow of skills between sectors as a result of more people shifting jobs across sectors. Employment will face major demographic challenges in the years to come. It requires that we continue to work to strengthen the ability of older workers to stay longer in gainful employment. That being said, there are a number of myths and prejudices against older workers that must be broken. This applies, inter alia, to: the myth that older workers are less productive and that they are most concerned with leisure time. Prejudice and myths help stigmatise older workers as a group. An effective tool in the fight to break prejudices and myths is knowledge. Here, the Senior Policy Centres have a central role as a knowledge intermediary. Many employers have used the waiting pay scheme as part of a final package for older workers. The scheme gives a payment of 66 pst. of previous salaries, and may be paid for up to 12 years. The long period also weakens the motivation of employees to take on new work. The motivation of the waiting wage earners to accept fixed-term work offers is also weakened, because they cannot return to the waiting wage scheme in the event of any new unemployment. The purpose of the waiting pay scheme was initially that the surplus official should have income insurance while waiting for a new job in the country. However, the scheme has been counterproductive and, in particular, it has affected older workers who have been excluded from the labour market. However, it is important to stress that workers who have received a waiting salary as part of a final package in connection with the conversion or relocation of State jobs must retain it. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the proposal for transitional rules means that everyone who is currently receiving a waiting wage can continue to do so in accordance with the old rules. Thus, no person who has ceased to engage in State activities under the promise of a waiting salary will lose that right. There are several alternative personnel policy instruments for use in state conversions and for the relocation of state jobs: termination benefits, study benefits and development of competences are some of them. However, the most important thing is that the employer takes responsibility for his employees and finds a solution based on the individual employee’s assumptions and interests. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the principle of qualification is now being legalised. This means that the best qualified applicant must be employed when he becomes a public job vacancy. This is an important signal of the importance of an objective assessment of candidates’ qualifications and a signal that recruitment of the «competition quota» is to be avoided. The challenge for tomorrow’s working life is to make the most of the resources available to them as long as they want and are able to do so. Then we have to make arrangements so that those who are about to fall out are involved again, and so that those who are outside are given the opportunity to participate and contribute. The Christian People's Party will work for a working life that gives each one the desire and ability to be active for a long time. Working life needs long-term employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e459	Both in terms of each individual person, enterprise and society as a whole, it is important that we succeed in getting more people to work. It is through work well-being created. It is therefore important to adapt the legislation to ensure a more flexible working life. In a modern working life, it is an advantage, for individuals and for society, that workers have the opportunity to switch between jobs in both public and private sectors. In this way, public and private best use can be made of each other, while increasing the overall competence of society. Officials of the State are subject to the Working Environment Act with the exception of the provisions of this Act on the protection of employees. After all, the rest of the public sector, i.e. employees in municipalities and counties, is already fully covered by the provisions of the Labour Environment Act. So it is not like the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left claim in this debate that this is a harmonisation of the state's legislation only against the private sector. This is a contribution to equalising workers in the country, municipality, county and private parts of the labour force. I do not think there are any reasons why there should be any special rules in this area for government officials, and the time has come for harmonisation. Harmonisation in this area will result in substantial changes to the applicable Civil Service Act. That is why I think it was also useful to draw up a new law for government officials and officials. That is what the Stortinget proposal is about today. I'm glad that the majority in the Grand Duchy joins in the draft of the new law. However, I would like to comment on some of the issues discussed both in the vote and in this debate. First of all, I would like to comment on the allegations that the Ministry's case preparation has not been in accordance with provisions on the procedures in law. I must strongly reject this. The Ministry prepared a comprehensive consultation report which was sent at general consultation to all stakeholders, including, of course, the main association in the State. The period for consultation in such cases shall normally be three months. Here, we have extended the consultation period to just under four months, much more than normal. In addition to the usual consultation round, we have had a separate consultation on the transitional rules relating to the abolition of the waiting pay system and the redundancy mechanism. When these consultations were carried out, we invited the main associations of the State in the Ministry to a sample of the hearing. However, the concentrations chose to withdraw from this work and to withdraw from the sample. We have also had a strong desire to have the principal associations involved in a dialogue on the proposals, but it is the main associations that have chosen not to complete such a process. I would also like to stress that the provisions relating to the officials of the State were carefully assessed, and this was done in the light of the work of the Labour Code Committee, the usual consultation round and the presentation to the departments. The second thing I would like to comment on is the statement that the proposal to remove the right to negotiate staff regulations is contrary to the Main Agreement of the State. In the new law, the recruitment system in the state has been substantially simplified and, in my view, improved. The need for comprehensive and complicated staff regulations is much less. The draft law proposes that, in the future, the employer should draw up a single regulation to be submitted to the negotiable organisations in the activities for their opinion. If the organisations do not accept the company's proposals, final regulations shall be laid down by the department. The Staff Regulations of today's Civil Service Act thus provides that the Staff Regulations provided for in the Act are to be negotiated between the Parties. This has been repeated in the Main Agreement of the State. The main agreement refers to the provision of the Civil Service Act, and the Main Agreement is not an independent negotiating body, but a procedural principle which states that negotiations should take place in accordance with the rules of the Main Agreement and not under the rules of the Code of Civil Service Disputes. This is a case that shows the differences between the left-hand side and the centre/right-hand side of Norwegian policy. Some are concerned with symbols and stick to the existing one for the sake of existence [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e476	The President requests that the speaking time be respected. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e481	It's bold of a council from the Right to talk about that there's someone on the left who doesn't move forward, or wants to meet the future. I remind you that the Council of State represents the conservatives. There's something that doesn't match what we now heard from the Council of State: the concentration withdrew from cooperation. Has the Council ever asked itself why? It's not like there's any help in having hearings if you don't listen. Does the Council of State feel that there has been good dialogue with employee organisations? Does the Council of State feel that it was so important that you had to hurry a little bit to get a law passed? Did he fear the harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e491	I'm not afraid of the harvest. I look forward to four new years to implementing good centre-right policies for the benefit of the country. Conservatism is about changing to preserve. That means that we will make changes that take care of the best values in Norwegian society. We have also registered that we have had instruments in the Civil Service Act that have given results we have not wanted at all, but that I record that the left-hand side will hesitate. The waiting pay system has become a tool to push older people out of work. It does not want the government parties and the Progress Party. We want employment-enhancing instruments that make employers have strong incentives in the country to keep labour, including older workers, in the event of transitions. When it comes to not listening to hearings, I draw the attention of the representative Fallet to the fact that we have made changes precisely because we have listened to good, factual arguments in the consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e500	The Council of State is trying to say: there have been hearings here, this has been a good process. But it has not been a good process when employees subtract from the sample, subtracting from the process. It has to be that you have to go in and evaluate what kind of process you have started. What you're doing here is you're taking away the employee's rights — many rights. Governments are in the midst of waiting wages pushing older workers out of work. It's not like that. In fact, in the major shifts in state activities such as Telenor, Posten and NSB, jobs have been lost over the whole country – where there have been no opportunities to enter other jobs, and where there have also been so special professions, and special skills, that there are no jobs around. The waiting pay scheme has been a good arrangement. Why do you remove it with a pen stroke?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e509	The process has been successfully organised by my department to include it. I note that one of the main associations has agreed to this, and I wanted to participate. But at the same time, I record that three main associations that have long ago seen it as an important goal to remove this government, have chosen not to participate in a process that we invited to. When I listen to this debate, I can get the impression that the left-hand side believes that these are changes that remove the social security network for employees undergoing conversions in the state. But it is a harmonisation, so that employees in the state get exactly the same job protection as municipal employees, municipal employees and private sector employees. It is surprising that, after this discussion round, the Socialist Left Party, the Labour Party and the Centre do not go to the barricades to establish waiting pay arrangements in the municipal and county municipal sectors – I have not seen them do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e518	Today, it is such that recruitment and cancellation processes are conducted in so-called collegial councils. With the proposal submitted by the Government, such processes will be greatly simplified. In isolation, it may sound good, but it may also be so that decisions can be taken by a person in the lease. How does the Council of State think that a person can protect himself against assault on individuals? There is nothing left in the government's proposal, except that the matter can then be tried for the judiciary. Such a process is expensive for the individual, both economically and — not least — emotionally. My challenge is: doesn't the Council of State mean that we are missing the democratic mark when it comes to the security of the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e527	No, of course I don't. We have put forward proposals for changes to the recruitment procedure that we believe are better adapted to a modern era, and which allow too much participation for the employees of the state to continue. At the same time, however, I believe that there is a strong need – if we want to enhance the attractiveness of the state as an employer at the level of leadership – to clarify the management responsibility and to give leaders a clearer role in recruitment. I also think we should be aware that in these collegiate bodies, not only employment issues but also dismissal and dismissal issues have been dealt with, which puts employees' representatives in a difficult and unnecessary conflict of loyalty. In sum, I believe that this is a good simplification proposal, which takes account of the need for modernisation and simplification, but which also takes account of the need for employee participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e536	There was once a government council from the Right Party that wanted to cancel the IA agreement, but because of massive criticism – also from the workers – there was nothing of it. We now see the result: it works very well. We've also had a big discussion about the AFP system. In the case of that agreement, the right has also had the driving role. Recruitment security, the security of state services, consisting of the most qualified women and men, is governed by the rules of employment. Today's collegiate add-on bodies and two-stage treatment ensure that additions are prepared very well. Does the Council not see that the new provision, the change that is now being made, leads to the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e545	No, the council doesn't. I believe that the new, simplified legislation gives good access to participation for employees. And I have great confidence – both in relation to today’s leaders in the state and in relation to the future – that corporate democracy also works well in state activities. With regard to the qualification requirement, we make it even clearer by proposing to legislate. What surprises me when I hear the representative Faldet's posts, is first the great commitment to the work around inclusive working life – an engagement that I fully share. At the same time, there is opposition to the dismantling of a system that has pushed older workers into passivity, which has been a tool that has been misused and has contributed to less attention both from employers, from the system and from employees themselves around obtaining other activities. This is inclusive work in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e556	To present the waiting pay mechanism as an exclusion mechanism falls on its own unfairness, all the time all the organisations, who are very concerned about exclusion, fight with beaks and claws to keep it. This could have been much better managed if you actively tried to use the preference you have in the country. There's a huge circulation of employees in state agencies, and I think it could have been done a lot to get people who get waiting wages, who are becoming overwhelming in different businesses, back into a business as big as the state is. This is the way to operate in large private groups. You try to find space for those you have, within your own businesses, instead of going to redundancy. My main question – finally – is: The Council of State said that he would have equality between employees in the state and employees in the private sector. Does the Council of State from the old government party Right see that being an official in the state, giving advice to a government council, is a special position – compared to working in a private company?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e565	We want to harmonise the rules of the labour market in order to create greater dynamism and to give employees in both the private and public sectors stronger incentives to move across. We believe that this will be a great strength, both for the state, the municipality and the county, and for the private. We believe in the exchange of competences that will be more likely to take place if the barriers between the private and the public are reduced. We also believe it is right in relation to the role of officials to reduce barriers to job protection and harmonise them to the employment protection rules applicable to the rest of the world of work. I see no good reason why officials in the state should have completely different conditions in this area than workers in the county and municipality, who carry out the same tasks on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e572	The cord shift has therefore been completed. The speakers who are given the floor after this have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e577	I don't think it's going to get in the air that the waiting pay system helps push older workers out of work. In fact, I think it is necessary to ask the Council of State and the Government to think in terms of the fact that demands for efficiency, modernisation and reorganisation are very important for people in the labour market and are as much pressure on the individual as waiting wages should be a belief. I believe, in fact, that with the efficiency requirements that are now being imposed, not least thanks to this government, which has such great faith in this, many people are simply unable to stand in the labour market until they retire. Maybe it should be a cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e583	It's a cross of thought. Therefore, the entire government has a strong commitment to the agreement on an inclusive working life, including those areas that extend beyond reducing sick leave. The fact that we have between 600,000 and 700,000 people in pre-employment working life is one of the most important tasks, perhaps the most important, that we have to do with. The waiting pay mechanism has proved to be a poor tool to do something about it. The waiting pay scheme has particularly affected older workers. We have clearly demonstrated, also to Stortinget, that there is less activity both at the employer, at Aetat and at the individual who is covered by the waiting pay scheme than the other jobseekers are covered. This debate may sound as if waiting pay is the means of human resources we have to alleviate the individual disadvantages of conversion. But it's not like that. There is a set of good instruments to minimise the burden on individuals even in state activities. I am concerned that we are using the tools that help to get as much back to work as possible – in the state, in other public activities or in private activities. I also believe that the government in what it has delivered to the Stortinget, has thoroughly documented that the waiting pay system has not been the tool that has really contributed to the focus: Getting back to work. I am sorry because the waiting pay system may have been such a sleeping cushion for the activity that government employers should have been doing. Then I think the representative of the Fall should reflect a little on the period during which the major state conversions were actually decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e594	Governments have now presented many views on waiting pay schemes. But what's pretty important here, and the main criticism is that the employees have not been involved in this process. Obviously, these are rights that you've acquired, which you've had as far back as the early 1900s, and when you take away the employee's rights, you have to run a process. That's important for any conversion. If you're going to be able to make a transition and get the employees on the team, you actually have to have processes. What the Council of State stood here and said after my reply, was that the employees had withdrawn from this process to join in replacing the Government, that's what they wanted. I have to challenge the Council of State once again: Does the Council of State think that the employees have withdrawn from this process because they want another government? Or could there be something about this process that is not in line with the usual rules? I would like to ask: What does the Council of State think is the reason why the employees have withdrawn from the process? He must answer that question because he has been responsible for that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e601	So now we get a round of who did what. It actually sounds a little bit hollow, because we in the Workers' Party are always going to shut up because we're not too much of a change. We were in favour of conversion, that's quite right, but we were in cooperation with the organizations. It was close, close cooperation, and that's what the council should have learned from, so it would have been much better. Instead, something has happened here and there, but the organisations have not been included. That's what the Council of State should have learned from the transition we made at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e606	The representative Eirin Faldet could not have said that the Workers' Party was in favour of changes. It's over. Now it's going to be standing silent, the will to change is gone. I insist, as I said in my main post, that the department added up to a process that would include, that was inclusive. We added up to a consultation deadline that went well beyond what was normal. We established a dialogue precisely with the intention of complying with the requirements of the representative Hansen and the representative Fallet. I don't think I'm the closest one to justify why three of the main associations chose to withdraw, but I'm not a stranger because it's linked to the fact that the three same main associations don't want this government well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e618	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e634	At the request of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e643	It is important and right in an organised society to have a good system that ensures freedom of expression and that ensures different media channels in a good place, but at the same time has legislation that takes care of important societal concerns. We have limited resources of frequencies. We have limited resources in terms of the possibility of having different channels. We probably have limited access to advertising money that can be allocated to the different channels. That's why it's in the best interests of society and freedom of expression to have a code that works. The legislation we produce shall be within a legal framework laid down in Norwegian and international legislation. We often come up with quite large, philosophical and important debates in relation to freedom of expression when it comes to regulating a media area. We have been dealt with a matter that is just about how the public should intervene when legislation is broken. Experience has shown that the measures that can be taken have been so drastic and extensive that it has been difficult to practice the legislation adopted by society. Shutting down a TV channel, blackening the image, closing a radio channel and ensuring that the various opinions no longer reach are instruments that governments will be very, very uncertain about. Therefore, there has been a need for a more nuanced and wider range of responses, so that the different measures are proportionate to the breaches of the rules that have taken place and so that criminal responses or other types of action can be stepped up as you may need it, if it is not in a notorious way that you do not want to follow a code. Such changes are sensible, and therefore the Government has largely endorsed all the proposals that have been promoted. The Committee has supported the Government's view that penalties for breaches of the rules should only be applied in the event of serious infringements. The Government is also supported in the types of offences to be punishable. The government is also supported by the use of charges rather than penalties and the extension of the scope. In addition, we support the Government with regard to the use of warning, so that it also becomes an instrument. The periodic penalty payment is a proposal from the Government. In this setting, the Committee underlines that it is not to be used as a censorship but is used when an obligation has been breached. We support the proposals made by the Government for the implementation of a decision on periodic penalty payments. The last area in which the Government is assisted is covered by the dispute resolution body. Since the Media Authority can instruct a cable owner or one who disposes of the cable network to implement a new choice if the choice has not been made in accordance with the rules in force, we support the Government that today's conflict resolution system is falling away. I would like to add that it is important with the electoral arrangements, but it is also important that the electoral arrangements and requirements around it do not put cable companies or others in a completely impossible negotiating position with suppliers of TV signals, so that at the end of the day it becomes consumers who have to pay a much higher price than they would otherwise have had to pay. Where the government has not received support, it is in the field of promotional publicity and hidden advertising. Here, a minority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, want not to go as far as the Government in giving powers to intervene against what you can consider to be hidden advertising, because this is very close to the different journalistic assessments that the different media have to do themselves. It is quite obvious that if this happens, for example: In return for payment, there is agreement that there is advertising and should be intervened in, but we have not been in favour of the Government's legislative formulation and have a different proposal. The parties to the Government have accepted their proposal and will certainly explain it. But I find that the way it is now, none of the legislative formulations have a majority. In that case, it will mean that the law of the day remains in place. In the case of the Workers' Party, this is something we can live with. I address the proposal that the Labour Party is promoting together with the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e671	The representative Trond Giske has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e674	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough and thorough review of the matter. The main objective of the Government’s proposal in the proposal is to improve control of the content of the programmes broadcast in Norway. New technologies, together with a wide diversity in the broadcasting sector, require authorities to keep an eye on them so that the audience receives the broadcasting offer they require. The right is satisfied that the Government has the support of a more nuanced sanctioning system for infringements of the Broadcasting Act. It shall contribute to the dissemination of broadcasting to the Norwegian public by Norwegian broadcasters and others within a legal framework laid down in Norwegian and international legislation. The right is also satisfied that the Government is joining the item on the ban on the retransmission of illegal programmes. The amendment will allow the Media Authority to ban the retransmission of programmes from foreign television channels via satellite with content that can be seriously harmful to minors. On one point, there is a real disagreement within the Committee, as the rapporteur also pointed out, in the area of bans on advertising and advertising. The purpose of the government’s promotion of this proposal is that there is a need to clarify current legislation. New technology makes it possible to opt out of advertising spots on TV, and there is reason to believe that this could lead to more hidden advertising messages in the programs. I think it is important to stress the government's clear definition of hidden advertising, and that is: when there is a deliberate mention of a product, a service, etc., when the conscious review has a marketing motive, and the marketing motive is not made clear to the public. The Party of Workers, SV and the Centre raise concerns that the prohibition may interfere with editorial freedom and may make it difficult to operate consumer journalism. I believe that the letter of the Council of State to the Committee dated 31 May, on questions from the Committee, makes it clear that these concerns are unfounded and will not be affected by the ban. In the view of the Right, it is therefore clear, both in the rationale and in the bill, that any item or mention of a product, a service, etc. which is clearly reasoned on editorial grounds and where there is no commercial motive behind the presentation, is not affected by the prohibition. I would like to invite the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the SV and the Centre to look at the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party which is now being distributed in the Chamber. I hope that they will be able to give their support to it. It clarifies what should be included in this definition. The government shows that it is also in the forefront of development in this case, and it is very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e697	From the Progress Party we believe that the system of broadcasting concessions is anachronistic and not appropriate. But we recognize that it exists and that we have to deal with it. Then we also have to have a certain regime to deal with the concession rules that exist. The central feature of this setting is the prohibition of promotional publicity and hidden advertising. I record that the NRK, Kanal 24, P4, TV 2, Norwegian Journalist Team, Norwegian Press Association and Norwegian Editorial Association are opposed to the proposal because they believe it is contrary to freedom of expression and editorial freedom. It's a vision I share. I also record that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre say in their comments that they primarily believe ‘that today's legislation works well and believes primarily that no change to the legislation is necessary’. I think that when you have this vision, it's kind of strange that you actually make a proposal, but it's going to be for the sake of these parties. Anyone who has worked in the press in some way, whether on radio, on TV or in a newspaper, knows that promotional publicity is largely stopped by the media itself, as they are subject to press ethics rules that have been proven to work very well in Norway for a long time. Nor is it the case that Norwegian consumers are in no way unconscious, uncritical and passive recipients of the content served to them. It sees all deposit representatives who receive e-mails and letters where people complain, among other things. sponsorship in NRK. What I'm afraid when you blindly introduce such a rule without having thought about the consequences is what will happen to the programme, especially in the case of foreign programmes. We know that e.g. Some American films and series have a number of hidden advertising messages by placing products. One very well-known example is James Bond films, where manufacturers of Omega bells, Bollinger champagne, BMW and Ericsson mobile phones pay in expensive judges to be in the movies. A practical consequence of the law will be that you can ban James Bond films on Norwegian TV. This will be a relatively interesting policy in itself. I also record the continuation of a pediatricity that this government has faced when it comes to the retransmission of so-called "constant" television programmes. It's interesting that you actually put yourself on this line, prohibiting something that's available in all the offices and on all the PCs around. But to the vote that comes: §§ 4-4 and 4-5 will naturally vote against the Advancement Party, according to its comments. In the case of the two different alternatives to § 1-1, I record that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have the primary view that they do not want a paragraph. So, with the support of the Progress Party, they will have a majority in favour of this view. I will then wait until I have heard the submissions from the remaining parties in that constellation before I come back and give an explanation of vote on what the Progress Party is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e714	SV supports the intention to amend the law, which is to ensure that Norwegian broadcasters and operators involved in broadcasting to the Norwegian public ensure that the broadcasts comply with the legal framework applicable to such broadcasts. The SV supports the introduction of more types of new instruments, such as penalties, fees, warnings and periodic penalty payments, which are more adapted to the broadcasting regulatory framework than it is in today’s response system, while providing for more effective and targeted administration of the legislation and responses than in today’s system. At the same time, it is important that these instruments do not compromise legal certainty. SV fully supports the change that is being made, in view of the dissemination of illegal programmes by foreign broadcasters, which, following the amendment of the law, will be a technology-neutral regulation of this problem. SV has long been concerned that there should be different criteria for what can be sent from Norwegian broadcasters than what can be received from foreign companies. The result has been that in several cases foreign broadcasters can send programmes that can harm children and young people in particular. After Article 2a, paragraph 2 of the TV Directive may also prevent a Member State from freely receiving a television broadcast from another Member State if it: ‘obtains a manifest, material and serious breach of Article 22(2). 1 or 2 and/or Article 22a.’;» That means stopping foreign shipments is not an obligation for the country of destination, but it is an opportunity to do so. SV is therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee supports it precisely in this position, and mainly allows the media surveillance to intervene in broadcasts with content that is clearly contrary to the rules of the penal code on pornography and gross acts of violence. It is worth noting that a new second paragraph of Section 4-5 will provide for the possibility to prohibit the sale, rental or marketing of equipment or services intended to make available programmes with illegal content. This supports SV. SV disagrees at one point in the setting, and it is in the question of hidden advertising. However, SV is pleased that this issue has been raised from the valley of the shadows, and that it is seen as a real threat to the credibility of a broadcaster if hidden advertising becomes too tempting for the sender to take advantage of recipients who are in good faith, without knowing that they are being subjected to massive influence. As such, there is no majority for any of the proposals for the new sections 1 to 1 fifth paragraph. On the SV side, we believe that it is important to get this in place. In investigations earlier today, we are made aware that none of the other parties intend to vote subsidiaryly for any other proposal. Now the representative Knudsen has changed his mind, and that means that the Progress Party will see what's going on. Then I think it's most neat from SV's side to say that we're subtracting from the proposal we're making. We will support the new proposal Ola T. Loan has promoted on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Right, on the grounds that it is very close to the other proposal. In fact, it's a better proposal than what we originally made. We therefore support the proposal that Mr Lånke has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e736	On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Government has received broad support for most of its proposals for amendments to the Broadcasting Act. With broad support, I mean all parties with the exception of the Advance Party, which have differing comments in some areas. The proposal proposes a better and more nuanced sanctioning system for violations of broadcasting law than we have today. I hesitate to refer to the rapporteur's articles on the various points. But one point I feel the need to say something about. This concerns the definition of so-called hidden advertising by the bill. The phenomenon of hidden advertising is something we know from many contexts. It lies in the very concept that there is something ‘hidden’ and therefore not easy to reveal. Hidden advertising acts as a foreign message that will compete for our attention in relation to what was to be perceived as the real message in a text, a TV or a radio program. Today, there is a ban on hidden advertising in the broadcasting regulation, but the term is not defined. However, it is in the case that the enforcement of a ban on hidden advertising must be based largely on judgement. Still, we think it might be a good idea to give enforcement concrete points of view on how to understand the rule. That's what the government has tried to do in the proposition. In this context, then, the law enforcement authority is the Media Authority. The definition of hidden advertising proposed by the Government suggests that it must concern the presentation of goods, services, trademarks, etc., which are deliberate marketing, and which may be misleading to people as to whether it is actually marketing. Attention has also been paid to the fact that the presentation must be intentional and have an effect on the market. This definition is further explained in the proposition. The Committee's position has shown that this definition has not been supported by the majority. The representative Trond Giske has proposed a different definition on behalf of three parties – now I see that there are some changes going on here. At the same time, the same parties say in their comments that they consider that there is no need to amend the legislation, because it works well as it is. The Party of Advances has on its side signaled that they will vote against both the proposed variants, both from the Government and from those batches. So we're in the situation that there's no majority for anything in the first place. Then we will be left with today's legislation, which says the ban on hidden advertising, but which gives few and unclear moments to act on for the Media Authority. It'll be short and too bad. From our point of view, we have looked at the difference between the two proposals before us, and we have come to the conclusion that it is possible to draw on the proposal of the three parties, presented by the rapporteur, and to change it a little by taking out three words. These are the words ‘on the part of the broadcaster’. It will then be able to take account of the importance of this proposal. We believe it is very important to ensure that hidden advertising is banned, regardless of whether it occurs in a programme produced by the broadcaster himself, for example. NRK, or whether it was purchased from an external manufacturer. The proposal of the opposition parties suggests that the ban on hidden advertising should only apply to programmes produced by the broadcaster itself, while programmes produced by others and ordered and purchased from outside to the company should be free. When we then know that only the NRK has its own productions to some extent, these parties' proposals, if adopted, would only affect the NRK, while other broadcasters would escape. Our proposal to define hidden advertising will initially include both the broadcaster's self-produced programme and the purchased ones. With regard to the purchased programmes, it would be unreasonable for the broadcaster to be responsible for hidden advertising in all such programmes, for example: in foreign feature films. The proposers therefore believe that our proposal for the definition of hidden advertising should have limited scope in relation to certain types of purchased programme, the same limitation as that made at this point in the legislative proposal. It should be admitted that it seems somewhat incomprehensible that parties which usually define themselves as the ‘left-hand side’ of Norwegian policy are the ones fighting for the most liberal proposal in the case of hidden marketing in the media. In retrospect, it would have to become completely illogical if these parties, of all people, were to be those who shouldered the market forces and made sure that they got free play in the media – against the government parties. I therefore finally want to congratulate Mr. Lund Bergo, the representative, on the fact that they will now support the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber and that has been submitted by the Right and Christian People's Party. I think that's what will give the media surveillance that enforces the broadcasting law the best tool in terms of the phenomenon of hidden advertising. I will end by addressing the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e768	The representative of Ola T. Lånke has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e771	I'm glad that the majority in the committee joins most of the proposals for changes to the broadcasting laws presented in Ot.prp. No Seventy-six. This allows us to put in place a regulatory framework that can help the Norwegian public to receive a broadcasting offer in accordance with the frameworks of both Norwegian and international legislation. But at an important point, the government's proposal does not seem to get in touch. That applies to the Government's proposal to define hidden advertising. I'm afraid the resistance to this point is based on a misinterpretation of the proposal. So here I want to clarify the government's vision and the reasons for it. Today I can actually say that I am completely in agreement with the representative Trond Giske! The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party state in the setting that it will intervene in editorial freedom if the mention of a concert or play can be considered as hidden advertising because the review is intentional and may have a marketable effect. The prohibition proposed by the Government does not frame such editorially motivated entries, even when these may have an unintended marketing effect. Those who have taken the trouble to read the Government's proposal know that. It is when such presentations take place on the basis of a commercial marketing motive and not on the basis of a purely editorial assessment that they can be considered as hidden advertising. The prohibition of disguised advertising shall prevent editorial and marketing from being confused. Both the EU TV Directive and the Council of Europe's television convention require that we ban hidden advertising. We fulfil that obligation today by having such a ban in the broadcasting code. But the regulation doesn't define hidden advertising. Media surveillance cannot without further reason reason that the definition of hidden advertising by the TV Directive applies under Norwegian law. This has created uncertainty as to where the limits of the ban go. If the Storting decides today to legislate against hidden advertising, but not at the same time adopt a definition of the encroachment of hidden advertising, we will not clear this uncertain or the way. In the setting, the Labour Party, SV and the Centre have proposed a different definition of hidden advertising. It is contained in line with the Government's proposal, with an important exception. Following the government's proposal, the broadcaster will, in certain circumstances, be responsible for hidden advertising in purchased programmes. This will include: frame hidden advertisements in applications produced by others on behalf of the broadcaster. After the wording, the opposition's proposal will frame marketable product and service presentations in programmes if the presentation is made by the broadcaster. Someone might think that the rule is not to frame such presentations in applications that the broadcaster itself has not produced. In this case, the rule will primarily affect the NRK, which is the only Norwegian broadcaster that produces its own programmes to a particular extent. The rule may lessen the responsibility of broadcasters to prevent hidden advertising from programmes they purchase or order. For example, most of the programs on TVNorway and TV2 and many in NRK are purchased from independent producers, or programmes are produced by independent producers on behalf of broadcasters. As an attempt to establish whether or not a legal text, the government has submitted a new proposal based on the opposition's proposal, but makes it clearer that broadcasters' responsibility for hidden advertising is not limited to self-produced applications. This will allow you to focus on the elements of enforcement that are represented by the proposition. It's unfortunate that the definition in the laws doesn't use the same geometry that we have in the law definition of ordinary advertising, but the government's motive was to ensure that a clearer definition is adopted. And then my question is: do those who support the definition in the setting really think it's okay that programs like 'Senkveld', 'Idol' and '71 degrees North' will be packed with marketing product references? I find it quite alarming that a party that has been supporting and is constantly talking about market liberalism and commercialisation is behind such a proposal that can be interpreted as if the broadcaster is not responsible for hidden advertising in the purchase of programs. I am very pleased that SV now supports the new proposal of the government party to define hidden advertising and thus secures multiple numbers so that we get a clear rule on this ban. It is important to avoid over-impact of commercial forces on the programme content of broadcasting. That goal shows SV not only in words, but also in action that they now support. But I'm still amazed at the Labour Party's attitude in this matter. Yesterday, he said from this pulpit that he was ‘critical to the increasing place of market forces in society’. Then it's strange that he's no longer interested in creating clear frameworks for the broadcaster's responsibilities to distinguish editorial and commercially motivated content in the program. And to make it clear: it's not forbidden to show James Bond movies on television in Norway on the different channels, just so that everyone is aware of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e796	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e799	Let me first say that it is a pleasure to hear the council say that she is pleased that the Storting largely adheres to the legislative paragraphs proposed by the Government. In other cases where you largely agree with the legislative paragraphs proposed by the Government, you have reacted in a slightly different way. But now leave it. After all, state councils let the cats out of the bag here when she says that there are programs that are not self-produced, for example. “Seinfeld” I think she mentioned as an example of a program that has hidden advertising, which is then unacceptable. It will be interesting to see which programmes disappear from Norwegian TV screens, if foreign purchased series that have brand advertising in them are no longer to be shown on Norwegian TV. On 15 May of this year, the Media Authority sent a letter to the ‘Nitimmen’ criticising the ‘Nitimmen’ for an entry on Kvikk Lunsh and asked for an answer on a breach of the advertising ban by 5 June because they had interviewed people who had made Kvikk Lunsh. Does the Council of State think this is a task for the Media Authority to stop so-called hidden advertising?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e808	Now, it's just not all the legislative proposals that are not passed, which is the same range, and so we may not have fought as much this time as when it comes to other legislative proposals that have been voted down in this room. Enough about that. So I want to correct: I don't mean "Seinfeld", I call "Senkveld". It is a Norwegian produced application. I don't know if the representative Geske has ever seen it, but it's quite different than "Seinfeld" at least, so it's also taken out of that discussion. One of the problems with media surveillance writing letters and trying to clean up is that there's been such a bad code, and now we want to actually create a better code. If a program about Kvikk Lunsj is there because one is going to sell more Kvikk Lunsj, and it is Freia who is behind it and has paid for the program, it is absolutely hidden advertising. But that's not the same thing as never being able to call a program "Kvik Lunsj" because there might be other reasons why a person does it than having the hidden advertisement behind it. This requires better media supervision to decide, and that's why we want clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e817	It is with great joy that I note that the Council of State has saved James Bond. Everyone knows that in the James Bond movies you have some hidden ads in the form of watches, cars, etc., as you know. But this is not quite clear to me, so I would like to ask the Council of State here to clarify the following: What if one in «71 degrees north» has been sponsored by Helly Hansen and goes with Helly Hansen clothes in the program – a clearly hidden advertisement? What if the TV 2’s ‘TV kitchen’ features teapots and pots, what about the refurbishment programs where the local plumber, stirs the Olsen, comes with advertising on the chest? This is hidden advertising. Are these programmes also to be banned, or are they, like the James Bond films, except for this paragraph? I want a clarification here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e822	Yes, this is a discussion theme that has been quite uncertain about. Therefore, it is important that we have a regulatory framework that is clear on how this should be implemented. If you have a program that is clear that there is someone who buys space to sell it and the goods, there is hidden advertising. If you have an application that presents some kind of tool or what it might be, it is not in itself hidden advertising; it may be consumer information. Here, I think we need a clearer code. It is not illegal to tell good books, it is not illegal to tell good theater views, it is not illegal to tell good concerts or CDs, nor is it illegal to drive consumer information about different goods. But that's why I think we need this code to clean up, so that one can't buy room for goods to be sold through a program.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e827	This issue does not concern advertising for which it is paid, it is clearly formulated in the legal paragraph that it is intentional, conscious. But let me illustrate it with the Kvikk Lunsh example. The letter that the Media Inspectorate wrote to the ‘Nitima’ describes an entry where the reporter says the following: Kvikk Lunsh is number four on the chocolate top in Norway, so it's a really popular product, and it's just turned off by Freia Melkesjokolade, Firklöver and Twist. And here we're talking about the "Nitimum" – no payment, it's a report from a chocolate factory. It is so serious for the Media Authority that they ask for an explanation from the NRK by 5 June. Now this case stopped, because you did not have a legal basis to pursue it. But after what I understand, SV will now, together with the Government, make sure that we get a legal support to pursue the Kvikk Lunsh report and so on. Does not the Council of State really think that the Media Authority has other and more important tasks to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e836	Now, I think it's the representative who's wasting a little bit, because what was the plural setting was that this should be regulated in all the self-produced programs that the NRK has, but in all the others it shouldn't be regulated. We actually want this to be a regulation that happens in all self-produced applications, both those that NRK has, and those that the others have. So the case of the representative, Gish, will be the subject of this law according to his wording. For this is a program that the NRK itself produces, and only those that will be the frame of the formulation behind it. So I really don't understand that it was going to be a big problem for him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e841	It is possible that I have unusually heavy for it. I only have four years of high school education and eight years in Stortinget, so the council has to explain me once again: what about programs like '71 degrees north', which have products that you have collected because you have paid for it? What about any TV 2 kitchen? What about programs like 'Extrem Upussing' and the like? Will these fall under this paragraph and thus be prohibited if the majority of the Grand Duchy so decides?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e846	When creating a program as some of the people mentioned here, one has to dress. I don't want them to have to cut the labels if, for example: has a Bergan bag on it or whatever it might be. It is obvious that people must be allowed to have equipment in programs, and the labels that are on people's clothes will still be there. What's the difference is whether the motive behind the presentation is commercial or non- editorial. There's a difference. Having a commercial motive for use and presentation, it's hidden advertising. If there's an editorial explanation for that, it's not hidden advertising. That's the main difference. Then it is important that we get a better and clearer regulation. When it comes to the example that Trond Giske's representative had of Kvikk Lunsh, it's a long-standing case, and the Media Authority has repeatedly told the NRK that it was a wrong understanding of the rules, and they didn't have a clear enough code either.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e855	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e860	After my little dispute with the Council of State, it might have been a little clarification. It was good that we got some clarifications in relation to a law like this, which can be very difficult to understand. It is clear that you are concerned, because you want the Norwegian TV audience to have a richest TV offer to choose from. For my part, I have a rich DVD collection to fall back on whether the offer from Norwegian TV would be too bad. And that DVD collection is the KrF-free zone, so I can live long and well on it. As for my opening post today, I said something about feeling a certain uncertainty about what it actually looked like to be a majority and not a majority for in this hall in this area. I have to make it clear here that it is not right as SV says, that the Progress Party has changed its mind on this matter. It is clear from the setting which is SV's primary view, and SV actually has an opportunity to get through its primary view. But when they see that they can get through their primary vision, they run away from it. We just have to note that they do, and the Progress Party will then be voting against both alternatives to Section 1-1 as they exist – or all three options, it is well in and separately now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e870	This is a small initialization from the Center Party. The centre party supports the proposition. I did not think it necessary to take the word in addition to what the case spokesperson said. But I see that there have been some problems about Section 1-1 that I would like to clarify. For the Central Party it is important that Section 1-1 does not conflict with freedom of expression and editorial freedom. We also don't want it to be the intentional use of hidden advertising, and it seems that there has been a fairly large majority in this room who want it the same. That's what it's all about. When there are examples of both Kvikk Lunsj and Firklöver, I assume that the Council of State takes note of what is being said in the debate here now, and takes it with it when the Department is going to make regulations for this legal text, so that the Media Authority is clearly informed of how to interpret the law. In both proposals, the last sentence reads: ‘This presentation is considered to be intentional in particular if it is made in return for payment or similar remuneration.’ It's my clear impression that it's all, except for the Progress Party, combined in. The central party supports the proposal in the vote. But I ask that the voting be put up so that, when it comes down, we can subsidize proposal No. 2, which is promoted by Ola T. Loan on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e888	First to what the representative Lånker calls a minor change, the three words ‘by the broadcaster’. There's no slight change at all, that's all the significant change in the paragraph. For example, in a program such as ‘Senkjord’ provides: artists, obviously, to market their releases of music. Although the broadcaster considers this to be editorial and journalistic display, the artist and the record label will obviously be made available for marketing purposes. So removing the constraint ‘on the part of the broadcaster’ opens up a completely different world for intervention against different programmes, including: ‘Senkveld’, to which the Council of State referred, but of course also ‘First and Last’ with Skavlan and the type of programme, where different artists and others present themselves and their products in an obvious attempt to sell more. The fact that SV is involved in this, which will then limit the possibilities for these artists to market their products, is quite interesting. We come in the situation that a proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre do not get a majority despite the fact that the Progress Party supports it, because one of the parties behind the proposal is withdrawing. We're going to hope that this isn't used in the election campaign as an argument that a majority government might not be a majority government anyway. It feels a little absurd to be in a situation where your own proposals fall due to the proposers themselves. You might wonder what it's like in a government cooperation with that kind of cooperation. But the work of getting rid of the government we now have is so important that we're going to go into it with open eyes anyway. I guess it's going to go well in the end, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e899	I am forced to explain from the pulpit – not to be abused in the election campaign by some representatives – that of course musicians should be allowed to participate in programs and present their new songs. It's not that. I actually thought that was clear, I thought we had prepared very well. I request that it be noted. It's not the idea that people from culture, people from theatre, writers who have written books, osb., osb., shouldn't be allowed to present their books, their songs. It should be allowed still, that's not what we shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e906	It appears that there is a need for a new round of clarifications. In my post I referred to the Progress Party and the representative Knudsen, who now concluded in the same way that he did to me earlier today, where it was made clear that the Progress Party would not subsidize any of the proposals that existed. We were interested in forming a majority and getting it in place, and we figured that when the representative Knudsen expressed this, it was what he meant at least for three hours to come. So there has been a new proposal on the table – it came after the majority had given their vote. And as I said in my main post, when we find that we want to support it, it's not because we run from the proposal we were behind, but because we actually think that the new is better. I would say that with the proposal that is now on the table, which is made after our reading – and as I said, actually better – I find it amazing that the Workers' Party and the Centre cannot be involved in drawing their proposals and supporting the new directly. I sometimes see politics as a game. This is a bad game. I have cleared up the proposal today. I have had contact with lawyers, including lawyers in media institutions in Norway, who say that the proposal now available from the Government can safely go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e919	It is interesting to hear the representative, Giske, who has now taken a firm stand on the side of advertising power and is fighting against regulation in terms of influence on the ether and on television. The representative Giske says that the proposal that I have made on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party contains more changes than what I should have claimed. I don't think that's right. There are no major changes, but they are significant. That means that everyone is equal. It is no longer the case that only those producing their own programmes are affected — mainly the NRC in Norway, because almost only the NRC produces its own programmes — but all should be able to be taken in the same way. I think that when you go in detail and mention some programs, such as ‘First and Last’ and others that you are now afraid to get this against you, it is an exaggeration that does not belong to this law. What has been said is that this should be based on discretion. The media surveillance authority shall exercise a discretion, it shall be assessed whether it has been promoted or presented for promotional purposes, whether it is so functioning, inter alia. I trust that this will be handled in a good way in relation to the legislation. Now I think we have got a well-balanced set of rules in the new proposal that has come, which should be able to form the starting point for such an assessment, such a judgement. For me it's all pathetic to hear the representative Giske now trying to make cultural policy out of this by suggesting that artists won't be allowed to get into programs. It falls on its own unreasonableness. Of course they do. That's not what this is about, it's about taking the growth of a sales promotion that a lot of companies are using in relation to produced programs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e932	I note that the word 'patetic' is now included in the parliamentary language, since it passed here. The representative of the Christian People's Party completely failed to talk about the content of the matter, namely the change that is now being made, from whom this purpose and motive originate. We had specified that it was the broadcasting company. I assume that by removing from the right side of the Christian People's Party the three words «from the broadcaster's side», one expands who is going to have the goal of advertising. So far we must agree. Then we start talking about those who participate in the programs. I was not the one who started to mention these programs – it was the council that specifically referred to a program as ‘Senkveld’, which is quite parallel to a program like ‘First & Last’ at the NRK, where you invite different guests to talk about different things. On ‘Senkveld’, that’s what you do. You invite different artists, musicians and others to talk about their products – their CDs, their books, their movies, etc. – for the obvious purpose of getting people to buy the CD, buy the book, watch the movie, etc. Then the Council of State comes up and says it's not meant to be. Then I wonder which entries of ‘Senkveld’ she is really most concerned about, because ‘Senkveld’ consists of such entries. I assume that it's not Harald Rønneberg who does things he can't, the Council of State is aiming for in the 'Senkveld' context. But where does that limit go? If you get a coffee maker to talk about his new coffee product on lunch TV – well to notice without payment, because as soon as it becomes payment, we agree on the matter – is that where the limit goes? The point is that it's going to be completely floating. We would have specified that it is the broadcaster who must have the advertising target with the entry. If the broadcasters NRK, TV 2 or TVNorway consider this to be of journalistic interest and journalistic interest to them, the Media Regulatory Authority shall not be able to intervene and defeat it, even though the interviewer obviously has advertising intentions. We're coming back to Kvikk Lunsh. I am not in doubt that Freia is talking about Kvikk Lunsh on February 22nd because they want to sell more Kvikk Lunsh. It's quite obvious. But I think that Nitimen makes an entry about Kvikk Lunsj because it's an interesting product, almost a cultural product – that's what you bring in the bag when you're going on a Easter holiday. It's a journalistic entry. It would have been very interesting to clarify where the boundaries go, if Ola T. Loans on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party can clarify that that's what's meant, that it's an extension of who has advertising intentions or advertising motives compared to what we're proposing. That that's a significant change, must be obvious. So it's great that SV has talked to different legal advisors. It's awfully stupid that they don't even talk to their co-suggestants.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e949	I just had to rush a little bit when Ola T. Lånk seemed a little surprised that it had now become a cultural policy debate. The NRK is actually a huge cultural institution. Fortunately, the NRK is subject to laws and regulations as a public broadcaster. But it is well for the journalists in the NRK as in any other media that they have a journalistic freedom, and they must actually be allowed to. I want to have NRK as it is, in the public broadcasting role and with the responsibility NRK shows. I'm a little scared that we're now getting into a little comical debate here, because we're now discussing an excessive media surveillance. We are now assured that it will not be prohibited to talk about Kvikk Lunsh on the radio, but we can now suddenly get into the situation that they are talking about something else on the radio, and then maybe it is a media surveillance that would like to have a task to run with. I have to say that it is important to ring around the NRK, and I would probably have wished that we had listened more to what the management in the NRK said, than what I experience is done to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e958	Ola T. Loan has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e961	NRK is a cultural institution. It should be, and therefore we also want it to be able to withstand the market forces and those who want to permeate it with advertising, so that it is not destroyed as a cultural institution. It also applies to other channels. To this end with hidden advertising: Yes, our proposal basically represents an extension in terms, because it should be not only about the programs produced by the broadcaster itself, but also about those ordered and purchased from the outside. Section 3-3 states that there should be no hidden advertising. The section that we're proposing here is a definition of what it's all about. This means, then, an extension, so that there could be a ban on hidden advertising also in programmes ordered and purchased, not only in those produced by the broadcaster himself, and then in practice the NRK in Norway, which is the only one here that produces mostly itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e970	Ulf Erik Knudsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e973	I recently took part in a debate at the Editor's Association. There was one of the debaters who came to the conclusion that the Christian People's Party had in its time opposed the introduction of colour television – colour television was supposed to be the devil's work. Perhaps the conclusion of this debate is that it is Kvikk Lunsh who is the devil's work. The representative Lånke used the word ‘patetic’ — a rare word from this pulpit. In this way, I think it is the best characteristic of SV's attempts to explain away. You don't want a majority in this room because what it actually says in the setting is SV's primary view. We notice in what's coming from the pulpit here, that it's cracking in the red-green community, and it's going to be fun to see SV and the Workers' Party reign together when SV has a durability of its views in just under two days. It could be an interesting exercise in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e983	The word 'patetic' really means something, so the President assumes that, in line with good parliamentary vocabulary, it is at least not cross the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e986	I think «patetic» really means «excessive emotionally». In the case of the exactly the value that Ola T. Lånke put in it, it didn't matter that I had made a gripping good post – I think the value might have been a little more negative than that. But now let it go. We must be able to live with that. I am glad that it was now confirmed that there is a significant change here, namely that you are expanding in relation to who has the purpose of advertising the entry. But it was the Council of State that used the 'Senkveld', '71 degrees north' and the various training programmes as examples in a response to the Progress Party. It is also obvious to me here too that when there are 30 carpenters in Asgeir’s “Extrem Upussing”, it is not only of the touching concern of those who are going to get a new house, it is also because all 30 people have a jersey on them where the name of the plumber’s or carpenter’s company or whatever it is. I understand that the kind of thing is now being banned, because now it's going to be possible to turn it down not only for the advertising of the broadcaster, but also for the advertising of the participant – I understand, I understand; artists are excluded. So it's obviously the preliminary work on the debate in Odelstinget that sets limits on this, even if the legal text opens up completely different things. I wish you had that attitude towards law-makers and processors in other matters that we've discussed here, but we get to respect the fact that you've now set the limit so that it doesn't apply to artists. Then my questions remain: what kind of product placement, what kind of participants and what kind of advertising is what you want to turn down, well to note in all the entries where the person responsible for the programme, the broadcaster, believes that it is journalistically sound to believe that this does not serve an advertising purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e995	Magnar Lund Bergo has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e998	I think it's important to approach politics with an open mind. We have done that in this case, precisely because there was a new proposal on the table that takes care of what we mean initially, and actually improves what we say. The expansion that is coming will just mean that not only the NRK, but also the TV2 and the other institutions will be able to hit. What's interesting is that with the proposal we originally made, mainly the NRK could be hit, while the commercial companies could only buy productions and in a way have their backs free. With the new proposal available, we have a better safety net. That is the main reason why we then choose to support the new proposal that exists. To Ulf Erik Knudsen's comment on the red-green government: Yes, we are different parties, and we shall continue to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e1007	It's actually a little fun to see how the representative Giske reacts when he doesn't get his will completely through. I think any cooperation in a red-green government will be the worst thing for – no, I won't say anything more about it. But for once again to clarify some of the questions that have been raised: the point of the proposal that is currently being made, which seems to be agreed, is that programs like 'Senkjørd' and 'First & Last' are going to be treated the same way. Eirin Fallet was so busy by the NRK, poor NRK! But then the representative must be aware that only the NRK will be framed by the proposal that she will vote for – not the others. So if you're busy with NRK, you have to go for the Progress Party line. To say it like that, I'm busy with the NRK, I'm busy with the NRK getting a code that's similar to what everyone else has. So the post that was here instead of the poor NRK testifies to the fact that the representative Fallet didn't know what she was into. What Giske also says in his articles is that all the others should skip the requirements because programs are purchased. Then we have a distinction between the producers themselves and the people who buy programs, and that will lead to the NRK putting out almost all of their programs to have a lot of hidden ads in them. That's what's the consequence of what now seems to be becoming a minority. That the Progress Party thought it was okay, I really don't think it's so hard to understand, but I think it's strange that the Labour Party thinks this. I realize this isn't easy. It's not easy to create clear rules, but now we've tried to make the rules clearer than they were. The rules on hidden advertising are similar to the ethical rules set up by the press organisations, and we have suggested from the Ministry's side that the Media Authority should have a dialogue with the press and broadcasting bodies to administer the new legislation. The legislation must also be used with caution, as stated in the proposal. But clear rules are needed. Then I thought it was a little bad, after Kvikk Lunsj has been pulled out both once and the other time, that it is not possible to listen after when an answer is given. This is an old thing. The media authorities themselves have said that they used the code wrong, or that they didn't have a good code to stick to. There is no current item. This makes it a little foolish that one and the other use it as an example, when I stand here in the pulpit and say that they have actually regretted the letter they sent. I hope that at least now it's ready for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e1022	The term "bad" is probably a bit on the edge. Next is Trond Giske. He's currently the last recorded speaker. The President will not in any way try to limit the debate, but wonder if this is not debated now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e1029	There are many chocolate brands that need protection for journalistic purposes, so we're not done here yet. The council said it was interesting to see the representative guess when he does not get his will. Well, whose state council electord Reply City Haugland had reacted with the same stoic calm in the defeat hour on Saturday and in the last weeks in relation to the copyright law that I do in relation to a dramatic defeat in this matter, we had saved ourselves too much delinquency. I will not promise to send out press releases with false information about the stand of the government parties, nor spread concern in the advertising departments of the chocolate manufacturers. However, this is a serious matter, for it is a matter of when the authorities are to be empowered to intervene in journalistic programmes. We believe that the threshold for that should be very high. It's about who has the motivation for advertising, before you go in and simply give fines or other criminal reactions to media channels. Governments are shaking their heads. It is also a parliamentary way of working. But it doesn't matter to the channels what discretionary powers we give the authorities to intervene against the NRK, against TV 2, against the radio, or against other media channels when we think they are crossing a border. Other countries have very liberal legislation, because it is so fundamental to freedom of expression that we must be critical of intervention. I understand that the Council of State and the Government have a different view of this. They also receive support from SV. I think that Ulf Erik Knudsen from the Progress Party does not need to instruct us to change our position on different issues. It is enough that parties without government responsibility and with no experience with it have easier to change their positions than those who have had it. It is precisely for this reason that it is now so important to get SV into the government offices, so that they gain experience with it and can become a stable partner for the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. I am absolutely convinced that we have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e1042	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 1012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e1050	The Odelsting should then be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e1058	During the debate, Mr Konglevole has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. First of all, there is a vote on this proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on property registration, the following paragraphs shall be deleted:Section 3(i) and (j). The Ministry's proposal for points (k) to (n) becomes letter (i) to (l) § 8 first paragraph:Requirements for the matriculation of the measuring shop are issued by the municipality.§ 22 seventh paragraph is stroked. The Ministry’s proposal for the eighth to tenth subparagraph becomes the seventh to the ninth paragraph.§ 24 third paragraph:As soon as the municipality has been informed that the lighting of things has been carried out as foreseen, the municipality must complete the feeder guide, and confirm this by issuing matricles. The municipality shall send the bill of lading to the person who has required the measuring business to be fed. Where the boundary with neighbouring matrikeleiningen is marked or re-measured, the municipality shall send copies of the bill of lading, or a relevant extract thereof, to the owners and any attachments thereof. Chapter 7:Chapter 7 Measurement business§ 33 first paragraph:The Community shall clarify and describe in its measurement business limits and justices in line with its claims and documents submitted by the parties, and otherwise provide information and documentation necessary for the provision of food and, where appropriate, for information on matters.§ 33 fourth paragraph:The Community and the parties have access to private and public property in accordance with § 41. In case of movement on a neighbouring basis, the representative of the municipality shall present, on request, an agreement on a mission.§ 36, first to third subparagraphs:The community shall take care of the interests of all parties and carry out the task in accordance with good land-painting practice.The community shall notify the time and place of the survey operation in a demonstrative manner with at least one week's notice. The parties may accept shorter notices or other means of notification. The notice shall state the nature of the business, the procedure and the means of redress. If the municipality or any of them join the municipality or any one of them who is close to it has or becomes financially or personally interested in the task of measuring the debt, the parties shall immediately be informed thereof.§ 37 shall be chosen.§ 38:§ 38 The municipality's obligation to carry out measurement operationsThe municipality shall be obliged to carry out all the tasks of measuring the transaction presented by a person who is required to have the measuring business mattrickeled in the municipality. Charges for such a measuring shop are paid by regulation fixed by the local authority itself. A charge shall be paid for such a measurement transaction under the VAT law. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on such measuring operations under this heading on time limits and fees.§ 41, first paragraph:Measuring work in connection with work under this Act, the Planning and Building Act or the Ownership Act may be carried out on public and private grounds, subject to the limitations imposed by law. As far as possible, the work shall be done without prejudicing the landowner or other interests. The corresponding liability for other measuring tasks carried out on behalf of the State or the municipality, or under the direction of the local authority or state's geodetic professional body.§ 46, first paragraph, point l:l) Determination of fees and refusal to carry out measuring operations; the Ministry's proposal to § 46, first paragraph, letters n and o become the letters m and n. § 46, third paragraph is the same. The Ministry's proposal for the fourth paragraph becomes a new third paragraph.§ 51, second, third, fourth and sixth paragraphs are deleted. The Ministry’s proposal for the fifth paragraph becomes the second paragraph.§ 52 paragraph. 11 Amendment to the Law on Planning and Building§ 93b nr. 1 new second paragraph :Those referred to in Section 9 of the Law on Property Registration may apply for permission to create new land, new plant property, new land or new soil or land transfer permit.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2566	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they now want to vote in favour of the law subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2577	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2587	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2595	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2640	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they are moving towards these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2671	Paragraphs 2 to 13 of the second paragraph, second sentence, present an aberrant proposal, No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act amending Law No 6 June 2003 39 on shelling, etc. [[burette-covered law]] It shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 2-13, second paragraph, second sentence is replaced by the following: Before transferring the title, the right to reside in the layer shall be entered in the register of contents.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2709	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they are moving towards it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2759	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2811	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Sections 6 to 17 are replaced by the following: Injury liability The registry owner shall pay losses incurred by any lir without its own fault in: [[1]] 1. to have little on a certificate of registration or deletion, or on a certified registry printing,2. a right server in the event of an error not being registered or being registered or finally registered too late;3. that a right-servv must be retained in accordance with Section 6-12 for a later registered acquisition, or 4. that registration has been made on the basis of a document as mentioned in the second paragraph of Section 6-13, and someone in good faith has been registered with a right based on agreement, in trust with the data subject. Otherwise, the registry owner is responsible for any loss for which any lire is liable by the registry owner or the registry owner or any person for whom the registry owner or the registry administrator is responsible pursuant to the damage warrant § 2-1. [[2]] This also applies to erasure or deficient follow-up and/or to ensuring that the register information is broken in whole or in part.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2887	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e2910	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 14-9 new eighth and ninth paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: Prohibition of confiscation in proportion to the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the [[8]] [[9]] If, in accordance with Sections 14-17, restrictions on the right to vote are agreed in accordance with Sections 7-10, the restrictions may continue as far as they follow the previous rules.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3047	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3073	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3083	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3183	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3193	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3249	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3259	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3358	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3368	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3415	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3480	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3490	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3498	During the debate, Eirin Faldet has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 67 [[2004-2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3941	An alternative is to vote between the nomination and the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3954	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will also vote against this. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3969	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e3977	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Ola T. Loans on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2 will be replaced by the proposal for a decision under Section 1-1. The President will draw attention to the fact that the Socialist Left Party originally participated on proposal No. 1, but they have indicated during the debate that they are in favour of the proposal which replaces the proposal for a decision under Section 1-1. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law No 4 December 1992 127 on broadcasting shall be amended as follows:§ 1-1, fifth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The term ‘hidden advertising’ means the oral or visual presentation in programmes of goods, services, names, trademarks or activities of a producer of goods or of a service provider, if the presentation by the broadcaster is intended to serve advertising purposes and the public may be misled as to the nature of the presentation. Such presentation shall be considered intentional in particular if it is made in return for payment or similar remuneration.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e4027	There is therefore a new proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party to replace the motion for a resolution. The proposal reads as follows: «In Act No. 4 December 1992 No. 127 on broadcasting shall be amended as follows:§ 1-1, fifth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The expression ‘hidden advertising’ means the oral or visual presentation in programmes of goods, services, names, trademarks or activities of a producer of goods or of a service provider, if the presentation is intended to serve advertising purposes and the public may be misled as to the nature of the presentation. Such presentation shall be considered intentional in particular if it is made in return for payment or similar remuneration.’;» The Socialist Left Party has announced that they support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party, and the Central Party has announced that they will now support it subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e4049	So the fifth and sixth terms of the paragraphs are going to be after this sixth and seventh terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e4081	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e4175	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e4271	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e4281	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower-2.ana.ud1093e4292	There is no record.
