ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e144	The President would like to remind the Assembly that this morning's sitting will be held until noon. 16th@item: inlistbox Representative Rolf Terje Klungland will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e149	I allow myself to promote a proposal to introduce a law on salmonids and inland fish in order to allow intervention where public access to fish rivers is not in line with the conditions for support for liming.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e154	The representative Heikki Holmås will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e157	On behalf of Ågot Valle and myself, I would like to make a private proposal on measures for children who have been in reception for a long time. In line with the Rules of Procedure of Section 28 of the Third paragraph c of the Storting, I would ask that this proposal be made transparent to members of the Storting for at least one day and then listed on the map for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e164	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e178	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e189	It is very critical that the defense in 2004 had an unwelcome additional consumption of NOK 1.1 billion, and that this was discovered in January, after the new aging was completed in Stortinget. Last December, we discussed in this Chamber theproposal of the Ministry of Defence for just 2004. Great sums were moved on, so many that as committee leader I was on the pulpit and noticed it. But we approved the changes and closed the budgetary work for 2004 – we thought. So it turned out to be non-voting. One billion dollars in over-exploitation, after the Riksrevision failed to approve the accounts for 2003 and had critical remarks for several years before that, is the responsibility of the Government and the Minister of Defence. When the Stortinget grants money to state enterprises, the Government and the Council of State are responsible for managing the funds allocated. It is also the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that her military chief and the various heads of department have adequate financial management and do not have an activity level exceeding the budgeted framework. The Minister of Defence has a responsibility to inform the Storting whether the funds allocated have been synchronised with structure and activity. Let me add that when the Stortinge dealt with the long-term defence plan for the period 2005-2008 last 10 June, we related to the information we received from the Ministry of Defence and the Government that the structure we adopted had been adapted to an economic framework of 118 billion kroner over a four-year period. In practice, this is an economic level of defence to which a very large majority in the United Kingdom relates – in practice also the Progress Party, I have registered, even though they verbally say something else. SV is one piece below. But this is the level of the defence budget in the years to come. If the structure is still too large in relation to the agreed economic framework, the Government must bring the matter before the Storing and make adjustments and at all times ensure that the level of activity is not greater than the operating resources allow. The number of committees, all except the government parties, believes that the information in St.meld. No 29 is fragmented and a little bit general. We simply lack a comprehensive review of the governance structure and control in the defence sector. We miss a more thorough assessment of the whole case, and believe that the message does not give a good enough overall picture of the real situation. However, when the Workers' Party will not support a proposal from a minority that a sample should look at the economy from the outside, it is because the Stortinget has its own audit and control bodies, i.e. The National Audit Board and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, the Committee expected to examine the notification of St. No 29 until we got on the table both revised national budget and – not least – Document No. 3:8 of the National Audit Office on the accounts of Defence for 2004. As the rapporteur-in-chief, I have addressed the explanations and endorsements contained in the document from the Riksrevision. The reasons for the referral are also 44 answers from the Ministry of Defence to the questions put by the Committee, and these are attached to the vote. The proposal for a selection to look at the defence economy from the outside was otherwise voted down when we dealt with the budget of the Ministry of Defence last December, i.e. six months ago. I still want to add that St.meld. No 29 alone gives a simplified picture of the case complex, and the Council of State's understanding of the obligation to provide information to the Storting seems inadequate. This is serious, for example: because we cannot rule out that the problems related to the control and management of the defence continue in 2005. This is exactly why Document No. 3:8 from the National Audit Office and the presentations in St.prp. No 65, revised national budget, important. I would also like to refer to the attitude of the Control Committee to Document No. 3:8, to be dealt with later today. In the notice, the Ministry says that in previous years the army’s operating budget has been partly financed by the consumption of surplus stocks. In 2004, this possibility was eliminated by the full separation of the FLO from the defence sectors and the defence stocks into the FLO. On FLO's additional consumption, it is found, among other things, that: because the weapons had not paid their bills to the FLO. That is, that's probably also in other places, i.e. in the weapons. Furthermore, the FLO has not had system support and sufficient procedures for the planning, implementation and follow-up of so-called horizontal trade, including the follow-up of trade receivables. Note the concepts! In addition, the Department says: ‘Horizontal cross-chapter trade was introduced before an electronic system support for invoicing was established.’ This brings me to what is probably one of the main reasons for the lack of financial management and overview in defence: horizontal trade or internal invoicing – a hopeless system, which fortunately is on the waving front in many other parts of society, but not in defense. I fundamentally disagree with the structural thinking behind horizontal trade. And I'm very uncertain whether the "New Public Management" theory is a model that fits a command organization that the Defense necessarily has to be. The defence is broken down into a wide range of market areas where military department heads are occasionally customers, suppliers, tenderers, tenants and owners. Within the framework of the defence as a strict monopoly activity, notional markets have been created in which individual departments have to deal with each other in order to obtain the most favourable prices. A market is contingent on known competition, but since there is no competition, it must mean that prices are determined freely. Large resources and labour force are used to send internal invoices and pay them. The number of committees indicates that horizontal trade means unclear command lines. But the defense is an institution that needs to have clear command lines, this as a prerequisite in the event of a crisis. It will be difficult to distinguish which measures are included in operational activities, in the production of strength and in logistics. When Coast Guard Nord in Sortland has six different owners that each have their own isolated mission to perform, without ensuring the overall production of defence, there is a fragmentation that could lead to a lack of transparency, including an economic overview. In particular, the distinction between operational activities and logistics may create ambiguities, which could be reflected by budgeting and accounting. Operational tasks are hampered by different priorities, e.g. between two seemingly equal managers. It is important to examine whether this fragmentation is becoming the main issue in financial management in defence. That is why the majority of the Ministry is asking for horizontal trade to be evaluated. Yesterday, the Stortinget discussed the position of the Defence Committee on the river-wave disaster and proposals for structural measures to improve overall preparedness, military and civil. The apparatus for social security in Norway shall be prepared for both intentional and unintended events. Defence will often, as it was in the space of Christmas, be an important operational resource even in the event of accidental disasters that come unprepared. Crisis situations are inherently time-critical in terms of saving human lives and avoiding material damage. We therefore said yesterday in Stortinget that the overall organisational solutions should not prevent rapid and effective management when a crisis arises. But the fragmentation that is now taking place in the Defence in so-called horizontal trade can just make the command line unclear in time-critical situations. The same can be said about the use of consultants by the Defence Agency and the increasingly extensive posting of jobs to private individuals. These developments are highly questionable in terms of preparedness and safety. I am pleased with the signals that have come from the new head of defence about a severe reduction in the use of consultants. There have been too many people here who have used the defence budget as their private dairy cow. The Committee proposes an overall evaluation of the system of horizontal trade and calls for a significant reduction in the use of consultants. Later today, the Stortinget shall examine the decision of the Control Committee on the sale of the Lista Aviation Station by Defence Building. Here I will be very careful to say that, in the event of a division of labour between the committees, proposals from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre have been put in place by the Defence Committee to ask the Government to ensure that the State buys back the List of Aviation Stations in order to enable the Municipality of Farsund or the County Municipality to exercise its right of pre-emption at a reasonable price. I challenge from this pulpit the Progress Party to support the proposal subsidiaryly, so that we can resolve the Lista case once and for all. But that gives me an opportunity to say something more about Defence Building. The Committee has been struggling with this institution for the entire four-year period. Defence construction is organized as a government agency with its own government, and they were set up in the middle of this period, if I remember correctly, the project Change Property, which apparently was a project and nothing else, but now apparently operates as a separate company and sells property on behalf of the Defense. So established Change Property underused National Fortress. This is something that has gone completely by the political system. We were told this during an interpellation debate earlier this year. They operate outside as a separate operating organisation that negotiates with others. But is national fastening plants only under-use of a project in Vorvarsbyg, or what status do they have? Who finances National fastening plants, and who pays the salaries? At the 2001 sale target of 2 million. km2 of land and land are filled, I will ask the Council of State to ensure that the Change of Property is closed. They could not have any function anymore, and Defence Buildings should be considered as part of the administration or combined with State Building. I am not quite sure whether property management is part of the defence core areas or operational activities. In the present setting, SV, the Progress Party and the Center Party stand for two rematches. In June 2002, the Stortinget decided to establish an integrated strategic management between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Staff. The proposal was originally promoted by the Stoltenberg government. That is why, of course, the Labour Party cannot participate in proposal No. 4, which we see as an attempt to remove the political governance of Defence that integrated strategic management involves. Proposal No. 2, on the Gulf, also breaks with the Stortinge decision on phased breakdown of the computer system. We take note that the Riksrevision says: ‘First, when Golf LP 2 has been implemented with inter alia internal accounting solutions, it may be expected that the FMO has at its disposal an appropriate tool to meet the financial management and control requirements resulting from the Appropriations Regulation and the Financial Code.’;» But I want to ask the State Council to confirm that Phase 2, LP 2, is being submitted to the Stortinget for approval. Finally, it is important that the transition continues, so that we have a timely defence with robust mobile devices that can move quickly from one location to another, and can react quickly with relevant capabilities to deal with unpredictable events in a broad range, national and international. The national meeting of the Labour Party decided to follow-up the long-term plan during the period. In my opinion, that means two things: firstly, the necessary political grip for financial management, and secondly, contact with the employees' organisation in line with the statutory and contractual work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e251	In the Communication, the Government is taking a broad approach through its consumption in 2004, measures to strengthen the financial management of defence and the status of the project with new frigates. In my opinion, the message gives a reassuring impression of the challenges facing the defence. It is worth noting that the majority of the Committee points out that the Army and the FLO did not have an adequate overview of their own commitments, and that this did not result in an increase in consumption until the end of the financial year, while the other parts of the Defence Agency had a better overview of their commitments. I am also pleased that an overall committee recognises that immediate action has been taken to ensure that the defence has the necessary tools for budgetary control, accounting and financial management, and that some measures have a rapid impact, while others have to work over time. It is also very timely that the Committee collectively acknowledges the efforts made throughout the range of defence staff. It is good and necessary that critical light be placed on the activities of the defence. The question is whether there can be too much criticism and too little attention around all the positive things that happen with the Defense – not only rice, but also some praise, in other words. For my part, I would therefore like to use this post, which is probably the last occasion, to shed light on the defence of this process of mass destruction and on the background of the process of conversion, the successful implementation of the process of conversion and the premises that must apply in order for us to have a sustainable defence in the future as well. When I entered the Norwegian defence debate at Stortinget in 1993, the consequence of Stortinget's treatment of St.meld was. No 22 for 1997-1998 as a back cover for the then deplorable state of defence. In retrospect, for example. demonstrated that the calculations on which the referenced notification was based were 30 pst. too low, and that in addition there were some significant deviations from these far too low calculations and from the appropriations actually allocated to the defence. Together, these weaknesses led to a strong and continuous underfinancing of the Defence. At the same time, the changes that were actually implemented suffered from three weaknesses. Firstly, it would have proved to be significantly more difficult than assuming a reduction in the number of employees of the Defence Peace Organisation. The reduction was only one third of the 6,000 that was added to St.meld. No 16 for 1992-1993. Therefore, defence’s wage costs were higher in 2001 than in 1992. Secondly, the small reductions hit first and foremost the production of strength. The cuts in management, staff and support equipment were even smaller. Thirdly, the development of the Defence only reflected to a limited extent the changes in the Defence Task Spectrum, with the result that we had too few forces with short response time. All of these are not my claims, but are according to St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 led by the then Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal. The frequently used quote in the introductory part of the proposition is repeatable: ‘The defence is in a deep and sustained structural crisis. Two fundamental imbalances characterise the situation: the size of the defence is out of proportion to the resources it is allocated and the organisation of the defence is not suitable for the task of the future.» The concrete expression of this state was presented by General Mike Jackson, who, in connection with the Norwegian contribution to Kosovo, said: ‘What took you so long? Have you been walking?» This was the little paradisaic state of things when Minister of Defense Kristin Krohn Devold presented the world of reality to the Storting in St. pp. No 55 for 2001-2002, with the positive response of the broad majority of the new Defence Committee to the Government. The same broad majority has continued their plans for the period 2005-2008. I think that this brief review of our recent history shows that of course there had to be trouble when we got a government council, a defense chief and a big crowd that would not only mention but also do something about the imbalance and the deep and persistent structural crisis. I will in no way underestimate the great challenges that have followed this process, but I will also take this opportunity to refer to the enormous advances that have been made, so that today we have a defence that is far better than before able to meet the security challenges facing our country. The opposition to the changeover has come from several teams. The nostalgics believe that everything was so much better before, and refers to the number of ships in the fleet and the number of Brigades. The argument is often followed up by claims that we ignore the northern regions, despite the fact that the relative presence in the north has never been greater. In addition, the Coast Guard has been modernised and updated together with other units in the Defence and introduced historically high operating budgets. Nor does it make any sense when the FFI proves that the thirteen Brigades were pure paper brigades that, with the exception of three, were not equipped to face the threat for which they were intended, but for which, fortunately, they never met. But the thirteen Brigades were operational at one level: All positions, from top to bottom, were occupied. It was ‘only’ the equipment and training that was missing. Of course, the change had to meet the opposition of the organizations, who verbally supported the changes, just not so fast, not my camp, not my area. We meet the same position in the demand that the defence should be built against our own land and not lead, as it says, the global wars of NATO and the United States, unreservedly that the main bids of the Alliance are the principle of one for all, all for one. The idea that others will be allowed to defend us, yes thank you, but that we should defend others, no thanks, is not in line with the spirit of alliance, to say it carefully. A startling expression of this attitude was seen in a debate in the Newspaper yesterday, where the leader of one of our commanding organisations is the law prizes ‘successful small countries — especially in strategically important areas’, highlighting Sweden as an example of follow-up. Undoubtedly, Sweden, as a relatively small country, has had success with its neutrality, but Norway's attempts at the same thing ended with apprehension, which I thought we had taken over. May I remind Peter A. Moe that Norway has its independence thanks to NATO, but that Sweden is not a member of NATO. This is serious, both because at least something similar is indirectly suggested by the Secretary-General of the Norwegian Defence Association, and because Peter A. Moe is a member of a LO Association that will remove the current government and aim to introduce a red-green alternative, one of the possible government parties just declaring resistance to NATO, with the sole possible consequence. At the Right Defence Conference on 25 May this year, Director Narum of the FFI identified two key issues: after the Cold War, there has been clearly the highest defence budget with defence ministers from the Right. I remember that Minister of Defence Krohn Devold brought the Workers' Party to a raise of NOK 1 billion in relation to the last working party budget, as well as a binding framework for four years. However, Director Narum also showed that we have had essentially a cross-political and stable defence settlement, based on a fundamental security agreement. The tracks frighten when we look to previous defence budgets, and we see that the Workers' Party now, within the blessings claimed by a majority government, shall make defence settlements not with the Right, but with the Center Party, which does not want changes, and SV, who wants to get out of NATO and will cut the defence budget by $4.5 billion a year. We are already seeing trends in a detailed management of the defence that not only distorts the balance between state powers, but also hampers the defence's need to finance the transition, as the Stortinget has ordered the Government. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister of Defense for leading the defence through a successful transition process, and for her willingness to acknowledge, but at the same time do something about the difficulties and challenges encountered in the process. The aim has been to implement the largest public sector conversion ever, without any faults. It's hardly possible in the real world. But in my opinion, the danger of not implementing the conversion would be greater and the consequences would be far more serious. Finally, I would like to give a brief explanation of vote, and it is avoided. The government parties are going to vote against the minority proposals. We're going to vote for the Roman number decisions II and III. But we're going to vote against Roman Numeral Decision I, and that's because it's an unnecessary proposal. In this context, we refer to our remarks in the vote and to the fact that the Minister of Defence and the Head of Defence, in consultation with the Committee, expressed the view that the practice of horizontal trade is being reviewed, with a view to further improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e286	The over-exploitation in 2004 of over DKK 1 billion came as a big surprise. The most alarming thing was that the Minister of Defense and the Chief of Defense were the most surprising. The size had been informed in December that the budget would be balanced. The defence activities and investments, known as the Stortinget, had been subject to agreed frameworks and conditions. So that's how it turned out that it wasn't. So you can rightly ask yourself how this could happen. Conclusions were quickly drawn: over-consumption in the Army and lack of control in the Defence Logistics Organisation. The head of defense made his position available, as any leader would have done, in the circumstances that have arisen. Now it didn't happen that the head of defense stopped, but instead two more people were kicked into the system, the general inspector of the Army and the head of the FLO. This was done to show the power of action, but the one who actually showed the power of action was the general inspector of the Army. He set up an independent review committee to find out what had gone wrong in the Army. His goal was to prevent new unfortunate situations and point out weaknesses in the system. What he achieved with this was to get negative feedback from the Swedish Defence Management that the review report was not professional and quality enough. This was, in the opinion of the Progress Party, regrettable, for just such an initiative should have been taken by the ministry itself. But now we know at Stortinget that there have been many changes in the Ministry of Defence in recent years, and that they themselves have received a significant apparatus to maintain control of the Defence Military Organization. In connection with the integration into the Ministry of Defence, changes were described in the Ministry and its tasks and responsibilities. It was established by the Ministry: ‘The strategic functions for which the head of defence has been responsible have now been grouped in one place in the department. The strategic management of the defence is about how to develop the defence over time to best manage its tasks in the long term and how to use the defence at all times in order to best manage today’s tasks.’ Further: ‘The Ministry is responsible for the overall management and control of the activities of its establishments.’;» In view of the allegations made to the former head of the Defence Logistics Organisation and the former general inspector of the Army, it is important to bear in mind that it is the department responsible for all activities in the Defence. This is also underlined by the Ministry itself in a number of contexts. The Ministerial Councils are the Ministry's highest permanent official and have as their primary task as adviser to the Minister of Defence and to relieve the Council of State in the management and coordination of the ministry's work. The Chief of Defence now has a double-hatred role, both as top professional military adviser in the Department and as head of the Military Organisation of the Defence. The fact that the head of defence is now integrated into the department does not alter the function of the Council of Ministers. In view of this and of the above allegations against the former head of the FLO and former army inspector general, it is important to focus on the responsibilities of the organisation. Some of the Ministry's core tasks are: plan, budgeting and implementation in the medium and short term overall management of the activities of the departments of the budget management exercise policy, planning and governance at strategic level strategic management and management of the ICT area development organisation internal audit and controller function; In the context of the problem of who had an overview of what was involved in the economy of Defence, it is interesting to note here: ‘The unit of controller shall contribute to the achievement of its objectives by providing management with support in the Ministry of Defence’s governance and control of the subject-matter. Furthermore, it is an overall task to assess whether the internal control of the defence is appropriate, adequate, effective and whether it functions as intended.» As if this were not enough to place responsibility for over-consumption at the department: ‘The Economic and Governance Department is primarily responsible for the planning and development of the defence activities, organisation and structure within each long-term period. Furthermore, the department shall operate the overall management and control of its activities in its establishments. This includes, inter alia, responsibilities for concreteising plans and budgets at the level of action for the entire long term, preparing proposals for the budget profile, cost analyses for the shorter and longer term perspective, modernisation and efficiency measures within each planning period, drawing up annual budgets and related implementation documents, managing board of defence investment activities from acquisition decisions taken, and overall governance responsibilities for material and EBA management.’;» As the Progress Party sees it, all of this shows that it is the responsibility of the Department to ensure that the operations of the Defence Agency are balanced. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence to ensure that the Ministry of Defence carries out its controller tasks. The progress party would like to see the economic situation of the defence being quite different from what it is today. What is now important is that the defence is given clear and long-term tasks and premises, so that we avoid the kind of economic situation we are up against. The Party considers that there is reason to fear that the explanations given in the notification do not give the correct picture of the actual situation of the Defence. In a letter from the parliamentary leaders of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Central Party, the Left and the SV to the Prime Minister, dated 30 April this year, it is asked when the Government will present a case to the Grand Government on how the Government will recover overall governance of the economy in the Defence. The Progress Party believes that the response of the Prime Minister on 4 May this year is not satisfactory in any way. And in our opinion, neither the message nor the revised national budget provides a coherent and comprehensive review of the control and governance of the economy in the Defence that Stortinget has asked for. We note, and find it strange, that the Ministry does not pay particular attention to the problems related to the Gulf project, which is a contributing cause of the increase in consumption in 2004. I would like to stress here that the Progress Party was opposed to the entire project from the start, and we pointed out at the time that there were already accounting systems in the Defence Agency that could be built on for good reason. In our opinion, the Golf programme is now out of economic control, and we note the ministry's limited description of the status of experience with Golf LP 1. We therefore believe that such a situation is now, the Stortinget needs to be well informed about all the phases of the Gulf Programme planned and an overview of all the costs associated with the programme. The question of the contested sale and, where appropriate, the repurchase of the list of airstations has been well raised in this case. Now that we're going into the problem, the starting point, in the opinion of the Advance Party, must be to find a sensible purpose for the repurchase. It can be seen that so far there has been no success in finding private sensible purposes in the field of business start-ups and jobs. At the end of the 1990s, a relatively large asylum reception was run at the location of the station, which is claimed to be perfect for such a purpose. When there is now also a need for closed reception for asylum seekers who have received final rejection of their application, but which the Government does not want to send out, and asylum seekers who through their behaviour should be placed on closed reception, the List Aviation Station should be perfect for such a purpose. It may also be economically advantageous to use a relatively large-capacity air station to release expensive intermediate transport via another aerodrome. The Progress Party therefore supports its own proposal in the vote. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 2, 3 and 4, by the Party of Advances, SV and the Centre, and proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e362	The representative Per Ove Wideth has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e365	It is undoubtedly a pleasant description by the representative Hernæs. But it seems to me that the understanding of what is reality is something different here in the hall. So the defense had an unhindered additional consumption of $1,156 million. in 2004, which was discovered in January 2005, long after all re-disposals within the budget had expired. This is highly critical, believes a majority in the Committee consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV. Furthermore, the same parties believe that the big message we are dealing with today is characterised by simple explanations and an apparent lack of willingness to seek the underlying reasons for the additional consumption. Then the same majority determines that it is critical that the Council of State did not intervene and change the defence's attitude to the framework and the use of money at an earlier stage. The Minister of Defence is responsible to Stortinget for what is happening in the Defence. In this case, the Minister of Defence has run from this responsibility and left it to others. Those who have had to take the consequences of the lack of responsibility of the Minister of Defence are the general inspector of Army Lars J. Sölvberg and the managing director of FLO Erik Hernes. They had to take responsibility — on the basis of preliminary figures, before the Chief of Defence had presented their annual report, because they were Chapter owners who needed too much money — under the principle that responsibility had to be asserted. The Minister of Defence, who has the top responsibility for his organization, pushed the responsibility down to two Chapter owners who needed too much money. She's responsible, but she uses it to blame others. This is essential, not least because it is a majority of the Committee that considers the explanations of the additional consumption used in the notification to be too simple. The statements made by the Ministry of Defence are too simple. It also looks like the setting. The fact that there was a very high level of added consumption is a testimony to a lack of control over the financial management of the Defence and the Defence Military Organisation. It is unclear whether, in fact, there was a better control elsewhere in the Defence Military Organisation, although these had largely completed the radical reorganisations in 2004. This is not about the Army and the Defence Logistics Organisation spending too much money – it all understands by looking at the figures – but whether they had the opportunity to know about it before it was too late, about the reorganisation and the systems chosen during the whole conversion process made it possible for everyone to have the necessary overview. Yes, the Ministry of Defence believes it was possible to have an overview, even if the technical systems did not work. As stated in the Communication, it was linked to horizontal trade: ‘These were, however, known challenges which would have been better addressed, even without this system support, by manual procedures.’ Right, you could solve this through manual procedures. But who would solve this in the Army and in the FLO? Where were those people? They weren't there anymore. They were gone for the Army – replaced by a heavy burden of international operations in Afghanistan, Iraq and Kosovo, and in addition, among others. the training of the Telemark battalion to the NATO Response Force for the first six months of this year. As stated in the message: ‘The army departments have also had a significantly higher level of activity than the budget and allocation provided for.’;» Yes, it's clear, but who set the high level of activity? Was it the Army itself? No, it was the bulk of the population through the budget that was presented to us, as far as I remember, by the Ministry of Defence. So it was the department that provided the budget, and the Storting decided, and it broke. That's the thing. Why? For years SV has claimed and asked questions that the international operations cost us significantly more than what is reflected in the chapter. 1792, which only includes the additional costs incurred when out of the country. According to the figures in the Chief of Defense's Annual Report, the Chief of Defense believes that the additional consumption in the Army is 333 million. kr. In this message, the number is 425 million. kr. What's right? In the hearing, I realized that the Council of State felt that the head of defence's figures were correct. The army lost the battle for these 92 million. kr, which should have been carried as exceedances on the cap. 1792, which is the Chief of Defense's chapter. It is not clear whether it is such that these costs should have actually been included in that chapter. We see what has happened, and understand that it is important for the Government that the costs of international operations do not exceed what is budgeted, but that as much as possible now is placed under the chapters of the Army and the FLO. At least it could look like this. For me, it is essential that all costs of international operations and all other costs are placed where they belong, just to make the costs visible where they belong. The main problem in 2004 had to be that one had opted for a choice of technical systems that were not complete. In a Golf LP 1 that only had to solve specific functions, it was chosen to use organisational and root data that were outside the system. This led, among other things, to: to place wages on incorrect chapters, etc., and much indicates that the missing HR dimension made it impossible to establish the necessary traceability. The SAP economic and accounting system was also expected to generate significant rationalisation gains immediately. 39 economic and accounting employees in the Army were overwhelming when the system was implemented. There's a reason to ask if it wasn't that you had too much expectations than what it was actually possible to meet. In that case, there's no news. This has been asked by the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre for a long time, not least the need for a comprehensive review of the now phased-in Program Golf, with an overview of the objectives to be achieved, the gain it will bring, and the price tag. It is still not possible to have a comprehensive review today, in 2005, with the problems that the Gulf has caused. Instead, the Government proposes to implement a striped version for delivery project 2. The Ministry says that it will reduce the risk in the implementation of the project. What is the real risk of breaking up the Golf Programme in small pieces, when you are planning to implement the entire programme, as the Committee leader Marit Nybakk now points out? Is it not appropriate for the Storting to understand the whole? What you're reducing the risk of now, with the procedure that's been chosen, is that a large number finally says stop, this is going to be too expensive. As this program evolves, the Storting does not have full transparency and price transparency. The Ministry must take full responsibility itself – the whole responsibility. The comparative analysis of the Danish and Norwegian defences reveals the sum of the Programme Golf that the Riksrevision has come up with. I guess when these numbers are used in this document, this is a recognition of this number. That's $2 billion. This analysis also shows that the Danish defence has chosen a different solution. It costs a little over half, despite the fact that Norway uses the same supplier, i.e. IBM. Horizontal trade is another phenomenon of which there is a lot in Defence. SV has never been particularly enthusiastic about this way of making costs visible, by introducing a market. I am pleased that there is now a majority proposal to carry out a full evaluation of horizontal trade. There is no doubt that the poor price lists of the services and late billing have led to significant problems both for the FLO and for the Army, and that there is no longer full agreement between the organisation and the delivery capacity of the FLO. and the demand and willingness to pay of the so-called clients in the Military Organisation of the Defence, and especially in a year when orders against the FLO have to be significantly reduced due to the poorer economy of the military departments after what has happened in 2004. SV has submitted a number of proposals in this setting in collaboration with the Progress Party and the Centre Party. They are concerned with getting an overall overview of the Programme Golf in terms of both magnitude and estimated costs. It is a matter of setting up a sample that can review all aspects of organisation and governance in the defence sector, and it is a matter of asking the Government to promote a case in which it goes through how political and military management coordination is to be organised in the future, also in the light of the need for improved business management, which it naturally looks as if there is a need for. These are all proposals that go beyond what this communication does to the underlying conditions that resulted in the defence not being approved in 2003 and thus for last year a crack of over DKK 1 billion was discovered after the end of the financial year. This is not a rematch on integrated strategic management. It's an attempt to help the defense recover economic control. The proposed measures in the notification are certainly necessary and appropriate. The question of whether they will provide the necessary governance and control of the defence economy is different. Then it would be good to end by recalling that, in the context of the examination of the 2003 accounts by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the Grand Duchy decided to ask for a case on how the Government will recover the overall governance of the defence economy. We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e416	St.meld. No 29 for 2004-2005, which we are now debating, is about two aspects: the reasons for the additional consumption in the defence sector in 2004 measures to prevent its recurrence in the future; The National Auditorate states in Document No. 3:8 for 2004-2005 that they consider the consumption to be around $1.15 billion as critical. The Christian People's Party agrees with this. It can't be accepted. The notification shall provide a detailed description of the reasons for the exceedances. This is a description consistent with the reasons given by the Defence Manager in his annual report. In fact, the reasons set out in the notification are based on the reasons given in the defence manager’s annual report. The Defence Manager has done a thorough job of finding the actual and real causes of the additional consumption. All parts of the Defence Military Organisation have recorded the report. So the Department has concluded that the Chief of Defense's cause and effect is correct and based on this in the paper. Consensus between the department and the department on the causes helps to underpin the conclusions and provides a good starting point for the ongoing implementation of measures. The notification points out that all significant additional consumption has taken place within the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Army. Inadequate financial management and control are the main causes of increased consumption. The National Audit Service notes that the individual defence unit has a separate responsibility to keep track of the unit's overall obligations. The Christian People's Party agrees that it must be so. There may not have been a good enough follow-up of this in the Army and in the FLO. The Christian People's Party has also taken note of the National Audit Office's statement that a good governance dialogue has been established between the Ministry and the Defence Military Organisation. When it comes to the question of whether the Council of State should have intervened and prevented additional consumption, the Christian People's Party is not in doubt about its support to the Council of State. Defence reported to the ministry so late as December 19, 2004 that they would balance overall. We cannot therefore see that the Department or the Council of State had the opportunity to intervene and stop the consumption. It is important to note, however, that the other parts of the defence had a better overview of their own commitments and that they adjusted their own activities so as to avoid any additional consumption. It is also important that we from the Storting express recognition and note the enormous effort being made in the Defence to correct the increase in consumption, and to prevent this from repeating itself. I am therefore pleased that the Committee in the nomination gives recognition to the members of staff of the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Staff and the other administration of the defence for the efforts they have made in the last six months to gain complete control of the economy and a changed culture throughout the organisation. On 14 January 2005, the Army concluded an agreement with a Communications Agency to assist in the review of financial management. What the selection has actually contributed, however, I am uncertain about. It will include, among others: pointed to a lack of awareness of the economy and budgets. However, the reduction in sample size is not entirely unproblematic. According to Document No. 3:8 the Riksrevision has revealed that the law on public acquisitions was not followed when the contracts were concluded. Acquisitions are also insufficiently documented. According to the Riksrevisionen, the contracts are also not returned in signed condition. The agreements also do not indicate the financial obligation of the Defence. According to the Defence Staff, the total obligation for the Defence will amount to approximately 3.5 million. kr. In order to ensure that defence remains within its budgetary framework in the future, a number of better financial management measures need to be implemented. The measures must ensure that the defence has the necessary tools for budgetary control, accounting and financial management. There are already some immediate measures in place, other immediate measures are imminent and some measures are more long-term. Some measures have a rapid impact, while others have to work over time before the desired results are achieved. The most important measures to be taken are measures that focus on cost control and empowerment. The importance of adequate economic and administrative skills cannot be stressed enough, and it is important that this is emphasised, including in the training system for all the war schools. An action package for the enhancement of competences has been launched within the Military Organisation of the Defence. The aim is an increased understanding of the systems to provide a better overview of commitments and the forecast picture. The action package consists of specially adapted courses and collections for the operations controls and the head of the defence holdings. It shall focus in particular on responsibilities, operational control and understanding of the system. During the school year, the Defence Staff School II shall provide a four-week course of administrative and financial management and, when a new master's degree course is set up, a deepening business management model will be offered. In addition to all these good measures, we believe that the recruitment of civil personnel with training and experience in administration, management and economics should be considered. When it comes to the sale of the list, I really don't want to say that much about it. As we all know, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has its own case on this which is to be debated in this Chamber at a later stage. The list does not belong in any way to the matter we are now debating. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party has brought the Lista sale into the defence committee's treatment of St.meld. No 29 on the additional consumption of the defence budget in 2004. The Christian People's Party naturally wonders about this. The question also concerns the various proposals available for reselling the sale. The National Audit Service questions the sale and criticises parts of the procedure around the sale. However, it does not give any reason whatsoever to exercise such fundamental rights and rights as private ownership in any legal society. There are many problematic elements of the process that the Workers' Party has initiated here and that the Advance Party has followed up. Let me mention someone: Any decision to request the Government to ensure that the List Aviation Station is returned to the State may incur significant costs, without any budgetary resources being allocated to it. Such a request by Stortinget, without any cost restrictions, could of course affect any quote offered by the current owner. Lista Airport AS continues to have pre-emptive rights to important parts of the airport after entering into a lease agreement and receiving an option on the property. This happened in 1996 and was approved by the Ministry of Defence under the leadership of the then Minister of Defence, Jørgen Kosmo. This pre-emptive right means that in any case the property may end up in private ownership. Moreover, if the State still owned Lista air station, it is not certain that the municipality of Farsund would choose to exercise the right of pre-emption of the property in accordance with the rules now in force. This pre-purchase right applies only to purchases at tariff level. In the view of the Christian People's Party, therefore, there is a significant risk, if it is possible to bring the property back to the State, so that the State may be in possession of the property and its associated costs, because it appears that the municipality will not take over the property under the terms of the Ministry of Defence's authority to accept it. It should be completely unnecessary and unnecessary to say this, but unfortunately it is not. There is no basis for proposing to ask ‘The Government shall ensure that the list of aircraft stations is returned to the State in order to allow the public to exercise its right of pre-emption’. There are no rational reasons for that. In addition, it is highly likely that such a decision may not necessarily be implemented in practice, as the sale has been completed and the property is now owned by Lista Flypark AS. One thing is private ownership, another thing is the economic consequences that an already hard-pressed defense must be imposed. Moreover, it is true that the pre-emption rights of municipalities to properties were introduced after that sale was carried out and that the Riksrevision does not express itself more strongly than that it is therefore possible to ask ‘questions as to whether cooperation with the municipality of Farsund has been ensured as provided for by the Stortinget’. My conclusion is that I am very surprised that emerging politicians can actually consider making such decisions as are proposed here. Finally, I am pleased that the feedback I get from the Defense suggests that things are still going forward, and that financial management is getting better and better. This is what the Defense will do in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e467	There's not too much joy in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e470	In 2004, the defense had an unhindered additional consumption of NOK 1.1 billion. That is the last part of a chain of financial irregularities and over-consumption in the Norwegian defence. An additional consumption, as we now experience for 2004, is, as the rapporteur said, ‘highly critical’. It is no less critical when we know that the defence accounts for the previous three years show major shortcomings and that the 2003 accounts were not approved. Politically, this means nothing less than that the Government, and in particular the Right Party, have simply not been able to govern the defence economy throughout the four-year period this government has now been in the government offices. The defence issues we've experienced in the last few years raise two important questions. One is, has the Defence the necessary respect for the financial framework to which they are subject? The second question is, does the government have sufficient control over the defence economy? The center party unfortunately believes that the answer to both questions has to be no. St.meld. No 29 shows a greater willingness than before to address the problems. I guess that actually shows you first and foremost how little will it's been in the past. But also in connection with St.meld. No 29 will be some of the answers for simple, because neither St.meld. No 29 is willing to discuss the governance problems in the Defense in relation to the extensive migration process in which the Defence is involved. In the opinion of the Centre Party, there is reason to ask whether the requirements of the conversion, the manner in which it is carried out and whether the pace of the conversion process itself has contributed to the lack of control and an overview of the economy. The use of consultants beyond any reasonable context and the problems of the FLO with new accounting systems may indicate this. Nevertheless, the will of the majority in Stortinget to step in and correct errors in the migration process, yes, at all to assess aspects of the migration process, is very small. I must say that in this connection I am also very surprised at the accident of the Workers' Party. Abrasion and conversion stiffness are not assessed. The consequences of simultaneous manning and introduction of new systems are not assessed. The time aspect of the conversion process is not considered at all. Nor will it be assessed whether jobs have been removed before the tasks have disappeared. The centre party shares the considerations that have emerged around the system of horizontal interaction. We agree that there is a system that works artificially within the Defence and that should be reviewed. It seems to create ambiguity. It creates artificial market areas, and it obviously creates significant extra work for defence employees. The Centre Party also believes that whatever it considers to be the Gulf Programme, it is appropriate to provide the Stortinget with a full overview of this programme, of all the phases envisaged and of the total costs of its implementation. In particular, it will be important when the Government of Great Britain actually states that, in order to satisfy the other parts of the economic system, it is critical that the next stages of the Programme Golf are implemented. Yes, but then the Storting has no choice. And then it will be extremely difficult to say to Stortinget that here you will be allowed to approve each stage. In reality, there will be no maritime possibility of stopping until it is finally completed. The central party also believes that the new integrated management of the defence should be reviewed with a critical look. We believe that a separate external sample needs to review management, organisation and governance in the defence sector, just as we meant last autumn, when we promoted the same proposal. The centre party is very surprised that one in the communication goes very far in denying the responsibility of the military and political top management of the defence, by transferring so much of the responsibility to the so-called chapter owners. It is also a whole new word – Parliamentary. We find it strange that the department almost suggests that it is the chapter owners who should have understood that the centrally decided systems, for example. in the case of wages and salaries and in the case of accounts, were not really entirely reliable. It is a remarkable explanation of the problems of the highest political and military leadership. That has been said earlier, but unfortunately it must be repeated here today: the way in which this government has dealt with defence policy in the last four years does not provide confidence. It's serious for the government, but unfortunately it's mainly serious for a Norwegian defense, which is totally dependent on confidence out in the population and in the elected bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e491	The first Wednesday will lay the foundation for the new management building on Akershu’s fastening. This is built into physical evidence of one of the decisions of this magnification period, integrated strategic management between the Defense Officers and the Department of Defence staff. This is not often the result of a sensible decision that you have taken. The background for integrated strategic management is to be found in the Innst. S. No 232 for 2001-2002, cf. St. pp. No 55 for 2001-2002, and confirms the changes to the Defence, and is also a signal of the importance of Akershu’s fastening. I can add here that there are not many countries in NATO that still have a shared management. I'm not sure how many there are, but at least Turkey is the one, and I'm a little uncertain about whether Denmark has partly shared management, but there are very few countries. For new NATO members, they are required to have integrated civil-military management. Why is that? It's to have democratic control of military power. Then I am surprised that the SV and the Central Party are those who, together with the Progress Party, are behind a proposal not to have democratic control over military power. The tendency to rematch at this point is very unfortunate, and will put us back in time for several years if the proposal is adopted. The decision on integrated strategic management was a historic decision because it was the first time there was a defence policy settlement between the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The reason for the agreement was that the civil majority of the Stortinge decided to adopt a structure for which there was no money. As reason sank over these two parties, the agreement also came about a structure and economics in place. St.meld. No 29 is a strange message. The notification mentions an additional consumption of more than NOK 1.1 billion in 2004, which was discovered in January 2005. The message tells what has happened and what action has been taken to prevent similar events from happening again. It's strange, and the events are highly critical. More errors have obviously been made, but when the Centre Party, SV and the Advance Party intend to reduce a sample to review the conversion process and the financial management of the Defence Party, this seems completely unnecessary. The size has been provided with all relevant information through its own control body, the Riksrevision, and the Storting Control Committee. We cannot therefore understand why this should be examined further. That the process of conversion is demanding and difficult, I understand that. The majority has adopted a change of defence from an invasion defence to an international operational defence. In addition, the National Audit Office has ordered the Defence to introduce a new accounting system at the same time as the Gulf project is phased in. It's demanding. I also understand our new head of defense, Sverre Dien, when he was asked in Dagbladet on 27 April how difficult the job was, and he answers: «Perhaps it was harder than I thought when I agreed. We had bigger financial problems than I thought." Here I just want to add briefly that General Dienn was, even before he was appointed Chief of Defense, placed in a relatively central position in the Ministry of Defence. The attitude of the Defence Committee today shows that there is a distinction in Norwegian defence policy. The challenge is that not everyone has taken on the fact that the world has moved on. The defense is just a tool, but as it says, real tools are half the job. In this context, it is not the tasks which have to adapt to the device of the Norwegian defence, but that means that the defence has to change according to the tasks to be resolved. The reforms in Defence, the transition from a stationary invasion defence to a mobile response defense, must go further. The process has reached a point by 'no return'. Should the defense regain credibility and appear as a relevant tool, there is only one thing to do, and that is to keep a rough course until the conversion is completed. The change in the defence is on the right track, but the change is no excuse for the financial miser that was in 2004. In the nomination, the Defence Committee will enter the list of airstations, which a majority in the Committee would like to buy back. The sale of the Lista Air Station is a tragedy – or perhaps a comedy – that the Defence Committee is fortunately not allowed to deal with. The National Audit Office's investigation of the sale of Lista airstation shows that Defence Buildings cannot provide safe indications that the property was sold at market price, as the Authority of Storting assumes. The National Audit Board also points out in Document No. 3:7 for 2004-2005, the National Audit Office’s investigation into the sale of Lista airstation, that the sale of the airstation in September 2002 provided a net outlay of 10,9 million for the State. kr. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party refer to the treatment in the Stortingen Control Committee and do not take an independent position on what has happened in this specific sale or on the severity of the relationship. However, the members of the three batches find that Lista airstation has been sold out by the State’s ownership and that the Riksrevision believes the sale was made on a faulty basis. More than three batches are likely to agree that the situation is unfortunate, but the big question is how to solve the situation. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre consider that the sale of the Lista Aviation Station is correct and that the State must take the consequences of the failure of the sale process in the opinion of the National Audit Office. Therefore, the proposal for repurchase is promoted by these three lots. Then time will show what the Progress Party decides for. The serious thing in this case is, of course, the economic surplus. But all the negative reports of the Defense weaken the people's confidence in the Defense, and the employees have a stressful everyday life. I therefore hope that Stortinget will not get any more such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e534	The changes in the defence have been, are and will continue to be extensive. The store has ordered the defense to go through very large changes. It is demanding for those who control, but not least for those who are in the organisation and are required to implement the transitions in practice. The process is on track and the targets are achieved. There is also broad support in the Storting for the migration targets set. I believe this is an important hindrance to bring with it in view of the matters that are being dealt with here today. I also record from the point of view of this matter that a broad majority of the defence committee points out that there has been a positive development in many of the areas that the Riksrevision believes have been critical. This is a happy development that we're going to take with us. After one period of the Storting I have learned at least one thing, and that is that one should choose with care whom one should be provoked by. So far, different representatives from the Central Party have not been among those I've been raising so much of, but when I hear the representative Arnstad speaking here about the changes going too fast, that there has been a shortage of people, etc., there is reason to remember that the Central Party has actually proposed and voted in the Stortinget for a reduction in the management structure of the Defence Agency in addition to the regime of the Government, equivalent to at least 200 million. kr. Then I think it is both eye-catching and eager to perform a post of the sort that the representative Arnstad just performed here from the pulpit. In the position of the Defence Committee there is a minority proposal that the Lista air station should be bought back and resold to the municipality. A lot could have been said about that matter, and we will get closer to that. Time does not allow to drag the whole reasoning here and now. I would also like to remind you that there will be a separate case later today about the Riksrevision's investigation into this sale. With regard to the subject-matter of this case, namely the exceedances in relation to the 2004 budget, it is also a subject that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has previously dealt with in its examination of the 2003 financial statements. Then the exceedances of the 2004 budget became a central issue, although it did not belong in that case. These exceedances naturally had personnel implications — yes, they should be lacking — for those responsible for the miser, namely the Inspector General of the Army and the Director of the Defence Logistics Organisation. In the hearing of the Control Committee, a very imaginative fairy tale was presented by the representative Hagen, who claimed that the general inspector of the Army was appointed as an innocent scapegoat. Today we have heard this story repeated by the representatives Per Ove Width and Kjetil Bjørklund. It's not going to be more accurate for that reason. But now that we finally have the Riksrevision report on the table, it might be good to note that Hagen's joke and Bjørklund's theory here does not get any support at all. The National Audit Board mentions the additional consumption as critical and says that it has arisen despite the fact that a good governance dialogue had been established between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Military Organisation. The National Audit Office further notes on the responsibility for additional consumption that: «In any case, the entities of the FMO have a separate responsibility to have an overview of the total liabilities of the unit». There is therefore no basis for repeating self-produced hypotheses about causality and accusations that are only imaginative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e552	In the case of St.meld. No 29 for 2004-2005, on the additional consumption of the defence budget in 2004, it could probably be used for many days to discuss the relatively high level of over-consumption and why this could happen. Of course, you can also discuss whether the statement and the information we have received are comprehensive enough. Unfortunately, these exceedances are not the only one of the losses, let's call it that, from the defense side. There have been a number of unfortunate decisions in the last four years. This may include, inter alia: It mentions the scrapping of almost unused belt wagons, which teams, associations and individuals would like to take over, a lot of contracted consultant assistance, the sale of defence property without proper redress, adding boats to berths, old transport aircraft that cannot be used in full, economic roots, etc. That is why it is very regrettable that we are once again receiving an annual result with a great deal of over-consumption. All of this, but especially this matter, reduces the confidence of the defence in the population and in the decision-making organisations. This is very bad, and harmful to the Defense, who in today's situation rather needs good things that increase people's willingness to defend. The same thing is true of all the 1000 employees in the Defence Department who are more or less struggling with today's situation. We may need a reorganization, but it's gone too fast, and then it can happen that not everything is as well done and thoughtful as the control of the economy is not as good. Nevertheless, this is not a good enough excuse for such uncontrolled over-use. It is also possible to question whether the large participation of defence in both the Balkans, the Middle East and Central Asia has only benefited us and the Defence. It has tied up large crews and command forces as well as a lot of equipment, etc. This, together with the previously mentioned reorganisation, seems especially to the Army to have been a decisive factor in this part of the Over-Consumption of Defence. Therefore, the Progress Party would rather give credit to the former GIH, which was only reasonable within the Defence Management to take immediate concrete initiatives to investigate its own activities and dispositions to find reasons for this unexpected additional consumption, precisely to correct errors and avoid repetition. Unfortunately, this has neither given honor nor recognition by many others in particular. The progressing party has also noted that the department has also not included wear and tear in the FLO as a possible cause of their over-consumption. Therefore, the Progress Party was not particularly impressed by the fact that two people, one in the Army and one in the FLO, were fairly quickly relocated into the system and in some way turned into scapegoats for the extra consumption. So simple is not this case. The party of progress is amazed that it was not reacted to the fact that the level of activity in the Army was higher than that adapted to the budgetary framework. It is a central responsibility of each chapter owner. The overall responsibility, as the Progress Party sees it, must belong to the Ministry of Defence in this context. This means that all and all responsibility must lie with the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. There is no doubt either that the Storting should be informed of the situation earlier when something so radical happens, or when conditions will affect the adopted budget. Similarly, the Progress Party believes that assigning the former head of the FLO to responsibility for the economic over-exploitation alone is equally bad. This is due to the Department of Defence's lack of organisation for a good enough system of horizontal trade. It has also been shown that horizontal trade means unclear command lines, and there are some who absolutely do not need it, it is the defence, among other things. in order to deal with a crisis situation. It must be clear what is under measures such as operational activities, power generation and logistics. Otherwise, the Progress Party is also concerned with the problem of the Gulf project and assessment of the exceedances. The progressing party notices that the department does not attach enough weight to this, which we are looking at with amazement. But the last word is probably not said in this case, and we look with excitement at what will result. It is strange that the Ministry almost suggests that the chapter owners themselves should understand that the centrally decided wage and accounting system imposed and imposed was not sufficiently reliable and therefore should have guarded themselves through manual accounting in addition, while at the same time being required to contribute to the annual removal of economic employees. This should explain much of the situation in which the defense has come into being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e571	In January 2005, it became clear that the defence in 2004 had a significant increase in its budget. I announced that the Government would file a case for Stortinget with an assessment of the reasons for the additional consumption and measures to avoid similar situations later on. The case is based on the defence manager's annual report and the reasons the defense itself points to. Additional consumption has mainly taken place within the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Army. There has been a lack of budgetary control in several areas. The staff database for own employees has not been correct, which has resulted in misposting of wages and salaries. The level of activity has been higher than the allocation of budgetary resources until then, there has been a lack of transparency and control in the Army, because too many people have had a mandate to order, order and certificate. No ongoing clearances were made regarding orders made by the Army at the FLO, were made under the existing framework agreement for such purchases, or whether the purchases resulted in additional bills. In these two departments, there has been a lack of overview of commitments entered into, orders and own consumption, as well as a lack of focus on financial management and the follow-up of funds allocated against liabilities and forecasts. These conditions led to increased consumption and were not revealed until 2005, after the end of the financial year. The government takes a serious view of the unhindered additional consumption of the defence budget in 2004. As Minister of Defence, I am responsible for ensuring that the appropriations adopted by the Stortinget are not exceeded by subordinate agencies. It has therefore been important for the Government to identify the real causes of the additional consumption, so that proper and necessary action can be taken to avoid repetition. In order to ensure that the defence activities are carried out in the future within adopted budgetary frameworks and under allocated appropriations, while at the same time achieving the required conversion objectives, a number of measures have been taken. These measures aim to improve the transparency and control of their obligations at all stages of the defence and to provide credible forecasts for their activities. Measures to improve financial management in Defence include, inter alia: review and correction of errors in personnel and organisational data, reduction of the number of persons authorised to place orders, instructions and attestations, introduction of a new data system for horizontal trade and renegotiation of the 2005 supply agreements, cost control through reduction of administrative costs, including consultancy and travel costs, and more frequent and closer governance dialogue between the department and the underlying department. New guidelines are in place to strengthen the use of external consultants and measures to enhance the competence of the organisation in administration and financial management as well. Activity reduction measures have also been implemented, where necessary, to ensure that the activities of each department take place within adopted budgetary frameworks. I have noticed that a unanimous committee acknowledges the staff of the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Staff and the other administration of the defence for the efforts now being made to control the economy. This is important, because they have really made an effort. After the exceedance was revealed in January 2005, there has been a night and day stand from both the Defence Department itself and the Ministry of Defence staff. It is therefore gratifying that the Riksrevision has positive opinions on key areas of marked improvement. The conversion carried out by the Defence Financial Management includes the introduction of a new accounting system that provides a much better basis for good financial management than the previous accounting systems provided. The Riksrevision has pointed that out. However, as the Committee has noted, some measures will have a rapid effect, while others will have to work over time before the desired outcome is achieved. In this case, two different proposals have been put forward, both involving the recovery of Lista Airport by the State. The price that the owner may charge for the property has not been clarified. Neither will the conditions required by the municipality to receive the property. This could therefore lead to a significant and unpredictable cost to the defence – a cost neither adopted budgets nor the spring agreed settlements have been taken into account in the revision. I would also like to remind you that in 1996 Lista Airport AS was granted a pre-purchase right by the then Labour Party administration to a large part of the area – an option that Lista Airport can still choose to exploit so that large parts of the property will still be privately owned, regardless of today's two proposals. I therefore assume that none of the two proposals put forward will have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e586	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e589	Several have been involved in the Gulf project, and the Council of State was also concerned with controlling the economy. Especially refers to delivery project 2, as it's probably called, LP 2, which is the second phase of the Gulf. I have the following question: is LP 2 in the Program Golf submitted to the Stortinget? And then when will this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e594	I would like to begin by noting that I see it as very gratifying that the Riksrevision so clearly states that with Golf there is a significantly better basis for a complete, accurate and reliable allocation account than what we had before. I am also very pleased that the Riksrevision says that only when the Gulf Phase II is completed, with, among other things. solution for internal accounting, it may be expected that the Defence Military Organisation has at its disposal an appropriate tool to follow up the financial management and control requirements resulting from the Appropriations Regulation and the Financial Regulation. This is important because the Government and the Workers' Party have agreed to support the Gulf project. And if we were to continue with 80 accounting units, as the Defense itself had, we wouldn't have had the opportunity to satisfy the Financial Regulation. Having said that, I would like to say that in the legislation that is between magnification and government, it is clear that projects over a certain size, category 1 projects, are to be submitted to the Stortinget. If the projects are smaller, it is in any case important that they are referred to the Stortinget, and such reference will come to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e601	As long as this State Council has been in charge of the Ministry of Defence, there have been problems with the accounts — every year. They have either been subjugated, or they have been accepted under strong doubt, as well as in 2004. Does the Council now have an overview and governance of the economy so far in 2005? And what's her 2005 forecast? Can she guarantee that the 2005 accounts will balance with the grip she has now described for us?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e606	I put considerable emphasis on the comments of the National Audit Office. The economic audit carried out by the National Audit Office, both for 2003 and 2004, has been in close contact with the Ministry of Defence, and the Riksrevision’s comments are given considerable weight. It is therefore very gratifying that the Riksrevision of the accounts for 2004 has noted a number of areas of improvement compared to 2003. The fact that we took the burden of switching from 80 accounting units to one, to satisfy the Financial Regulation, has given rise to significant entry problems – there is no doubt about it. It also showed the review of the accounts for 2003. The fact that the indicators point in the right direction, and that there are positive improvements, shows that the hard work done by the defence to bring conditions under control has produced positive results, and we already know that for 2005 a significant step has been taken in the right direction compared to the situation when the accounts for 2004 were drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e613	The replicator's question was simple, but the answer was not that simple. I want to make it easier for the Council of States to answer: the Greier Defense to stay within the 2005 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e618	We are now in June 2005. We know the formal answer when the accounts are prepared at the beginning of January 2006 and the National Audit Office has carried out its evaluation. But what we can say at the moment is that several of the areas to which the Riksrevision had commented in 2003 have been significantly improved in 2004. In addition, we know that in some of the areas to which the Riksaudition commented in 2004, among others. the pay line is, officially declared by the Armed Forces Staff, the problems solved for 2005. That's what's important, that you work seriously to provide the required management. And, of course, the guidelines for the defence management are that the budgets that have been allocated should be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e624	On 5 April this year, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to present a separate case on how to recover overall control of the defence economy. Then someone didn't think about St.meld. No 29, which deals with only one year’s additional consumption – 2004 – then one did not think about comments in the revised national budget, and one did not think about the annual reports of the National Audit Office. Then Stortinget thought of a separate matter about how to recover overall control and control of the defence economy. My simple question to the Council of State is: When can the Storting expect the Government to follow up that decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e631	I guess that's the answer for Stortinget, because the government has said that we're aiming to file a case during the fall of 2005. This matter will, of course, include important actions and not least a summary of what we have learned now, not only through this communication, but also through what has been presented in the revision, and what has emerged from the National Audit Office’s evaluation of the 2004 financial statements. But what I want to say is that one in such a matter from the Government will, of course, also underline the importance of continuing with the conversion goals and with the course that Gunnar Halvorsen was at, as this government has set, in close cooperation with the Workers' Party. And one of the more interesting questions in relation to alternative government constellations, will be whether the Center Party and SV will be able to stress the importance of the course that this government has held, and as Gunnar Halvorsen stressed the need to complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e638	I see that I have to follow up the representative's question. The Labour Party has always supported the Gulf programme. It was then State Councillor Bjørn Tore Godal who provided for a phase-in, and that one phase should be taken at a time. The condition for this was, of course, that Stortinget should be presented at every stage. If I understood the Government's response to Gunnar Halvorsen right, she actually says that whether she wants to present Phase 2 to the Storting depends on how much it costs. Then I just want to ask the State Council to confirm that the LP 2, i.e. Phase 2 of the Program Golf, will be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment. My second question is: will the Council follow up the List Repurchase if the Progress Party this evening supports our proposal subsidiaryly?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e649	In my reply to Gunnar Halvorsen, I briefly described what is today's arrangement, namely that the purchase over a certain sum is presented to the Stortinget for decision, while the purchase under a certain sum is given a review. The size may be expressed, but not necessarily a concrete decision. It's the current arrangement. This does not mean that the Storting will not in any case be given an opportunity in connection with the budget for the harvest to express what they actually believe about phase 2 of Golf. And then, of course, I assume that the Workers' Party, which in this case has made up an important majority, together with the Government, also sees the need to have a high pace around the next phase of the Gulf, because not least the Riksrevision so clearly provides us with support in that this is a necessary phase in order to solve some of the challenges that the Riksrevision has pointed to, and postponement here will, of course, mean postponement to be able to meet some of the demands that the Riksrevision has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e656	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e661	Anyone who knows the situation in the List region in West Agder sees the importance of Lista airport becoming an active aerodrome in the future. In 2001/2002 the municipality and the county applied to participate in the round of tenders for runways and regional airports. They applied for a maximum of three million. kr in the year until the new road in the area is completed in 2006. Thus, the Lista region could today have scheduled flights at the aerodrome if the Government had shown a willingness to act instead of being wrangled. In the 2001 election campaign, the current government member Ansgar Gabrielsen said that: ‘List of Aerodromes and Business Parks concerned, scheduled air services are of the highest priority. I believe that the requirement of state aid and the imposition of the air route on State tenders are absolutely a natural requirement.» Who has failed the List and Lista region in West Agder should not be difficult to see. The municipality was offered to purchase the airport for 200 million. kr, which of course is completely unrealistic. Instead, the government decided to use nearly 11 million. kr to give away the airport to a private company, and the Council of State claimed on the basis of questions from me on 27 January 2004 that everything was in the best order. Now we know the truth. This case has become a disgrace to the politician, and the government must take responsibility for it. Now it has to be properly cleaned. It is not possible to allow the community, and hence the population of the Lista, to be treated in as easily a way as has been done in this matter. The list of airports was a military airport before 1995. At first, the then Minister of Defense, the current Prime Minister of Deposit, and a member of the Workers' Party, Jørgen Kosmo, were very active in the work that was done to provide local forces with alternative operations to the Air Force. After this, everything has gone wrong. I hope that the bulk of the population today will make sure that it is cleaned up on the list. It's actually the smallest voters in the Lista region can expect today's politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e681	This debate has largely taken place on the three other issues we are going to deal with later this evening, which otherwise makes it impractical that we do not have lines, so that we could get rid of the worst misunderstandings along the way. They have been spoken both in the media and repeatedly in the debate today. The representative Engeset has already prepared the central party's somewhat special approach, that of cutting at least 200 million. kr until the FLO should have brought about better financial management, while the Central Party, like the unit itself, has considered that the downsizing has been the biggest problem. It has to be said to be a pretty interesting kind of double communication. The rendezvous of the army general inspector and the FLO chief of scapegoats has been rejected by the National Audit Office, which specified who has the actual responsibility, as other branches of the Defense took. It's also made a point during the debate how important it is to buy back the list, how little happens there, and that there are different perceptions of reality in this room. Then I think there's a reason to listen to what the buyer said yesterday to the Farsund Newspaper under the heading 'There's a lot going on here'. Because what the buyer says is: ‘Everyone is allowed to say something about Lista Flypark, and about the sale, operation and interpretations that the State has had. But I'm told when they also come up with such statements. They're completely groundless. No one; neither local politicians nor national politicians have asked us what is happening here.’ The current operating year, he expects to sum up 6,000 guest days on the overnight part and expects to have already booked a new 5,000 guest days for the next year. He goes on to say: ‘There are many activities. The police are a regular good customer at the conference center. German airclubs, microflying skills, youth camps and crews and singing choirs have been held on the customer list.» Reading this gives reason to question the reality of those who want to spend state resources on something that seems to work out perfectly well. So then the question really goes back to those who think it is important to ensure development on the list: what about listening to those who have already bought the list and thinking that there is a huge development there? How about you take a look at the locals from yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e702	Let me first go back to the post of the representative here next and reassure him that the Workers' Party does not support any alliance-free self-sufficiency defence to NOK 80 billion, so that it is fixed. The Programme of the Workers' Party states that: «The Working Party builds our security policy on Norwegian membership of NATO. We will further develop NATO cooperation and strengthen the work of the OSCE and the Council of Europe on peaceful conflict resolution.' I am not going to hire the representative to read out the entire program, just stress that we have also decided to follow up the Long-term defence plan during the period. We want the defence to adapt to a modern threat picture with new and more complex threats, and we will ensure that the defence will have enough operational personnel available to respond to crises and wars both at home and outside. It is therefore the defence and security policy adopted by the National Labour Party for the next four years. Then in this setting we have also said some about a comparative analysis carried out by the Defence in Norway and the Danish Defence. There's a big difference. Now it should also be said that there are differences in the geography between Norway and Denmark, but in fact Denmark has a very large jurisdiction area over sea areas. However, part of the basis for comparison is interesting. Wages and salaries are higher in Norway than in Denmark, and more money is spent on material and structure in Denmark than in Norway. Norway’s command and base structure is larger and costs more — it should otherwise be lacking, with our geography. Denmark has several forces called deplorable, i.e. they can be used quickly. Norway spends twice as much on consultants as Denmark, and Denmark has not had annual reduction as target management. So you've tried to bring down costs in a different way. I would like the State Council Krohn Devold to come up here and say something about what we're talking about in the position, about whether we can learn something from Denmark, and about the Ministry of Defence in the further work on the economy will look a little bit at how Denmark has solved some problems and how they run the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e718	I regret to note that this debate has already become very, very exciting. It's not for the president to be held guilty, it's for all of us. But these things interact in different ways. When in the position we are discussing, there are proposals for a decision to buy back the list, I have to spend some time commenting on the proposals that are there. Repurchasing the list would result in significant costs for the country. The amount of these costs cannot be established before negotiation with the owner of the property. If one of the proposals that has been put forward was to have a majority, it would lead the seller to come into a monopoly situation and dictate the price he might want. Is this a reasonable use of people's tax money? If the State is to be able to buy something, it must also be a seller who is willing to sell, unless the State would somehow make use of the Basic Law provisions on expropriation, but there is something special in this case. In addition to the cost of getting the property back, there are significant costs of upgrading and maintenance, for which the List Airpark is currently responsible. And not enough: in addition, extra costs will be incurred when returning to the municipality. Because we must assume that any municipality will exploit the fact that the Stortinget has ordered the Government to sell the property to the municipality – most local politicians do have a certain nutritional knowledge. In 1996, the list Airport AS was given the right to pre-empt large parts of the property. Are they supposed to be bought from this right? They still have the right to pre-emption. In this case, additional costs will be incurred. Otherwise, it is only to note that one private owner, Lista Airport AS, is acceptable, while another, Lista Flypark AS, is not. Such progress will, at best, lead to significant delays in bringing about new business development in the List. In the worst case, this case may contribute to this work being stopped altogether or significantly weakened. I believe that all this speaks for the fact that it is a very bad use of people's tax dollars to use them for the buy-back of Lista airstation. I would also like to remind you that the income Stortinget provided for by the sale of defence property has provided additional income of a net of NOK 1 billion. This is money that has been used to further develop and operate the defence. This, therefore, is in addition to the significant savings the defence achieves through less annual operating costs, for the list alone is 56 million. kr in annual operating costs saved as a result of the sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e731	I note that the representative Engeset believes that there are some people here who live in the world of fantasy. It is possible, but such characteristics unfortunately have a bad tendency to reverse. It becomes a little strange when the same representative takes the Riksrevision review of the accounts for 2004 to the income of the choice made by the Minister of Defence to shift responsibility down to some Chapter owners. I cannot see that the Riksrevision has affected this in any way. Nobody here argues that the military and the FLO's chapter owners had a responsibility. The question is who takes the overall responsibility. The defense spent too much money in 2004, more than you actually had. This makes it apparent that there has not been sufficient economic governance in the defence in recent years. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence – and to the extent of the Right. I do not see that the Riksrevision has affected the issue of overall responsibility. Then I would like to quote from a comparative analysis of the Danish and Norwegian defences presented a while ago, which are linked to the flagship in recent years, namely the need for large investments. It says: ‘The investment share measured in crowns is significantly higher in Norway than in Denmark. Over the last eight years, the difference has been 4-5 billion per year. From this point of view, Norway will have a real estate park worth approx. 34 billion more than Danes, but where these increased values lie is not obvious.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e743	Earlier in this debate it was said from the Presidential seat – it was before the staff exchange took place – that joy is not too much of it in this house. I came to associate it with a scripture, where it says that there is greater joy in heaven over one sin that reverses, than over nineteen righteous who do not need repentance. So it is in heaven, but the Great One is not heaven. In this context, there is significantly greater competition to be found among the nineteen fair. I record that after the Stortinget has asked its own control body, the National Audit Office, to speed up the review of the accounts for 2004, and has received a very nuanced review, it is something that has passed the house for parts of the opposition. I think that's remarkable, that the Storting itself does not care about what the Superintendent says. When the Supervisory Body of the Storting determines, in the light of the debate that has taken place, among others: in this house, that FMO units have a separate responsibility to have an overview of the unit's overall obligations, it is funny that three parties spend most of their speaking time in this debate to continue a rather meaningless debate on the course that has taken place in the meantime. It should be superfluous. I also registered that the representative Arnstad accused the Workers' Party of accident. It's a characteristic that it's not so common to exchange among engageds, but I'm going to leave it to the two parties to find out how the communication is going to be in the future. It is more alarming when the same representative from the Central Party, who has himself been the Council of State in a government, says from the Chair of the Stortinge that the Government has not handled defence policy in a way that is trustworthy in the last four years. It is common for the person using such expressions in the Storting to consider himself obliged to take a minimum of responsibility for the language used. But here it must be right, based on the course of the debate, to say that in the alliance between the SV, the Progress Party and the Central Party – it is in itself a remarkable alliance – there is a significant imbalance between fighting ability and noise levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e758	The President had expected us to finish this debate by noon. 16th@item: inlistbox I think there's someone who wants that. For the time being, the President has four speakers for three minutes' speeches. If there are no more subscribers, the President is prepared to continue the meeting. Is there anyone after this dare to draw? - It's not. Then we continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e761	The representative of Marit Nybakk assured me of the Workers' Party's defence and security policy. It was unnecessary in itself, for I said in my speech that that policy has been developed earlier, in cooperation with the government parties and not least with the Right. So the question really arises whether the partners with whom she is involved in a desire to cooperate in the excellence of a majority government are satisfied that they are going to submit to the Defence and Security Policy of the Workers Party without any negotiating right. Or can I get insurance from Marit Nybakk that she has authority to say that, in the case of NATO, in the case of the EU, in the case of ‘Battle Groups’, in the case of the framework conditions for the Defence, it is that cooperation continues to take place in an understanding between the Right and the Workers' Party. It'll make me happy. Whether it will delight the Center Party and SV equally, it remains to be seen. So I'm a little surprised at the attention that has become around the concept of horizontal trade. It looks like it's a lot like putting on the robes and talking about the merri. For horizontal trade, there is nothing that has now been introduced. In order to take the piece of horizontal trade related to the rental scheme, e.g., it was introduced by the Stoltenberg government, with Bjørn Tore Godal as Minister of Defence. I've hurt to believe that Marit Nybakk believes that Bjørn Tore Godal had a crazy system. So Marit Nybakk continues: "I fundamentally disagree with the structural thinking behind horizontal trade." Now there is an interesting question about how old the fundamental disagreement was when it arose. Did it count on a mountain, or has it been there for a long time? It could hardly have been there from Bjørn Tore Godal's time as Minister of Defense – I'm still saying that I don't believe that Marit Nybakk believes that Bjørn Tore Godal would have introduced some crazy systems. Apart from that, there could be a lot to say about horizontal trade. It was developed as early as 1992 and 1993 by the introduction of the new concept of defence governance during this period. So that's nothing new. That it is possible to use the kind of characteristics of a system that has been in operation for at least ten years is surprising in itself. Language usage is even more surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e770	I note that the representative Dahl uses a progress party as a witness to the truth in this debate. I think it would have been reasonable for the Right perhaps to listen to the rapporteur in the municipality of Farsund and that municipality has said both at hearings and I go from here, also through the contact they have had with the situation at Lista airport. Otherwise, I can call on the Progress Party to listen to the owner of Lista Flypark, because he is taking a complete distance from the proposal that the Advance Party is promoting here. The Government Parties write in the Settings on page 22: ‘These members will indicate that if the State still owned Lista airstation, it is not certain that the municipality of Farsund would choose to exercise the right of pre-emption of the property in accordance with the rules now in force. This pre-purchase right applies only to purchases at tariff level. Thus, in the opinion of these members, there is a significant risk that, if it would be possible to restore the property to the State, the State may be present with the property and its associated costs, because it appears that the municipality will not take over the property under the terms of the Ministry of Defence’s authorisation to accept it.’;» This is really turning your legs away from your own government and government council so it sings after. It is not the case in today's society that there are other powers of the Ministry of Defence in relation to the coronation and amounts of Lista Airport when they sell to a private person, than when they sell to someone else. This comment must only mean one thing, as I see it: if the government parties assume that it is the fare of 200 million. kr to be taken into account, the Government Parties have written here that the Ministry of Defence has violated its powers in relation to the disposal of the List. Now, hopefully they get a chance to clean up. I fully agree that there is a wrong use of taxpayers' money. But it's made a mistake. It's a society that gets hurt because of this loss, and then one should really act and clean up the situation that is. The best thing to say to the government parties in this debate that is around Lista Airpark now is: Good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e786	I'll promise to be short. I again challenge the Council of State to answer me, and her answer should in fact be short as well. I have to say that I feel very insecure and uncomfortable with experience about the answers given by the Council of State to both Kjetil Bjørklund and me regarding: What is ‘standa’ around the accounts in 2005? That's the exceedances we're talking about here today. That's what's going on. That's why it's very important to know now: how is this going? Does the Council of State feel that she's got the roof on this? Does she feel that the grip she has now indicated she has performed is good enough? Where are we today, in 2005? What will be the result in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e793	I basically understand that the Right needs to attack with a little rough grain ammunition in this case. I guess all the parties would have had it after four years with responsibility for a sector with the result we're facing today. When Mr. Wages and salaries want to phase out the debate on an additional consumption of over DKK 1 billion in 2004 by referring to the fact that the National Audit Office's report for 2004 is more nuanced than before, I am surprised at all the time the National Audit Office's report of the year before actually signed the accounts. Then it will not be much until the next report becomes a little more nuanced. I also understand that the Right needs to attack. I also understand that they are bringing forward the different government options. But then the question is back: how does the Right intend to deal with a progress party that they have so far let that not exist? It's a party that's there as a reality, that maybe will come back after the election and be larger than the largest party in government, and that right has to relate to even in the next period. How should they relate to such a progress party? What I am asking is the following: How about if a company is in favour of conversion, what kind of private enterprise with the same kind of result as the defence would not be willing to look at the pace of the transition, the demands that have been made, the manner in which the dismantling has taken place, and the way in which the conversion has taken place? But here in the house and within the Defence – no.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e804	The President sees that his request is not being followed. The President should only have done as he had previously intended – to end the meeting at noon. 16th@item: inlistbox – Inge Wohnning has asked for the floor after Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e809	I guess the case rapporteur has 3 minutes, but I'm not going to use them. If the representative Hernæs had listened to my post, he would not have heard the word ‘crazy’. I think I used the expression "hopeless system", which fortunately is on the waving front several places. I want to maintain that I fundamentally disagree with the structural thinking behind what is called the New Public Management theory. I don't think it's a model that fits a command organization like the Defense. I want to refer to what I said in my post that there must be no doubt in the defense about where the command is. We can get into a crisis situation, and it must be that you have an overall structure of clear command lines. In addition, they play shops within a public sector, or a monopolistic organization, where there are no competitors. That means that the market you're trying to create doesn't exist. Then this must go wrong. The majority of the Committee calls for an overall evaluation of the system of horizontal trade. So maybe you're slowing down the use of this, and you're changing a little bit of the structural thinking that I'm experiencing is behind horizontal trade in the defense today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e822	Marit Arnstad was occupied by the Progress Party for some reason. It was perhaps time she discovered that in the matter that is being dealt with here, the Center Party and the Advance Party go beautifully hand in hand. They express themselves in the same way and are concerned with the same issues. I didn't want to put any point in the debate on economic governance in the Defense, of course not. I wanted to put a dot for the siding on which the Alliance of Progress Parties, the Centre Party and the SV have run this debate, and on which the Riksrevision has allowed itself to point is a siding. That's why I think it's strange that these three parties are doing as the lady in the folk adventure: they insist on cutting, cutting, despite the fact that the Storting's own supervisory board has already put a stop to that debate. Marit Arnstad now formulated herself considerably more moderately as she put the spotlight on the four years that this government has been responsible for defence policy. I appreciate that. At the same time, I feel justified in stressing that this government has nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to defence policy during this four-year period. The problems that have arisen in relation to financial management in an extremely demanding transition phase, a shift that is far more extensive than any public sector in Norway has ever seen, are real problems. We'll take them seriously. The National Audit Office has pointed out that improvements are still needed. With regard to the process, and with regard to the ability of Norwegian defence to solve their problems, we are today much better rusted than we did four years ago. That's what this house should be interested in. After all, the responsibility of the Greatness is to contribute to the King, i.e. the government may perform the tasks assigned to the King under the Constitution in respect of the provision of Norwegian security and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e838	There has been some doubt as to whether the president should perceive it in such a way that Marit Nybakk has taken up the proposal that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are united in the vote. – It has now been observed by the President that the representative Marit Nybakk has addressed the proposal to which it was referred. Marit Arnstad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e845	I fully agree with the representative of Wage that this is one of the most comprehensive processes in the public sector seen. More importantly, one has the will to go through the process along the way to see if there has been a false cut, to see if the price should be corrected, to see if there is something that should be done differently. The will in this hall of the government parties and the Workers' Party – in part – to do so is very small. And that surprises me, because in any private enterprise I think they would have that will. That makes a lot of sense in the defence policy of the Progress Party, and, in fact, the Progress Party and the Centre are united on a good part in defence policy. But there is a lot of evidence that the government that is currently sitting has not discovered how dependent it might become on the Progress Party, and how dependent it will be on dealing with the Advance Party in any new period. In addition, my use of words: I know very well where the balance point of the Storting goes, and the words I expressed were that it ‘does not provide confidence’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-14.ana.ud1349e854	Then we have finished dealing with case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The majority is now taking a break in its negotiations. [[Fotation, see page 2893]] The meeting will be set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
