ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e28	A number of permit applications are available: from the representative, Michael Momyr, on sick leave from 24 May onwards and until further notice, from 24 May onwards, on sick leave for the representative, Mr Avshan Rafiq, from 24 May onwards and until further notice, from 24 May onwards, on sick leave for the representative, Mr Karin S. Woldseth, from 24 May onwards and until further notice, from the Christian People's Party Group, on sick leave for the representative, Mr Anita Apelthun Säle, from 24 May onwards and until further notice, from the representative, Mr André Kijkestad, on leave from 24 May until 26 May to take part, as rapporteur for the Moldovan Monitoring Committee of the Council of Europe, These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Pål Kårbø, there is an application to be exempted from meeting at Stortinget under the representative Anita Apelthun Sæles leave, for welfare reasons. From the first and second alternates of Akershus County, Harald Espelund and Ib Thomsen respectively, applications are made to be exempted from meeting at Stortinget under the leave of the representative André Kukkestad from 24 May to 26 May, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Maria HoffFor Hordaland County: Kari Sørheim and Jan KöløyFor Oslo: Brit I. H. AndreassenFor South-Trundellag County: Anne Kathrine Slungård3. Anne Kathrine Slungård is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Michael Momyr.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e103	Maria Hoff, Kari Sørheim, Jan Koløy, Brit I. H. Andreassen and Anne Kathrine Slungård are present and will take the seat. The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e108	On behalf of the representatives of Bjørn Jacobsen, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and myself, I would like to propose measures for a more active Norwegian EEA policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e113	Lena Jensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e116	On behalf of the representatives Kristin Halvorsen, Rolf Rekvam and myself, I would like to make a private proposal to introduce free school meals in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e121	The representative of Eirin Fallet will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e124	On behalf of the representatives of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, Gunn Karin Gjul and myself, I would like to make a proposal to prevent Internet-related abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e129	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e147	Norwegian municipalities face major challenges in the time to come. The citizens are increasingly demanding the services they expect to be provided. It concerns the scope of services, their quality and price. With the price, I think about what is left for the tax money, any self-payment and the services that are tax-funded. A number of studies have shown that citizens are increasingly concerned about being able to choose for themselves. New technologies and better information provide greater knowledge of both what offers are available and what rights you have as a resident. In total, this is becoming a very dynamic development, where supply and quality are getting better and better. Nevertheless, not all residents feel that it works this way. Norwegian municipalities are, and will probably always be, very different. There's something of the quality of our local democracy. We're going to have the opportunity to make local choices, make local priorities, give citizens the opportunity to choose for themselves how to solve these problems for each municipality. And that also means that we should occasionally, on the Lion's Hill, curb our efforts to lay down standards of equality on services where the municipalities and local people can make the choice very good. It's now so that it knows best where the shoe prints it. I am concerned about the quality of public services. The individual is, after all, our contracting entity, whether we are employed in the public sector or we have been given the honour of being in charge of it, either in local government, in county councils or here at Stortinget. In this interpellation, I am concerned with the municipalities, which are responsible for providing their citizens with quality services in a wide range of areas. A good practice in many municipalities is to stop occasionally and to define thoroughly what should be the core activity of the municipality. What are we really good at? What do we have to get better at? What can we leave to others to help us deliver services on? What do our citizens want us to prioritise now? This is an excellent opportunity to make the local self-government alive. Core tasks can and should vary slightly from municipality to municipality. Large municipalities face challenges other than small municipalities, just as, of course, urban municipalities meet a different set of challenges than rural municipalities. Demographic compositions may vary considerably, while the possibilities and ability to perform tasks in cooperation with neighbouring municipalities vary widely across the country. Similarly, there are wide variations in the offer from other actors who are ready to step in to help solve some of the tasks that municipalities have a responsibility for. The important thing for me is that we locally, as here at Stortinget, are able to ask in every case: What is best for the individual citizen or for the user of the service we are expected to provide? I have been in my entire political life, and it is now approaching 30 years when people elected both in local government, county councils and now in the Grand Council, have been very concerned about the quality of public services and the ability of citizens to make their own choices. I have had the pleasure of being involved in a huge development over these 30 years – a long struggle for improvements in areas that today seem almost entirely natural. New technologies have opened up new opportunities in emerging areas. Things are changing at an ever faster pace. The need for change and modernisation is growing. We live more and more in a society where the only thing sure is that it's in constant change. Our citizens are becoming increasingly aware of what they can expect, and they are able to record what other actors are able to deliver, both on volume, quality and price. With today's eyes, it's almost embarrassing to think back on the discussions we had a few years ago about what should be municipal core business. In my home municipality of Tønsberg, for example, we were driving. for many years, municipal marinas. At least three municipal employees managed this, the waiting lists for the boating grounds were enormously long, complaining a lot, and the attendance at the municipality's central table with requests to sort this out became more and more. So there were some of us who got the idea that this might have been the best users to fix in themselves. Running a marina could not, in my opinion, be counted among the core municipal tasks, although the overall coastline of the municipality was more than 50 kilometres. As I said. This was the responsibility of the local boat associations themselves. The municipality retained ownership of the infrastructure, but left the operation to those who were closest to it to it – those who had given priority to staying on their own boat. The three municipal employees could concentrate their work on other challenges in the technical sector, and we had a part of them. Strangely enough, the huge attendance at the municipality's central table disappeared during the boat season, waiting lists quickly became considerably shorter, and user satisfaction increased sharply. A little before this, some of the same thing had happened on the cinema front. There were two movie theaters in the municipality, one municipal and one private. The municipal cinema was supposed to be the guarantor of cultural diversity, that is. It was a truth with pretty big modifications. The films were strikingly similar, but the difference was that the municipal cinema was running out of money, while the private obviously gave living to two or three families without government subsidies. We put down the municipal cinema. After a while it was replaced by a new private cinema. Today it's become nine cinemas, almost twelve halls, and an enormous cultural diversity every day throughout the week. But Hogsnes, this is then no one against, I get to hear still away. No, that's right. Nobody's against it today. But when that happened, the brides were big. There were several municipal employees who had to find something else to do. Besides, it was culturally hostile. Yes, even protest marched with the entire city's left radical and socialist elite through the city as a funeral party, carrying a coffin and a cardboard figure of the city's then rapporteur. So instead, the majority of the city council gave users the freedom to choose on the cinema front as well, and spent the money on other cultural purposes. There have been few protests against that freedom of choice in recent years. I don't think cinema needs to be a municipal core task either. I can do this list a lot longer. I can talk about kindergartens, about schools, about old-age and nursing homes – areas where competition has given more offers, better offers and, above all, greater freedom of choice to the population. My point is that what we were doing 15 to 20 years ago, and on which there were then violent political battalions, today appears as banal naturalities. But we should remember that this happened in a climate of change. About the same time, the NRK monopoly was broken, and the law of closure became the law of opening, to mention some of the many changes. The society was basically changing so much in so many areas that it might be enough, someone thought. There's something recognizable about this. Now we have to stop all this change soon, it was a rapporteur who said at a conference I was at recently. The answer he received from me was enough for him a little uplifting: we have started so far. Things now change so quickly that the inhabitants expect their municipality to hang on to the turns. In other words, the time is overdue to lift this development some long steps forward in a wide range of municipalities. This is not a specific issue for Norway. Many other countries have come a long way in testing other solutions to increase the freedom of choice of citizens. From the political debate here at home, we see that there are forces that more than would like to put on the brakes, that would reverse, that would restrict the freedom of citizens to choose, and that would strengthen the public monopolies to provide services. That is why I have addressed this interpellation to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs. I am simply concerned with developing the quality of public services. I am convinced that more user-friendly services and increased freedom of choice are important to ensure that. A lot of good work is done in this field in a wide range of municipalities, experiences that it is well worth sharing with as much as possible. It is both good and less good experience, but this material provides a very good basis for taking long steps forward. Freedom of choice is for me about improving the quality of services. In my view, it will also help people to enjoy greater security for their homes and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e179	The representative of Hogsnes is concerned with improving the quality of public services and believes that more user-friendly services and increased freedom of choice are important to ensure this. I also want to stress that there is a need to discuss what we put into the concept of core business, which the representative Hogsnes also mentions. So the government and I share the view that we need to improve the quality of public services, and that user-adapted services and increased freedom of choice are an important part of ensuring better quality of public services. In the municipal proposal, which was put forward recently, and in the forthcoming public sector modernisation action plan, freedom of choice and user adaptation of services will play a central role. Modernisation of the public sector is a high priority of this government. Freedom of choice is an important means of achieving a more user-adapted public sector. These are not just words. It's a question of recognising that we're each different as people, that we have different needs, and that we might best take control of it even if we get more freedom of choice and manage to adapt services better. For me, the question of core activities in the municipal sector is primarily a question of who has the financial responsibility. I would always say that school and care for the elderly are among the core areas of activity within a municipality. Here the municipality is responsible for financing and responsibility for ensuring that the services are provided, but not everyone is responsible for the execution. Within that area, you can make use of other providers, other ways to organise them, without at any time being driven by the public's task of providing such services. When the Government is working to strengthen freedom of choice in a number of areas, we are doing so for the benefit of the citizens. So let's do that. in the health sector. We have done so, among other things. through greater freedom of choice and through rights in the form of patient guarantee schemes. But since I am the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, in this answer I will concentrate on the municipal sector and the services for which the municipalities are responsible. I agree that kindergarten development has a large element of freedom of choice, both in terms of offer and type of kindergarten. And when we have full babysitting, we will also experience that freedom of choice becomes so real that it will be the quality of the individual kindergarten that will be crucial, but it will be different providers. The government has also said in the municipal bill that we are going to give greater freedom of choice in terms of user-oriented personal assistance for disabled people, precisely because we believe that once you are approved to receive an offer from the municipality, you have to be able to choose how this offer should be designed, as long as it is good enough for quality. I have registered that in that area, most parties have already given their consent to disabled people being given freedom of choice, but in other areas, it does not seem that one is willing to give the same freedom of choice. Why do I, like Mr Hogsnes, think that freedom of choice provides a better service? Well, because freedom of choice is about improving the quality of services. I know that those who work, for example. in the municipal home care service, they can do what they can to provide the best possible service to those receiving the services. But yet we haven't managed to create systems that make it a few people who come to a home-aid recipient, and that they come when they're going to. I have met many people in the public sector and many users while I have been a municipal minister. One of the people who made the most impression on me was an elderly lady in Oslo who thanked Oslo Municipality at City Councillor Erling Lae and us Right-wing people for having her choose home help. Her story is special, but not atypical for the situation. That's what can happen to many of us at a time when we're getting old and nurturing. She told me that she needed help to wash indoors. But she had in one year between 50 and 60 home helpers who came to her. Most of us would experience that as a difficult situation to live with. Yes, in fact, she felt that she had to visit the home assistant as a burden, not as a help, precisely because she had to deal with so many. When she was then allowed to choose, she chose a supplier who guaranteed that only a few people would come home to care for her. For her freedom of choice was a matter of dignity and security in old age. In my opinion, introducing freedom of choice also means empowering people. People should make decisions that are important in one's own life, whether it be the choice of school or the choice of who will come home and take care of you. It's about giving power back to the individual user, that is. to the person for whom the service offer is actually for. It's those who experience quality at home in their own living room, who can best assess whether quality is good. Today, rich people can buy what they want, whether it be school or home help. They have a real freedom of choice. In my opinion, this freedom of choice should apply to all, irrespective of financial resources, and therefore I want to stimulate more free choice schemes in the municipal sector. I want to take an example to illustrate this. Earlier this winter, we were able to read in the Address Paper about a young man — a wheelchair user — who had resigned the municipal home help and bought himself a private service. The reason, we could read in the paper, was that this man, who needed help to lay down, felt that the maids did not come when they were going to. At some point he experienced being woken up to be laid, because the home help had not been able to come at the time that was agreed. He chose a private company, which he had to pay for himself, but which he really could not afford. With free user choice, he could have chosen a supplier who satisfied the requirements he had, without having to pay for it himself. It also means that he – if he had experienced the same thing from the private supplier he experienced from the municipality – could choose to switch to another. What is happening in such a process? Well, it's that everyone who provides services becomes more concerned with satisfying users than with systems where you put up more to make everything functional for the service itself. In my view, it should not be the wallet that should be essential if you are to be able to obtain the quality, services and freedom of choice you would like. The experience from Oslo regarding user choice is good, according to an evaluation of the testing scheme carried out by the consultant company Kaupang in the autumn of 2004. Overall, satisfaction with home care services appears to be slightly higher in 2004 than in 2002. Those who use private home help workers are more satisfied than those who use municipal home help workers. The satisfaction with the municipal provision is the same in these two years. Nearly 70 pst. By the users, they say they're positive for user choice, and 80 pst. users make an active choice of supplier, according to the same survey. But many still choose municipal home help. This says that the choice is something that users themselves appreciate – not necessarily that they would choose anything else. This is bad with claims I have heard being used against free user choice, namely that the elderly are unable to choose. Then not many people would make an active choice. But it is also not forced to choose, it should be a right. As a woman running a home help company, we have to realize that older people can and will choose, they too. I sometimes find it incredible that those who are for disabled people to be allowed to choose do not think that older people should be allowed to choose, even if there are quite similar situations. Free user choice is not introduced to save money, but to improve quality. Heidi Holme Frøberg in Private Care said to Bergen's Official Journal for a while back: ‘This is not about who can take care of Grandma the cheapest. We did not compete on price, but had to prove to the municipality that we could deliver a service of quality." She went on to say, ‘We need to deliver quality. If we don't, users will switch to another in a short time." It's actually the simplest description of what freedom of choice in the care of the elderly is all about. I would like to stress that, although there is greater freedom of choice within the service offered to the municipalities, the municipalities are responsible for the service offered to the residents. We're not removing it. It's the municipalities that set the price, based on what they use on the same service. It is and should be the choice of the individual municipality whether to introduce free choice of use in the care of the elderly, to introduce free choice of school or by other means to stimulate and strengthen the freedom of choice of the population and to influence the provision of services. When we say that, it's because we in the Right have respect for local self-government. However, I record that the work that has been done under this government and in some parties contributes to the fact that several municipalities now choose to do so, and I think it is positive. Oslo and Bærum are examples of municipalities that have introduced free user choice in home help and free school choice. Bergen, Tønsberg and Haugesund are examples of municipalities that have either just started or are about to introduce freedom of choice. I particularly want to attract Eide municipality in More and Romesdal – a municipality with 3,200 inhabitants. They have now introduced free user choice in the home care service. This shows that it is also possible in smaller municipalities. We want to encourage more municipalities to introduce free user choice, including: through a local free user choice network in cooperation with KS. We have developed a guide and support projects that contribute to increased freedom of choice for the municipality's citizens. Each municipality has to choose for itself, but from the government side, we're going to contribute by stimulating the choice to make it easier. When we move the focus from the organisation to the user, we will see that the quality is improved. That's what you'll be measured by when you're selected within a user choice model.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e236	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. This is very positive, and in my view it is both offensive and visionary. I have registered that modernisation of the public sector is a high priority of the current government. There is freedom of choice an important means of achieving a more user-adapted public sector. For me, it is a crucial point that the introduction of freedom of choice means empowering people – that as much as possible can make decisions that are so important in each individual's life. That freedom of choice I will apply to everyone, not just to a few who will always afford to buy freedom of choice. Another point that matters to me is local autonomy. It shall be the choice of the individual municipality whether to introduce freer user choices in the care of the elderly, to introduce free choice of school or otherwise to strengthen the freedom of choice of the inhabitants and to influence the provision of services. We are beginning to get a wide range of examples, both from large, medium-sized and small municipalities, that this is possible. I am very pleased that the Government will stimulate more municipalities to introduce free user choice. I have noticed the good results that have come out of the local community network for freer user choice, in cooperation with the KS, while starting to access guidance material that helps to obtain and support projects that can contribute to increased freedom of choice for the municipality's citizens. This is not dangerous, although we have heard some politicians make it sweet. It's about modernising the public sector. It's about taking the people seriously. It's about taking us inward that it's the people who are our sponsors. That is why we should not let go of this. We still have to look for new and better solutions. The potential is enormous. The pace of the changes that happen in the world around us just increases and increases. That's our challenge, and I think the people actually expect us to take that challenge seriously. We can't just adopt ourselves out of the challenges of the future, but we can do a lot to help create a better future for the people. Once again, thanks to the Council of State for a commendable offensive attitude to these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e245	I think the most important point of freedom of choice is to make sure that people not only experience being clients to stand and receive, but that they are actually individuals who are allowed to influence and express themselves and have their own power position. I think that's an important part of all freedom of choice issues. I also record, in particular, in relation to the attitude of the elderly, that there is a part that believes that they are not able to make choices. That's what I think is an underestimation of adults' abilities and an A4 making of what kind of people need help. You can be mentally very up-to-date even if your body fails and you become help-dependent. I am also concerned that this is a form of competition – although it is not a competitive competition – and it is often such that you learn something of that kind of competition. In this context, you learn to be appreciated by the residents and by those who are users, and I record that there are some municipal home workers who have worked on this, who also feel that in their everyday lives it is actually good to be elected. The fact that you have chosen the municipality because you have confidence in the job they are doing contributes to this. But I've also seen some other examples lately of learning from competition. In the municipality of Trondheim, two municipal hospitals were offered shortly after the millennial change. I recently visited Moholt. When Norlandia started operating, they also started by giving more simple freedom of choice in everyday life, that people could choose when to stand up and when to lie down, and adapted the procedures accordingly. Now the majority of the municipality has decided to take back the operation, but the interesting thing, as I experienced in the meeting with the governor at Moholt, was that they say no, we don't go back to old forms of operation. They've chosen to keep the types of operations that Norlandia used, because they were good. They say correctly: we've learned something from the private operator, who gave us a better offer, and we're also doing it in other hospitals. This means, therefore, that having some competition and having a greater degree of freedom of choice also means that the public sector learns from other forms of operation that are positive in order to develop the quality of services. I have no doubt that there is a quality for the elderly who live in a nursing home, to be able to stand up or lie down at times that are more optional, and that not everyone should be finished until breakfast at noon. Nine in the morning. So there are models that show that when you have a little more pressure in that others show examples of how to do it in other ways, you also create a development without too much problems, and without always having to be a politician-initiated, but that it comes from the bottom of the organization by learning from others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e252	The working party wants the best possible welfare services for its inhabitants. It is our policy that we should renew and improve public services. We want to spend less resources on administration and more resources on services and welfare. It will definitely give the inhabitants a safer and simpler everyday life. The government has a one-sided focus on postponing competition and privatisation in order to streamline the local government sector. I believe that the search light should focus on quality development, new cooperation relations, skills utilisation and productivity improvements through active involvement of those adding. It's in my view a premise to be closed in this area. There are trials in several municipalities that have been very successful. I refer to the experiments in Sørum, Steinkjer and Porsgroen, where one has gained increased productivity, better services, more satisfied both users and employees, and where sick leave has been significantly reduced and one has received some considerable financial savings. This is a forward-looking way of doing development work. Here in the house there have been suggestions to inspire more attempts of this kind, but a majority in Stortinget, the representatives of the government party and the Progress Party, have rejected such a course. Representatives from the Right say that the elderly have to have free choices. It might sound nice, but some of the choices are actually more important than others. Option is to choose when to stand up in the morning, whether to wash the floor or shop. In the Labour Party, we want such freedom of choice – such as freedom of choice that has something to say for the elderly. Representatives from the Right do not talk about such options. Their free choice is about municipal home help or a private home help company. The service content is already programmed in advance, a default minimum offer. I doubt that older people are so preoccupied with free choice, but I suggest that they have a strong view that home help should be of good quality. They also stress that the caregiver in the hospital should have enough time for care. In recent years, our municipalities have received far too little funding for care for the elderly. Nursing staff misses their job these days, and thus the quality is reduced. Postponing or privatising elderly care does not help ordinary people. It does not improve care for the elderly, at least not for the vast majority of users. Of course, the most prosperous can buy for a better supply. But privatisation thus creates greater differences between people. That's not how we want it to be. Our course is that we should have public services, and then it requires a good community economy. We will fight for that in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e261	We live in a society where we take it as a matter of course that we are getting more and more freedom to choose and choose between different types of services and suppliers in relation to the big and small tasks of daily life. Although public authorities have begun to facilitate user choice and influence in some areas, there is still much to be done. Unfortunately, the so-called softer services are also, the more difficult it is to be accepted for user choice. Many people now say that care services cannot be compared with, for example: technical office security services and services. I fully agree with that – care services are far more important for most people. And that's exactly why it's totally incomprehensible that we haven't come any further with regard to the development of user involvement and the ability to choose between different service providers in this sector. In no other area are services that are more intimate and private than in the care and care sector – services that you need to have in order to cope with everyday life and to live a worthwhile life – intimately in relation to your own body, your own life situation and your own home and home. I guess there's hardly any other area where we need services, where we know best where the shoe prints. Competitive outsourcing, thus increasing user choice and choice in the care and care sectors, means influence and control over one's own everyday life and the ability to go from being a passive recipient to being an active user. Competitive deployment and user choice will also mean better quality. When different service providers have to compete with each other, the focus on quality will be increased. Session Options lead to increased user involvement. You will not choose one to provide services if you think your preferences for the service content are ignored. Growing diversity could also lead to new ways of providing care services that in themselves will help to improve the quality of welfare services. We have taken too much away from older people the ability to control their own life situation, to take control of their own homes – people who, even though the body starts to fail physically, can have a clearer head than both me and you. Therefore, any local politician has a responsibility to ask himself the question: how can I increase the freedom of choice of the elderly and caregivers in my municipality, whether the service is produced by the public or by a private provider? Although we experience greater freedom in some areas, it is provocative that in the most important areas of life it remains that politicians and bureaucrats take the elections for us to a large extent. Trust in the individual is one of the most basic things for the Right. Freedom to choose is about having confidence in the individual. Therefore, all of us as users of public services should ask politicians who deny us this freedom of choice by saying no to outsourcing, what makes them feel better able to make choices on our behalf than we are ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e270	I will first be allowed to give praise to the interpellant who repeats many debates we had here in the house 10–15 years ago. But those who brought this up for debate at the time did not belong to the same party as the inter-pellant; they were to a large extent representatives of the Progress Party. What I'm saying with that is that we are very pleased in the Advance Party that the Right and Government have moved significantly towards the Advance Party in terms of freer user choice. But I do not agree with the interpellant when he says that the government has an offensive attitude. We see that we have had a movement, but I have some doubts about the offensive when the Council of State still insists that it should be the municipality that determines the user choice. The Council of State uses local self-government as an argument that it should continue in this way. I think that's a little unfortunate. The right user choice and the right local self-government is with the individual, and then it also has a direct connection, I think. If you want to strengthen local self-determination, you have to think about the individual and the users also in that context, and then public funding is directly from the state to the institution or municipality the right thing to get the real freedom of choice. I also ask myself the same question as the Council of State: what are they afraid of, those who have such an active attitude towards user choice? What's the fear of a greater degree of user choice? Is it that the individual is more able to determine what needs he has, and what service provider is needed? To date, I have not found the agenda of those who are so opposed to free choice of use, and I do not know whether it can be the rights of employees or the situation of public sector employees that could be the agenda. But one thing is certain: at least they are not interested in the users. I also fully agree with the Council that we have seen a learning process. Time is very short, but I'd like to take an example of learning. In one of our progress party municipalities we had a private offer on the second floor and municipal providers on the first floor. When the private started to fry waffles every day and the smell of the good waffles streamed into the municipal department in the same building, the production of waffles was also started for the elderly in the public department of the same institution. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e279	I think I'll start by defining what kind of freedom it is that is important for SV. For SV it is e.g. important in the case of care for the elderly, that the older seas should have greater freedom to participate and define their needs. So it's important for SV that the elderly, once they've been granted help, have opportunities to manage parts of this help. If you, for example, have been granted help to wash the floor, but need to go and act, one should be allowed to spend time freer than today. So it is important for SV that the elderly be given the freedom to complain, and that you have a real opportunity to do so, for example. to replace him if he/she gets a home to help him/her shower, which he/she does not refuse to bring with him/her in the shower, or if he/she does not do the job to be done, so that there is a real right to apply. This is real freedom. There's this older people demand. Right-wing freedom does not mean that older people will be allowed to choose. No, right-wing freedom means that there are some people who have to define that, for example. will be given two hours. Then you have to wash the x number of square meters at that time. Should you choose to go to the store if you need it? No, you can't choose that. Should you choose if you need any more help? No, you can't choose that. The only thing to choose is that it is a private company that has to wash the floor in the same specified minutes. The promoter of standardisation and market thinking and benchmarking, as the Government does, promotes bureaucracy, detailed management and restrictions on freedom of choice and over-management. In fact, outsourcing requires that you have a predefined service in detail. You have to go home to old people with a stopwatch in your hand, where you have been told in advance what to do and how long it takes. For example, one must: Use ten minutes to go on do, and the showering takes 25 minutes, and that's it. This is kind of the test question of whether you want proper freedom of choice. Anyone who wants proper freedom of choice must therefore give priority to the well-being and the provision of public services, for example. treasure bill. I notice that no one from the Right has been up today and referred to the new study that Aplan Viak has done, which shows that privatisation makes welfare more expensive and increases bureaucracy. Having public care is unbureaucratic, reasonable and brings greater benefits over time. It would have been right if the Right had gone into the chest to give the municipalities the financial opportunity to offer a wide range of services to e.g. This is particularly true in the United Kingdom, where competition decisions are being implemented, for example, in the United Kingdom, and in the United Kingdom, where competition decisions are being implemented in the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. of home help services, as has been done here in Oslo, the municipal employees do not refuse to be as flexible as the private ones when they have won a tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e290	Carcinogenic 87-year-old is sent home to die. After five days he was assigned home help half an hour in the morning and evening. Example No. 2: One couple, aged 83 and 86, live at home and live by themselves. The woman in the house breaks the right wrist. She asks that the man stay at the hospital until she gets rid of the cast. The man gets room for three weeks. They have no space beyond these weeks, and they are left to themselves. In both of these two examples – the one from Stavanger Aftenblad yesterday, the other from a municipality of power, a municipality that the government wants to take away money because they think they have too much – it is not possible to choose which is the bend of the elderly who need help, but it is for two municipalities that do not have the opportunity to prioritize a more dignified care. The center part agrees with the interpellant that quality is important. We are some in that different people have different needs, and that flexibility is decisive for supply. We are also some in that it is important to focus on conversion and efficiency, but we deeply disagree that it is old-fashioned that municipalities take responsibility for good public supply before care and care. I would like to refer to the Model Municipality trial, which focused on both its users' wishes and on quality, and which showed what interaction between the populace, add and use leads with satisfaction both to the users and to the users – and even to savings. I would also like to refer to Aplan Viak's report, which is referred to in the Newspaper today, which points to hidden costs of outsourcing, both in terms of distribution, implementation and follow-up, both for the municipality and for the suppliers to provide services. It's up to 10 pst. in extra costs. I understand that Right and Hogsnes are worried about quality. My best advice to the Right, the Mayor and Hogsnes will be: commit more to ensure that the municipalities have funds according to the tasks they will do! There's the Center Party. We believe that the most important thing to ensure a better quality is actually to give the municipalities more resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e299	The left will have greater freedom of choice, including for those under public care – yes, not least for them. Quality requirements in services, consideration of individual needs and respect for human beings are fundamental to us. State and municipality are for man, not the other way around. We are clear about public responsibility for the central services, as we do in the Norwegian welfare community. But we have a pragmatic attitude towards who performs the services. We put the human being in the center, and then it's not decisive whether the provider is private or public. The left is strongly critical of the ideologies of these questions, as we see trends on both the right and the left. The problem today is not, as some socialists claim, that there is a large-scale privatisation of public services. Nor is there any dramatic use of a competitive delay in care. The problem is rather, as the interpellant argues, that old-fashioned thinking and ideological upswings from socialists and social democrats prevent many communities from trying new solutions and opening up new ones to the services themselves. For the Left, it is decisive that local authorities have this responsibility, and the ideological and practical struggles are being fought on this arena. However, it is of course important that the State facilitates non-discrimination. At the local level, it cannot, in our view, be a matter of principle whether the municipality should run hospitals and kitchen services for the elderly themselves, or whether to do so in private. This must be based on local circumstances in the particular municipality, according to costs, quality and users' interests. There may be complicated evaluations, different in each case. The State shall neither require nor prohibit municipalities from providing their services on offer. The local government shall decide for itself. Competition is not a target for the Left, but it is a means of achieving the best result. A social liberal center party asks: What is best for the user and for the total use of public resources? For us, there will be no prestige or ideological defeat attached to one solution or another. We choose the best, and it can vary from place to place, in different areas. But the situation is smooth over, not so that there is an overweight of privatisation in the country, in spite of persistent claims about this. The sneezing is quite moderate, perhaps too moderate. On the left, we might have more attempts to drop new actors. Let's see what they're good for, but let's let the public have full control.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e317	This has been an interesting debate. It has been positive, in the sense that we have a government that takes modernisation seriously, which takes the quality of public services seriously, which agrees that more user-friendly services and increased freedom of choice are important to ensure it. And one very important point for me: there is no reason that active user involvement should not also be present within publicly produced services. At the same time, in this debate, we have confirmed some of what I have carefully suggested in my first post: there are some counter-powers, forces that are more concerned with making this a debate about allowing an ever-increasing share of the country's economy to become a public economy. More money, seems to be the answer to any challenge. These are forces that will reduce people's freedom of choice, and which are charged with strengthening public monopolies, not breaking them up. The representatives Sandal and Melting Authority Kleppa referred to other trials, e.g. The model municipality test. Yes, we find interesting results in that experiment, and that's good. But why have we had these trials? I suspect that they were triggered by the fact that there were some of us who limped the loop along a slightly different axis. The municipalities themselves must choose the method they want to use! I have little sense to prohibit them from trying what they think is best for them. The representative Per Sandberg was concerned about who had been the perpetrators. I feel the urge to remember that 15-20 years ago we had a political climate for major changes here in the country, triggered by major reforms carried out by a bourgeois government. I can list a nice list of right-wing rapporteurs who have been in front of this debate for the last 10 to 15 years. So I think Sandberg and I should be able to quickly agree that these are many good contributors. For me, the representative Karin Andersen has a strange approach to the topic. Everything seems to be rule-driven. The freedom of choice shall also be limited to some formal provisions and bureaucracy. In my opinion, diversity is much, much greater in Norwegian municipalities. For me, this has been an inspiring debate. The debate shows that it is necessary to continue this work. For us today, the banal improvements in people's freedom of choice that we did for 10–15, maybe 20 years ago, formed a school. Today, it's political all-people's society. That's why the time is overdue to lift on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e332	I agree that parts of this debate have been good. Part of this debate has been characterised by a mix of user choice, choice and outsourcing. I sometimes see that there's either a lack of knowledge or a deliberate attempt to misinterpret what this is about, when it's a matter of giving a greater degree of freedom of choice. Someone's based on prejudices about what's going on. I have the advantage that I have visited some of the users who have been given user choice, and they do not tell me about the stopwatch washing. No, they say that within the approved time they have been disposed of, they have the ability to control according to what they feel is most important, precisely because this user choice has first defined how much time each individual gets. No politicians in this room, no political party, are actually going to say that you just have to pick how many hours you're going to get, and then you're going to take that money out of the municipal fund. Even Karin Andersen's party must have someone who decides what is the need for each user. But with user choice, you get freedom within it, because the control is with the individual user. If it's too square, it's also like choosing something else. I think it's a little obvious when the representative Reidar Sandal says that freedom of choice is for the rich. Yes, it is the freedom of choice that the Workers' Party allows, which is for the rich. The freedom of choice for the Workers' Party is that all those who have enough money can buy themselves outside the public sector. What we're proposing is schemes where everyone gets freedom of choice because they're within the public financial system. In particular, taking into account the alternative state budget presented by the Workers' Party, where they cut half a billion dollars in the appropriations for the existing free schools, it has been shown who is believed to have freedom of choice. It would double the parental pay at the Steinerskolan and St. Paul School and all the other Catholic schools. At that time, freedom of choice had been granted only to the rich. So even though the party is called the Workers' Party, it doesn't mean they're too free of choice for everyone. Apparently, they find it convenient to control most things. What's really the nucleus of this? Usually I don't like to suspect the motives of other parties. But after hearing Karin Andersen's question in the previous Question Time and the way she argues in the political debate in relation to who contributes to whom, I have to ask the basic question: is it the case that fundamental reforms are opposed here because they have been defined as stakeholders for the public sector trade unions? There is reason to say that, because especially other arguments against the fact that when something is approved, one can be allowed to choose, I have not heard during this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e343	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24.ana.ud683e354	There is no record.
