ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e16	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Rolf Terje Klungland from 25 October until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Kari Henriksen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before we continue the debate, the President will draw attention to the fact that an additional agenda has been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e37	The matter on the supplementary agenda will be dealt with on the basis of case No. 2 and 3 on the ordinary agenda. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e64	Norway has great opportunities. We have large natural resources, a high level of education and one of the world's best welfare societies. But it hasn't come of itself. It has come because previous generations have made important choices and have prioritised the community. Now it's our responsibility to process this further into future generations. We have room for action in the economy. Most governments and finance ministers in the world envy us. Now, the economic debate is going to focus on levels of accountability and irresponsibility and on priorities and priorities. The change of government means a clear new priority. This will be discussed first and foremost when the Government submits its supplementary proposal to the State budget, but let me begin by stating the following: the action rule will form the basis for budgetary policy. The government adds to the same use of oil money in 2006 as proposed by the Bondevik II Government. The monetary policy is determined and continued as set out in the current regulation, which focuses on both inflation, the exchange rate and employment. Over the period, the overall level of taxation from 2004 will continue. The government has set itself a great and very demanding goal for its work. The most ambitious thing is that we have set the goal of eliminating poverty in Norway. We want to put forward an overall plan to do this. In this work, the own organisations of the poor, those who wear their shoes, and professionals who know a lot about this, should be heard. Social assistance rates shall be increased and a right to welfare contracts shall be established whereby those who undertake training and work or to, for example: to implement a treatment offer, should have higher rates, against SIFOs. Other low social security benefits also need to be increased in order for all people in Norway to have the opportunity to participate in the community where people who have money are also. At the bottom of this, there has to be a fair distribution for everyone. The government has set the goal of becoming a leading country in environmental policy by Norway. No government has ever presented a more offensive environmental policy than what we have now done. A long debate on polluting gas power plants is over. We have made sure that there will be CO2 cleaning at the gas power plant at Kårstø, and that for the future it will apply to all new gas plants. In parallel, we want to invest in new renewable energy and make it competitive. The time for new large hydropower expansions is over, said a current Prime Minister once. That's right. Weaving, the last large unspoiled watercourse, will be protected. In the platform set up on Soria Moria, there is an offensive environmental policy that also shows the enormous opportunities available both in terms of industrial policy and in terms of rural policy if we look to the future through an offensive environmental policy. The Government determines that no petroleum activities are to be carried out in the areas referred to as Nordland VI. For the other sea areas outside the Lofoten and the Barents Sea, the overall management plan shall be awaited. In this context, all interested parties should be consulted. Norwegian foreign policy shall take care of Norwegian interests. It is in our interest to work for a more peaceful and democratic world order. Norway has a small voice in the world, but it must be clear and clear. Norway shall be a clear peace nation. We already have competence and international recognition in this area. The government will build on that. We will strengthen Norway's contribution to preventing, dampening and resolving conflicts peacefully. We are known as the country where the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded. It gives us a good starting point for an active role as a peace nation. We will work to strengthen the UN and further develop international law as a binding agreement for all nations. We will step up Norwegian civil and military participation in the UN peacekeeping work, with special emphasis on Africa. Participation in international military operations shall be anchored in the UN Charter and in a clear UN mandate. In Afghanistan, efforts in ISAF should be stepped up, while Norwegian participation in Operation Enduring Freedom should not be renewed. Norwegian staff and training officers will be withdrawn from Iraq. In this debate, many have invited the opposition to cooperate. I would like to repeat that, but I would also like to invite all the voters and all those who are concerned about and interested in politics, to cooperation, because if we are to manage the legacy we inherited from those who preceded us, we must be in close and close dialogue with all the people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e86	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e89	In the post to Kristin Halvorsen and in the government statement, I miss what you will actually do to improve the framework conditions for entrepreneurs in Norway, that it is worth starting up for yourself. The thing is that being self-employed in an individual enterprise is not necessarily so economically profitable compared to being in an employment relationship. Unfortunately, there are today many areas where employees and self-employed people are discriminated against. Examples are the pay guarantee scheme, employer’s fee, minimum deduction, tax-free treatment insurance, tax-free continuing education, sickness benefits, unemployment benefit, collective pension scheme. A survey by the Association of Norway’s Authorised Accounting Officers shows that self-employed workers in a single-member enterprise are penalised by up to NOK 40 000 in extra costs per year. years compared to persons in employment. If you own an individual enterprise, you have to make $80,000 more annually than a normal employee in order to be left with the same amount after tax, i.e. a law that discriminates against entrepreneurs. What will the Minister of Finance do specifically to equalise the self-employed in individual enterprises and those employed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e96	When the Government presents its additional proposal, and probably by many other crossroads in the future, we come back to the individual elements of the tax regime on which the representative was concerned. I would like to stress that the industrial policy of the Soria Moria Declaration is very offensive and forward-looking. But it is also a shift in relation to the government that has now left, because we want to take a greater public responsibility for also getting private businesses going around. In addition to the research and knowledge effort, this will be a very offensive industrial policy. I also want to underline what lies here in relation to the environment. At the intersection of environment and industrial policy there are thousands of jobs, and in that work we will also need offensive, hopeful and efficient entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e103	First, I want to congratulate Kristin Halvorsen on his appointment as Minister of Finance and the fact that she is the first woman in that position. Then it's probably in the government context only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that's the last chance in that way, but I'm not going to ask when that scandal falls. The government has stated in its declaration that it wants broad cooperation with the Stortinget. Of course, we are positive in the Christian People's Party to such an invitation. We want to be constructive also in opposition, which I believe the history of the Christian People's Party in this hall actually underpins. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that the pension agreement will be implemented, among others. to get ‘a system that society can finance in the future’. And with SV's participation in the Government, the pension agreement entered into has become even wider. My question to the Minister of Finance will then be: What elements of the future pension system does she consider to be the most important contribution to achieving such a sustainable pension scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e116	I would first like to thank Hans Olav Syversen for the line, but insist that we have plans to remove the foreign minister and replace him with a lady. On the contrary, we are very pleased – all three parties – with the efforts that have been made so far. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party wants constructive cooperation with the new majority government. And in the case of the pension agreement, the representative is right. There is a connection to the pension agreement in the Soria Moria Declaration. We're going to get back to the things that remain in terms of concreteizing them. However, as to whether this will be a sustainable pension settlement for the future, the main focus is on the future development of the labour market. Because there's one thing that's going to decide that, and that's whether people are actually wanted as labor until they're 67 years old and after that. It is an offensive policy for a more human work life that lies in the Soria Moria Declaration, and that is actually the most important answer to this reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e123	The Minister of Finance would like to eliminate poverty. Then you have to start creating jobs. She said the same thing herself. The conditions for business are important, and tax reform is central. It has added up to a more equal tax on capital and labour by raising the marginal tax on capital income and lowering it on labour income, and we have implemented it. Now the signals from the new government are that they're going to increase the marginal tax on work. This would involve a tax return for the self-employed, where the business model requires significant reductions in the top tax. I understand that the Minister of Finance is not willing or able to answer detailed questions about this today, but it would be important if she could share some thoughts with us on whether to open doorsteps of circumvention of the resources, which could transform real labour income into lower taxed capital income, and whether ordinary employees should get the bill. Or is it that the Government has planned to close this door of fiscal adjustment by significantly increasing marginal taxes on dividends? This is important for tens of thousands of jobs across the country. If we don't get an exact answer, we should like to hear some thoughts about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e130	The government is now running and is working on the changes we are going to propose in relation to the government budget presented by the government of Bondevik to the Stortinget, so the answers to all tax questions come when the supplementary proposition is presented. I don't think I'm going to stand here and think a little high about taxes, but on the contrary, shut up and work on the suggestions that are to come. But I want to stress what I had in the past, that there is a new line here considering how a government is dealing with the responsibility of contributing to value creation and employment. What is contained in the Soria Moria Declaration is a shift in line with what the bourgeois government, Mr Bondevik, said. This is a much more active industrial policy, both in terms of the ability to borrow, in terms of research, in terms of education, and in terms of travel activities. There's a lot of offensive plans there that make business feel good. But as I know Norwegian business, there are more things involved than taxes; one is also concerned about these other framework conditions. One is not least concerned with being seen and heard by a government, and sees that it is something that the whole community takes responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e137	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e140	Many have said that the change of government and the debate we now have is historic. I agree. It is also historically joyous, because at the turn of government we now have, in a way, parliamentaryism has been reintroduced into the Norwegian system of governance – that there should be coverage among the people's corps of those who are to exercise the king's power. In fact, we might say that in recent years there has been a majority behind the government, but parts of the majority have been very far behind the government. It's also historic because it provides the basis for a new course and a clear course. The election gave a majority to change the course in relation to the course of the government that was sitting. Many from the government parties have stressed that our basis is to create and share. It is in line with the best traditions in the Workers' Party. Already when the government statement was presented, we saw the first happy results of the page about creating. In Westfold it was a joy. Hundreds, maybe fifteen hundred, employees in the ferry companies saved their jobs simply because of the government change. Elsewhere in Westfold and in other counties, brewers are cheering because there is a basis for continuing their jobs – because there was a government change. We know that the Government also warns of an offensive, innovative industrial policy that takes it seriously. When we create values, it's important that they are distributed fairly. I heard former councillor Solberg, Erna Solberg, had a visit to former councillor Solberg, Hill-Marta Solberg, in a change of words earlier today. Then I came to think of a visit during the election campaign at a great nursing home in Holmestrand. It was newly built, modern and pleasant for those who are going to live there, and easy for those who are going to work there. It was built because of a reform that was carried out on the proposal of former councillor Solberg, Hill-Marta Solberg. But in that nursing home they had little staff. They had stepped down the crew, in addition to having cut off the home sickle in the same municipality, in Holmestrand, because they later got another Solberg, Erna Solberg, as the municipal minister. It says something about the difference in politics from the government that was, to the government that has come now. In Holmestrand they now get 8 million. kr more than last year, and the difference between the new and old government is well 5 million. kr to take care of old and sick. It's a set of clear, selected priorities. These are priorities, because when it has been cut in public care in recent years, it is not because Norway has had little money. We have spent more money in Norway than ever. Former Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss will be standing as the ‘big spender’ of the oil fund. But that money has been used to provide tax relief, instead of producing more well-being. When I sat here and listened to the debate, I came to think that when I'm at the store in Reply City on Saturdays, I meet some people who would like to have things taken up. Then they come and say that we should now have had several more kroner for the hospital home at home – even if it is good for us. We should have had a little bit more for the care of the elderly, for home-based care at all, or maybe we should have taken a little more of our school buildings, had better advice for teachers, had better teaching material and perhaps spent even more on the weakest in school. When I think about it, I've never felt that people have come to me at the store in Reply City and said that now the jam needs the richest here in the village a few more dollars. It's not where the priorities go out among ordinary people. That's this election result is a clear expression. The right went to the election to continue giving tax credits. We went to the elections to provide better well-being, as an alternative to that tax haven. It is therefore gratifying to note that those who might be concerned about the fact that the few in my country would receive even more tax relief have had their government. Now it's the turn of the others, the ones who've had to wait the last four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e156	First, let me say that it is an honour to take the pulpit of the national parliament as an elected representative of big business. We have conducted an election campaign with many issues. The voters have spoken, and despite the fact that a majority of the voters actually voted on the Progress Party and the three previous government parties, we have, in the context of our electoral system, received a majority in this Chamber consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party. We have thus also received a change of government, in which the three parties mentioned by majority have formed their government. Option-lifts are now to be met. In the light of the Government declaration by Soria Moria, the country shall be governed and the promises made. One of the main things that has been flagged in the statement is that no more tax relief is to be provided. Even back to the level of 2004 and thus continue the overall level of taxation applicable to 2004. This means, therefore, that the reliefs adopted for 2005 and the new proposed reliefs for the coming years should be removed. In other words, there will be an increase in taxes and taxes. It is in itself, in my opinion, a little thoughtful policy. I also wonder whether the sharper taxes and charges will stop there, or whether the Norwegian people can have more in store. A number of promises of new and better welfare services are likely to be attempted. With virtually no focus on improving the efficiency of the public sector, we will soon have a situation in which adjusting the overall level of taxation to that of 2004 would not be sufficient to meet promises. I fear that a red-green government could quickly resort to new tax increases. And the people will be vacated by the majority that has been given in the Storting for the next four years. Tax policy is important. It is not that giving considerable relief in taxes and taxes to people most is what you do to be nice, but in the opinion of the Progress Party, this makes sense. By not including as much in taxes and taxes as the new majority can add up to, we stimulate people to increase labour input. By providing significant tax cuts, we allow the people to retain more of their labour income and have the opportunity to control their own lives more. The alternative is that politicians control people's wallet too much. Reduced taxes and taxes also make sense to influence increased investment and stimulate increased business activity in the country. If it becomes more reasonable to invest in jobs in Norway, we will be able to provide the basis for more people to get into work. And if we give big tax cuts, most people will get a simpler everyday life, for example. in respect of the necessary expenditure incurred by households. Another main thing the government has announced in its statement is that the growth in free income for our municipalities and county municipalities will be SEK 5.4 billion in 2006. When you read this in the statement, this can be heard well and good for many. However, the problem is to give the impression that such an increase in the free income of the municipal sector will automatically lead to better quality and more services in that sector. There's no automation in it. When these funds are given as free income, it is not certain that municipalities employ more people in the care sector or more teachers. It will be up to the municipalities how they want to give priority to an increase in the free income. So once the government has promised the inhabitants more hands in the heavy sectors of the municipalities, you can see that very little of the impression you've created becomes a reality. The Promotion Party is committed to strengthening care for the elderly, the municipal health services and the school. Today, responsibility has been added to the municipalities. Free revenues do not guarantee that any of these sectors will be strengthened. In the opinion of the Progress Party, therefore, we need direct earmarked funding for the individual user of these services, so that people can be guaranteed the services they require and expect. Finally, I would like to say that I noticed the closing words of the Prime Minister in yesterday's presentation. The Prime Minister was ready for the Government not to do as it pleases. On the contrary, the Prime Minister invited a great deal of cooperation to improve Norway over the next four years. He made it clear that no government can do it alone. It will be exciting to see how this will be followed up by our new government. Whether this means that the government wants to cooperate only as long as it itself premises, or whether it will respond to proposals that the opposition promotes, remains to be seen. It's actually quite crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e179	There is a broad consensus on the development potential in the northern regions, and North Norway is today characterised by optimism. Business goes well, and jobs are created like never before. I am unscrupulous enough to give the departed government the main credit for this development. A responsible economic policy, together with offensive oil policy in the north, has laid the foundations for new attractive jobs, including: in the field of oil and gas activities. The outgoing government had a clear ambition for sustained, higher activity in the Barents Sea within an environmentally sound framework. The overall management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside Lofoten will, where available, provide a basis for clarification of new exploration areas. The highest petroleum technology combined with the most stringent environmental requirements in the world shows that we do not want to gamble with the environment. The West has experienced the oil and gas adventure. The trip had come to North Norway, I thought. After reading the political platform from Soria Moria and hearing the Declaration of Accession, I don't feel as sure. The wording of the chapter on energy policy is characterised by many reservations. It's positive that the government will complete the 19th concession round, but what about the continuation, round 20? It does not respond to the platform and the statement. And what kind of signal is it to North Norway when the Minister for the Environment today has given suspensive effect to the search drilling on Goliath, which is approved by the SFT? Regular activity in the Barents Sea over time requires ongoing organisation for new concession rounds. The closure of Nordland VI, before receiving the management plan for treatment in a short time, is an obvious concession to SV. Throughout the election campaign, the Nordic population received insurance from the working party that they would not negotiate oil and gas policy. But isn't that exactly what happened now? Stoltenberg has set up a permanent centre party to control the Ministry of Oil and Energy and has left the Ministry of Environmental Protection to an SV running with all the brakes on in the policy of petroleum. Many people probably remember Heidi Sørensen from SV, now the fractional leader of the Energy and Environment Committee, who got stuck in protest against the Snow White plant. When the two most defensive parts of the Government are set to determine the progress of the oil and gas sector, there is every cause for concern. Therefore, the Workers' Party is now facing a significant challenge within the Government. It is about the credibility of the Workers' Party in a matter where the party has always been to trust. It may seem that the party has made bad friends in the government. A welfare society like the Norwegian one does not come about by itself. Had the resistance and reservations against oil drilling in the North Sea been as strong as against oil drilling in the Barents Sea, we would probably never have started in the South. We had also not had a well-filled pension fund and the well-being we experience in Norway today. Oil and gas activities therefore need to be further developed based on knowledge, not emotions — in the north as in the south. The Russians' operations in the north have now come to stay. No matter what we do on the Norwegian side, there's full speed on Shtokman. What, then, is the logic that Norway should stay away from the Barents Sea? It would deprive us of the possibility of setting Norwegian standards on environmental measures and weakening the chances of delivery from Norwegian and Norwegian oil industries linked to Russian-side expansions. The government has to decide. Half-hearted action in the north doesn't last! For those who want to bet within oil and gas, long-termity is a ‘must’. Therefore, the Prime Minister, who was in Tromsø and gave assurances of a continued offensive petroleum policy in the north, should even ensure that this promise is fulfilled. It costs a little bit compared to what we're going to get again. It would probably also bring the SV closer to fulfilling its electoral promise of 10,000 more Nordics by 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e202	Governments will build their policies on governments and community solutions. We assume that life is lived locally and that good, living and vibrant local environments are to be cultivated. We create good local environments through people's commitment, people want to give something to the local environment that they're part of. But it is also a fact that policy has an important role to play in setting a framework. A living local democracy demands that local elected representatives have freedom of action, that they have real power and authority, and that they also have to have money to carry out the tasks they are assigned to. Municipalities take care of many of the tasks that are most important in our everyday lives. The quality of school, the quality of care for the elderly, the power of local sports and culture depend on what the community economy looks like. The government is taking this seriously. Our goal is that during this ageing period we should be able to find the fine balance that must be between the problems that you have locally, and the money that you have at your disposal. That's why we're going to have a stepping-up plan for the municipalities in place, and we're already taking a big hold on the first budget that we're going to present, the adjusted budget. In 2006, municipalities will have DKK 5.4 billion more in free income than they had in 2005. There will be more teachers of it, there will be more hands to care for, and there will be more life in the local cultural life of it. In order to find this fine balance point that lies between tasks and money, we need to have a more binding consultation arrangement between the state and the municipalities. We will do that to find the level of money, but we will also have to do it to help ensure the quality of the service. More money for the municipalities is needed. But you're also going to hear us talk at least as much about ensuring the quality of the services. The government has less faith in the market and competition than the previous government. We have more faith in cooperation with the staff to provide the services. We know that it is possible to use the experience they have that is actually closer to those who are the users of public services, thus helping to ensure quality. You're also going to hear a lot about freedom of choice. However, we do not put any similarity between privatisation and outsourcing of competition and freedom of choice. We're going to talk about freedom of choice in good public solutions for health and care. We have many major tasks ahead of us in the area of regional policy. We're going to be able to define what the new regional level is going to look like during the next ageing period. There's going to be a lot of shrieks and shrieks and rabids. The starting point is that there is a sea of investigations there about how to organise the levels of government. The time has come for decisions to be taken. There will be three levels of government. We're going to go through the process of defining how we're going to be able to decentralize power from the state and closer to people. We're going to get to the problems first, we're going to agree on which problems to move closer to people, and then we're going to sit down and define the map and see what it's going to look like. This is going to be a demanding job, but it's going to be an exciting job, and it's absolutely necessary that we now get to grips with it. The government has told us to conduct a district policy reverse operation. It's necessary. That's a lot to say about. We need to take specific action to address the classic instruments in the field of district policy. But most importantly, we should take as a starting point that all our government councils should think of district policy within their sectoral areas. There must be a regional policy perspective on school, on health, on transportation, on the whole package. In this way, we will be able to take the commitment of district policy. That way, we're going to be able to give people freedom of choice even in relation to where they're going to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e219	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e222	I record that around the counties there are strong cuts in the route supply to the inhabitants. I record that businesses around the district — and in particular the transport industry — are striving hard to be able to catch fire on their operations. In my view, the main reason for this is a significant increase in fuel prices. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Will the Council of State take advantage of its position within the Government to make sure that the state reduces fuel taxes, so that business around the districts and people can get a route that is good?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e229	There is no doubt that the question raised by the representative Starheim is a question that many people are concerned about. One will also know that the government has large revenues per year. today attached to this field. Making dramatic changes in fuel prices will have a number of consequences in many areas. We'll come back to this kind of question in connection with the state budget. But let me underline one important thing that we're concerned about, and that's that we're going to ensure fuel balancing schemes. It will be important for very many – not least many businesses around the district of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e236	The Haga Council pointed to specific measures in the field of district policy. It sounds promising. The most specific grip that was outlined in the election campaign was the relocation of jobs from Oslo – a total of 6,000 were heard. We also heard in an interview in Nettavisen that the Centre Party promised to be specific about who this was in the election campaign. In retrospect, we can see that LO's clumsy, but caring hand has laid on the Center Party's shoulders. In the document currently available, there are only a few general points left. My question to the Haga Council of State is: can we now expect that the relocation of state jobs is also an instrument, and can perhaps the Haga Council say something more if we can expect this to be of some extent? And then finally, I remember when we moved out the new inspections, it was applauded by the Center Party. But there was a critical remark that many of these inspections went to big cities. Does Haga think that emigration will take place to small places scattered across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e245	Yes, the relocation of state jobs is an instrument in the field of district policy. It's been used before. What's on the platform from Soria Moria is actually relatively offensive despite what the representative Thommessen here says. Our platform says that new state jobs should be established outside Oslo. In fact, if you just look at the story, between 2001 and 2003, there were over 2,300 new jobs in Oslo. If you had chosen to put these outside of Oslo, one would already have come a good way on the move. We also have to evaluate the emigration that has taken place. I think that's good, because there I think you'll see that the emigration stories are very successful. Take the court administration to Trondheim, take the Polar Institute to Tromsø, etc. We're going to evaluate, we're going to go through it, and then we're going to look at which jobs can be moved out later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e254	I want to go a little bit further on the theme that was in the last line. There is no doubt that the relocation of supervision carried out by the co-operation administration will have an enormous impact on the construction of a new environment of competence and the safeguarding of existing ones. In the election campaign, the Central Party was very clear that state-owned jobs should be moved out of Oslo. Rightly, it would happen voluntarily, but if I understood correctly, it would be solved by giving central labour party politicians a little adult training course in London. Now I'm not so convinced anymore. After the strong statements from both LO and others that this is not going to happen, the LLO-Worker Party Cooperation Committee will take care of this, I have become somewhat in doubt. Can the State Council confirm that this project is not on ice, and is still working on providing a wax training course, so that the project with the relocation of state workplaces can really continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e263	It's quite right, as the representative Sørfonn says, that the Center Party has been concerned that when we're going to move state jobs out, we're going to put ourselves on a volunteer line. We've thought that it's a much wiser approach than the coercive line that the Bondevik II government agreed to. I've been to London to learn how to run voluntary relocation of state jobs. Now the prime minister is going to London next week, so maybe he can also take a turn on that theme when he's going to have conversations there. We're going to implement what's in the government platform, the Soria Moria statement. Had the Center Party been alone in government, it might have looked a little different, but we've found good compromises in this area as well. We're going to place new state jobs outside Oslo as far as it's possible. We're going to evaluate, and we're going to start by taking care of things and seeing what can be moved out, and I don't think there'll be any alternative to thinking in a direction of volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e272	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e276	Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has given important signals about a new policy desired by the voters. Together with a new majority of the Grand Duchy, the content of the policy shall be changed. The value base of Soria Moria warns a policy based on justice and community. Norway is the society of opportunity. The primary resource of society is the individual human being. The voters have chosen work for all and common well-being over new tax reliefs. The government has declared that there should be no poverty in Norway — a very high and extremely demanding ambition when we know that work and well-being are inextricably linked and that more than 900,000 are more or less out of employment. We know a lot about who the poor are. We also know a good deal about the causes of poverty. Sometimes it's about help breaking the social heritage, sometimes it's about being allowed to show that you have something to contribute to. One can discuss the definition of poverty and get more or less poor as, cf. the last day's media debate on the definition to be 50 pst. or 60 pst. of the median income. The danger is that this will end up in an academic exercise that backs up what is the basic problem, namely qualification for participation. Combating poverty has often been a far too one-sided discussion of the size of social aid rates, which may result in the poverty of the poor. But through the Soria Moria declaration, the government parties have expanded the ideological platform in the poverty debate. All people shall have an actual right to find their place in society by contributing to the creation of value. Participation in society is not just about access to a minimum of money, it's also about social community – someone who needs you to come. We may not think so much about it in the day-to-day, but we notice it the more the day no one asks. So when we talk about creating and sharing, the most important right is the one that gives the right to create. The trade mark of Social Democracy has always been: Do your duty, demand your right. This two-sidedness is reflected in the Government's very important reform proposals on welfare contracts. By contract to participate in training, work, treatment, etc. can be ensured at the rates of the State Institute for Consumer Research. The welfare contract has the two-sidedness in itself: providing as capacity, few as necessary. At the same time, society sends out an important signal: we need the potential for value creation that you possess. A lot of time has been spent discussing new welfare settings with a focus on systems and schemes. Now the time has come to shift focus to the real job: solving rigid, state-based legislation and allowing the competence of the first line to be given an opportunity to put in place a qualification system that works. There are actually some sunshine stories. In my own municipality, Drammen, three relatively young men were given an opportunity through a sprawling layer between Aetat, social services and nature management. They had been available since 1991, 1993 and 1998. The three restored old living room at Kinnerud farm, stoned dams at Stegla, snow-creed new stands at Marienlyt Stadium, cleared wood, built lowage for kindergartens, planted and cleared forest, straightened up highways, repaired flood-damaged bridges, produced 4,000 sacks and 30 flags by. They liked, got stronger self-esteem, got more to walk with, did good work for the forest service and the sports section, said the employer in the municipality of Drammen. They contributed to the creation of value in the community. Two of them today have a regular job, one has bought Mercedes, and they can give gifts to the grandchildren. This is a welfare contract in practice that works, and further arguments for an excellent scheme are really superfluous.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e297	Following the implementation of the Reform 94 for Higher Education, one of the main reasons for the reform has been the high level of professional studies in general. So the theory part has been too extensive, and it reduces the possibility for many students to complete an advanced course that ends up in the expected competence. Now the Government announces that a thirteen-year school run will provide general study competence regardless of line selection. In my opinion, this can be achieved in two ways. Either by further increasing the general field of vocational education at the expense of the professional sector, which in practice will close many more out of secondary education because the theoretical requirements become unnecessary to many, and many more will cancel or have second-class qualifications. Or it can be achieved by reducing the requirement of what is expected from general study competence. In this case, it will lead to a significant reduction in quality compared to what is required for admission to higher education today. Of course, it could also end up with some combination of both of these models, but in any case, the consequences will be the same. Our main competitive advantage over our international competitors is the ability to invest in world-class knowledge and skills, and it will be greatly weakened. In this way, both the possibility of professional recruitment and the ability of professionals to acquire full competence in their own field of competence and the level of higher education will be reduced. This is a step in a very dangerous direction, and it stands out clearly in relation to the content statement that the Government has said it should follow up. This also complicates the relationship to lower-level competence for many students in vocational education. But it is positive that the Government will continue the main part of the quality reform. An important part of the quality reform has been to follow the development that we have elsewhere in Europe, where efforts in languages have been significantly strengthened. In a world that is getting smaller and where cross-border contact is the rule rather than the exception for Norwegian jobs, the Government will remove the proposed other foreign language in primary school. Here one might think of an alternative solution, where one would rather remove the compulsory secondary education and replace it with another foreign language, but I note that the government believes it is out-of-date policy, unfortunately. In Aftenbladet.no on 15 October you could also read the reaction from Unio's leader, Anders Folkestad. He says, among other things:\t\t You can «The commitment to research and knowledge remains a red thread in the Government Declaration, as an instrument for strengthening competitiveness and job creation. In view of this, it seems strange that they propose to weaken language competence in high school and weaken the requirements for study competence.» And on the other hand, ‘The need for foreign language knowledge will not be reduced.’ I couldn't say much better myself. It is not always Unio's leader, Anders Folkestad, with particular luck can be quoted by a party representative from this pulpit. When the party of progress last autumn joined the then government parties and got extended the law of free school to include secondary education, this was after many years of fighting, which was finally crowned with victory for students and parents. Then the students were given the legal right to choose school, regardless of who would own the school, and the state would support this choice financially. It has meant that parents and students now actually have a real freedom of choice between public schools and in-house schools. It is no longer just parents with thick wallets who can make choices for their children. We in the Progress Party would like to increase this percentage from 85 pst. until 100 pst., but it has not yet been passed on. That's why it's very sad that the government is now signaling that they're going to destroy the students who have chosen to take advantage of the post-secondary offer in primary or secondary school, and to reverse this, so that in the future there will only be the students who have parents with thicker wallets than the people most, who are going to have freedom of choice. This is a political turnaround that won't bring any benefits to public schools, but it will lead to a total battlepage for students' freedom of choice. That's too bad. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, had an engaged post in which he told us that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre had been given a clear mandate from the voters to steer in a different direction. He said it with such great commitment that I almost began to believe in it myself. But that is not quite right, because it is therefore a non-socialist majority of the people, but it is the electoral system that has made sure that we have now had a change of government. I don't know if there's anything to boast about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e325	Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg finally said in his speech to the Stortinget that the Government has not intended to do as it wills, despite having a majority behind it. The government invites to cooperate, and the Prime Minister made clear an open position. It's positive. The Christian People's Party would like to be active with and influence politics for the next four years. Christian People's Party is a center party. We want to be part of and build broad alliances to create a good society built on our Christian cultural heritage, with values like fair distribution, community and human dignity. The government statement presented by the government of Stoltenberg contains a lot of positive and many formulations that can be easily agreed with. In particular, the Government's objectives of combating poverty at home in Norway and internationally. The Christian People's Party is concerned with fair distribution and agrees that the fight against poverty and for the right to economic development, democracy, human rights and sustainable development are the biggest challenge facing the world community. We want to participate and form a broad political consensus on a more offensive and targeted aid policy. In other areas too, the Christian People's Party can stand behind the Government's objectives and say yes to the Prime Minister's invitation to make recordings and support in the work of the Stortinget. This is the case in environmental policy, in a number of health and care issues, not least in relation to local democracy and the economy of municipalities and the ability to perform important welfare tasks such as kindergarten, care for the elderly and school. The Christian People's Party will support the work of a strong and healthy community economy. For the Christian People's Party, the content of politics is important, and we want to be open and active in finding good solutions for the country. We will be constructive. Both the Government's Declaration of Accession and the Prime Minister's speech yesterday have a number of transparent and general formulations, objectives that need to be concrete and met with content. The Christian People's Party will be active and constructive in that work. An example of this is the wording of the Government Declaration on tax deductions for gifts to non-governmental organisations. The Norwegian population stands up, cares and becomes involved. It is reflected in the good emergence of non-governmental organisations, teams and associations. The Christian People's Party wants a social development that means that we take care of and further develop the work that through generations is carried out by idealism. The public must cooperate with the voluntary actors. Under the Cooperative Government, the system of tax deductions was introduced and the amount limit has increased sharply. There is no doubt that tax-deducted gifts strengthen the income base of the voluntary sector. The declaration states that the country’s new government will retain the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations. That's good. But what does that actually mean? Does this mean that the Government will freeze the aid at 2005 level, or will the Government be more offensive and support the proposal in the State budget to increase the framework to 15 000? Can Freedom Norway count on an offensive attitude to escalate further in the coming state budget during the period? The Christian People's Party has expectations that the Government sees the value of the great hard work in voluntary organizations, and that they do more than freeze the amount of the tax deduction. Another example in which the Christian People's Party wants to be involved in filling formulations with concrete content is the question of the training of children and young people in faith. It is stated in the statement that the Government will continue and evaluate the faith training reform – and that is good. But does that mean that the Government will participate in the planned stepping-up plan for the reform of CSR, or is it to be continued, evaluated and frozen at today's level? The Christian People's Party expects the Government to listen to recordings. We expect that the formulation of continuing schemes does not mean anything passive, does not mean freezing, but that we can count on active and offensive voluntary policies. In short, we are pleased with the invitation to cooperation and we expect to be listened to when round formulations of the Declaration of Accession are to be made concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e347	That the representative Tørersdal and the Christian People's Party have a great heart for both growth conditions and care for the elderly, there is no doubt. But it can often be said that the Christian People's Party is more concerned with the local government's right to prioritize than with ensuring a worthy care for the elderly and a good school. I hope that the representative Tørersdal can confirm that also for the Christian People's Party satisfactory service production in the municipalities is the most important, not who performs these services, and who grants the money for these services. So we know that during this period the Christian People's Party will lose the fight to maintain the county, to the benefit of the regions to which the Government puts up. Then I ask, how will the Christian People's Party address this issue? Would you like to work for a real power transfer primarily to the municipalities, or would you like to support the Government that these regions will become overgrown county municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e359	The Christian People's Party is occupied with local democracy. We're busy filling local democracy with tasks. We're going to decentralize tasks from state to municipality. And we're going to have three popular government levels. What is important for the Christian People's Party is to give the municipalities economic space to carry out the welfare tasks assigned to the municipalities. We are not losing any battle, but we are actively participating in the exciting debate that is now going to take place when we are going to have a new arrangement. We're going to bring down the county, but we're going to create a new regional level. And we'll help make it a political popularly elected controlled level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e366	It is with interest that I hear the representative's tribute to the situation of the voluntary sector because of the possibility of spending the support that is provided to it. I have been working in the voluntary sector for the last two and a half years, and I have to admit that my impression from the practical everyday life is something different than it is given the impression here. The voluntary sector in Norway has been exposed to cuts in national schemes, for example: anti-racist work, integration work or humanitarian work, including in the areas of professional activity, in the form of competitive outsourcing and piercing, for example. the revenues of non-governmental organisations operating refugees to pursue a good integration policy. So I don't recognize myself in the picture that's being described. But my question is really more about the good posts of the representative on local democracy. The question is simply: the municipality of Sandnes comes out with 29 million. kr. more with the arrangement of the new government for the local economy than with that of the outgoing government. Would it be good for the inhabitants of Sandnes that we have changed the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e375	As a wholesaler, and as the only wholesaler representing Sandnes, who lives in the municipality of Sandne in Rogaland, I would like to say that it is clear that every krone entering the municipal register in Sandnes will be a krone that can be used for increased well-being and a better school in Sandnes. So, of course, I'm happy to do that on behalf of the municipality of Sandne. As far as the municipality of Sandne is concerned, I would like to say that we have some challenges in terms of growth municipalities. It costs to have children and young people, and Sandnes is rich in children and young people, but poor in crowns to solve welfare problems. We have to do something about the income system. Then the municipality of Sandne has an opportunity to introduce property taxes. The Christian People's Party in Sandnes wants that, but there is no majority in the local government to increase the income in terms of contributions from the municipality's own residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e382	In the election campaign in Rogaland, there was a Christian People's Party voter who said that when Halvorsen and Langeland come into position, Sodom and Gomorrah will come quickly. Now I am listening to this representative from the Christian People's Party that she is actually quite impressed with much of what this government statement expresses, among other things. in relation to the fight against poverty, in relation to the community and in relation to the reduction of differences between people. It was simply the opposite of one with Bondevik II in position: the differences increase, poverty increases – at all, a deterioration in what the Christian People's Party now boasts about the red-green alternative. Is it so to understand that the Christian People's Party is now actually getting the impression of more of its policy with the red-green government than they did when they put themselves in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e389	For the Christian People's Party, it is always important to be concerned with combating poverty. I want to say two things about it, one in answer to the question. We have always prioritised poverty internationally as the most important issue for the Christian People's Party. That's where we got a hit. Assistance has increased considerably in the last four years, but it is definitely not good enough. And as oil revenues increase to the country, it is natural that the aid increase will continue, and we will contribute to a broad support for it. We think that the government statement has a lot of good in terms of assistance. In terms of well-being and poverty in our own country, wealth has increased considerably in Norway, and the difference between poor and rich has increased. It's mainly because we've become a lot richer. It challenges us as politicians. It will always be important for the Christian People's Party to combat poverty. Those who need it the most will have targeted actions. We will be doing that and contribute to it even in the precipitation period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e399	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e402	The working party will maintain the value creation, employment and competence of the petroleum industry at a high level. The Soria Moria Declaration also underlines this, and it provides a good basis for further development of the industry. We will maintain exploration activity for oil and gas, and the oil industry must have access to interesting exploration sites. An offensive north-eastern strategy will provide Norway with a better starting point to engage Russia, the United States and the EU in stronger cooperation on, inter alia, maritime safety and oil protection. Petroleum activities in the Barents Sea and in the Norwegian Sea shall be the world's foremost in relation to oil protection and environmental monitoring. Norway must participate in the development of petroleum activities in the north in close cooperation with Russia. Norway shall lead the world in this field in terms of technology and the environment. A diversity of state and private actors — small and large — is necessary to achieve this objective. There are high expectations for the 19th round of the concession. It is therefore important that this be finalised as foreseen, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. This concession round includes many blocks in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. Where the overall management plan is available, for the other sea areas outside the Lofoten and northwards, including the Barents Sea, the areas to be opened and the areas in which no petroleum activity is to be carried out shall be determined. This shall be determined here in Stortinget. No petroleum activity shall be started in Northern Ireland VI during this flooding period. A priority task in the future will be to increase field extraction efficiency, while reducing environmentally hazardous emissions from the petroleum industry. In the Barents Sea, the activity shall be based on the zero emission target at sea. A prerequisite for succeeding in increased extraction rates and more environmentally friendly activities is research. The working party and the new government will take a greater share of the natural gas extracted on a Norwegian base, in domestic use for industrial, energy and transport purposes. The government's objective is that Norway is the world leader in the environmentally friendly use of gas. The production of gas must take place within the Kyoto Agreement’s obligations and must be part of the international allowance system which ensures that total emissions do not increase. Natural power has started the expansion of the gas power plant at Kårstø. The Soria Moria declaration states that this work will continue and that the gas power plant will be completed in the autumn of 2007. Furthermore, efforts to establish a full-scale CO2 removal plant in Kårstø will be undertaken and the State will contribute financially to this. The aim is for the removal of CO2 by 2009 to allow the use of this new pressure support for new areas in the North Sea. If it becomes appropriate to apply the given gas power station concessions to Forests and Kollsnes, CO2 removal shall also be contributed to these. This is also where the State is going to enter. By means of economic instruments and by investing in new technologies, we will ensure that new gas power plant concessions are based on CO2 removal. Norwegian cap may be a landfill site for large amounts of CO2, and CO2 may be used to get more oil and gas out of the socket. In addition to contributing to the major environmental challenges, the development of the CO2 chain, as the political majority now argues, can be the beginning of an important and epoch-setting industrial development in Norway. Therefore, a State company will be responsible for the transport and injection of CO2 – the State will contribute financially to the establishment of this company. I am therefore very pleased, on behalf of the Labour Party, with the fullness of the oil and gas policy that the new government is now proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e443	Throughout the election campaign, the parties that are currently part of the new government promised an increased commitment to the primary welfare area. In particular, care services should be given a boost. That is why the Government has now committed itself to a strong expansion of these services. The government has, among other things: set out a clear objective of employing 10,000 more people in the care of the elderly. These are good ambitions that the Progress Party welcomes. Nevertheless, it must be allowed to ask questions about how these objectives are to be achieved. Because even though the Government signals a greater economic space for the municipalities, which is currently responsible for the production of precisely these services, there is actually no guarantee that a strengthened municipal economy automatically means more hands in the care of the elderly. On the contrary, the Government will be released the assessments made by the 433 local government of the nation. Although the government actually manages to raise the municipality's free revenues by DKK 5.4 billion from 2006, and if this escalates further over the years that come, as promised, each municipality is the sovereign in relation to how these funds are used. There is every reason to believe that many beautiful cultural buildings, concert halls and bathlands will be built in this nation over the next four years. Yes, perhaps even there is money to fill the baths with water. But the Progress Party is not as sure that care for the elderly will have the economic promise it really needs. Past experience shows with all clarity that the priorities in the municipalities can often be quite different from those desired by this room. In practice, there are as many different ways to apply the free increases in income as there are municipalities in this Kingdom. The free revenues of municipalities should therefore be considered a very lowly appropriate instrument for achieving clear objectives, such as: 10 000 more hands in the care of the elderly. The main problem of the government in this area is that it lacks the tools it needs to achieve its stated objectives, for example. in the care of the elderly. There is little help in increasing the free income of municipalities in order to improve the provision of care for the elderly if local authorities choose to use the funds in other areas. Unfortunately, only the Progress Party is taking the consequences. In order to ensure the financing of basic welfare goods such as care for the elderly in a targeted and predictable way, the entire funding system for what is a municipal service today needs to be reworked. The state must take direct financial responsibility. The money must follow the user in the same way as you see inside, for example. The fear of the people. When the need for a service arises, the state's payment for the service must automatically take place according to a differentiated price model, as we wish, without first having to go through a municipal budget. That way you're sure of more things. The right to basic well-being of citizens is guaranteed regardless of the priorities and economic situation of each municipality. And then you might achieve the most important of all: you get a situation where supply and demand meet. It is important to remember that municipalities are a means of producing important and fundamental well-being for the population of this country. They're not a goal in itself. If the Government is to have the opportunity to make serious commitments in this area, it is imperative that it also make major changes to the funding system. The party of progress should be happy to agree to the good solutions that the government needs to achieve. We're going to be helpful in giving the government the tools it obviously lacks. What should in any case be clear and beyond doubt is that continued growth in the free income of municipalities does not in any way guarantee an improvement in the basic welfare provision of the population, either on a scale or in quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e460	I have been to a number of Treaty and accession debates in Stortinget. But this is actually one of the most peaceful I've ever been to. It fully indicates that there is no overall opposition at this level, and the opposition that exists is relatively provocative today. It is possible that a person is a little lazy back and wants to let the government stay at work for a while, and that is a sympathetic matter if that is what it is about. But otherwise I have to say that I really miss the slightly visionary contributions from the opposition on what kind of alternative social model and social view you have. There are two things I want to grasp that this government has raised high, and that is an important line shift in Norwegian policy. One is in environmental policy, and it is so essential that it actually provides the basis of life for future generations not only in our country, but in fact throughout the world. I belonged to my apprehension that the former municipal minister, who is head of the Right, during the election campaign stated that because CO2 cleaning is not economically profitable today, you shouldn't do that, seams in the world's richest country, which has a lot of money we've just earned to take up a product that produces CO2 and that hurts us if we don't handle it differently than today. Yes, we should not dry out having a slightly higher sky over Norwegian policy today than that what is not economically profitable today, we cannot think of doing! I am very pleased that this government has taken the step that has been taken now, to find a solution that might perhaps be the simple approach of environmental policy that can actually be the great contribution to our being able to deal with climate problems in the future. It seems to me that the opposition has not understood how important this step is and can be actually for the whole world. The second important point is combating poverty, both at home and outside. I know it will be difficult, but this government has a completely different approach to it than the previous government. First of all, this government assumes that the economic differences have to decrease, because we know that the economic dynamics of society are such that the ones that have the most are getting more almost automatically. Then it's incredibly important that we have a policy that makes sure to reduce the gap and lift those that have the least. So this government wants to bet on many more to get into work. In this respect, changes need to be made both in the labour market and in the provision of training and action, qualification and follow-up provided, because it is not a problem. So there must be a lot of and a quality of these offers that makes people who are not currently competing well in the labour market and who are excluded have the opportunity to enter the labour market that is today, because it is actually quite demanding, both health and competence. Then we're going to succeed in that, and we want that, it means a completely different effort in that area. And there has to be a rise in the benefits of those who have the least. When we dealt with the NAV reform in ours, the Health and Social Directorate had a hearing on the NAV reform that pointed out quite correctly that it is actually the level of benefits that in itself creates poverty. What I think most of us understand, is that when the bill pile grows far above the ears, and you don't see the light in the tunnel, it's a little hard to fathom, start an education, get ready to be presentable and ready to go into the workplace. That's why it's so important that we do all three things at once, and it's also about giving dignity. For I am of those who are happy to work, and I have grown up in the culture where the work was a noble mark. But I want us to watch ourselves to put a negative stamp on those who can't do this, and it's an important characteristic of the Norwegian welfare state that we have welfare systems that work for those who can't be at work. It's not wrong that people use such arrangements, they should be there when people need them, and it's important that those arrangements are at such a level that people have dignity in their lives and can participate in social life in line with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e481	At the opening of this debate, the Prime Minister showed that two of the three new government parties had experience of working together historically, and referred back to the crisis settlement between the then Bond Party and the Workers' Party in 1935. It commented on the Prime Minister as follows: this was ‘the beginning of a long period of Labour Party rule’. That is historically correct, but I would recommend that the two junior partners in the new government meditate for a long time on this historical fact. It might have some topicality in today's situation as well. Otherwise, the Prime Minister has stressed that the advantage of a majority rule is that it will be marked by long-termity and clarity, unlike minority parliamentarism, which leads to too much political ‘games’, it is said. But this is only right under one condition, namely that the majority government agrees with each other so politically that it really becomes clear in its policy. And this with the political game is at best a ambiguous gain, because if the difference is that the political game is moved into the closed spaces instead of that it takes place in the open room of the Storting, there is at least for most people no significant gain, because it makes the opportunity to follow along and gain insight into the political compromises that are happening less than before. At least there is no progress in democratic terms. The Government Declaration states: ‘The pillars of our international commitment will be our membership of NATO, the EEA Agreement and the fact that Norway is not a member of the EU.’ I find it a little difficult to imagine how non-membership of the EU can be a supporter of international engagement, but I have to leave that to the government parties to interpret themselves. But what's troubling is that at all three points that are said here to be the pillars of Norwegian foreign policy, everyone knows that the three government parties disagree with each other. One of the three government parties first writes in its programme that NATO is irrelevant and they have promised to work for Norway to withdraw from NATO. With regard to the EEA Agreement, two of the three Governmental Parties have promised their voters to terminate this Agreement. And in the case of non-membership in the EU, everyone who has joined us knows that there is also a clear dividing line in the Government between the largest party and the two smallest parties. It is difficult to understand how this should be a good basis for long-term and clarity in foreign policy. Let me make it clear: in terms of NATO cooperation, the only concrete thing that has been said is that the new government will liquidate all Norwegian participation in NATO's joint efforts in Iraq. This means that for the first time Norway is in a situation in which we have agreed to adopt a unanimous decision in NATO, which we then say we will not be able to implement – it will be so good for the other members of the alliance to bear the burden, and despite the fact that the efforts in Iraq have a ready-to-use international law, a unanimous Security Council decision, and also in all other areas meet all the criteria for Norwegian engagement that the Government says it will base its decisions. Just before the summer, a large majority in the United Kingdom decided to sign the agreement entered into by the previous government with the Government of Sweden, Finland and Estonia to jointly take responsibility for one of the new EU combat groups. About this, the Soria Moria statement says a whole bunch of negative things. All that is said about this agreement has the character of limitations, limitations. It is not a single word that the Government believes that this agreement is an important contribution from Norway to the UN’s resolution of conflicts in today’s world. So far, we have to be able to see that in the case of Norway's international efforts, and in the case of Norwegian foreign policy, there is nothing in what this government has so far declared, indicating that there will be greater clarity, long-termity and predictability in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e503	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e506	The representative of Wage began with the crisis settlement and moved further into the cooperation conditions of Norwegian policy. I have noticed that in this debate right-wing speakers have been very concerned about taxes and almost just that. It's their strategy. The right obviously strives to deal with the party that, in turn, had its starting point from a strong reduction in taxes and taxes. The tax competition is a competition that I think Right has to lose. On the other hand, the speakers of the Christian People's Party have shown a relatively positive attitude towards the new government and are partly commending on several aspects of the government statement. I see that this is the germ of a different attitude from the former cooperation parties to the new government, and I wonder if wages also see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e513	I was unable to hear that there was something in this line that was close to touching any of the things I said in my post, but that does not prevent me from responding to it. It is obvious that in a debate like this, different parties will focus on different aspects. Otherwise, the debate is not over yet, so the overall picture is waiting to be drawn up until the debate is over. But I haven't recorded so far that it's almost the distance between the three former government parties that there are between the three new government parties on what is the main area of the government, and that I talked about, namely Norway's foreign policy. I think that's historically interesting, because we've had a lot of coalition governments in Norway in the course of time, and they've all been on the right side of the middle line. The new thing is that we've got one on the left, but we've never had a coalition government before where the participants disagree so much about foreign and security policy as the three parties in the new government are.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e520	There was a lot of wisdom in what the representative Inge Wohnning said in his post. Yes, in fact, it was so much wise that the Right itself must have felt very uncomfortable with some of the foreign policy choices the Cooperation Government made. For the Progress Party, the transatlantic link is the foundation of Norway’s foreign policy. This cooperation not only has historical roots but is built on a common sense of value that includes freedom for individuals, equivalency, equality, freedom of expression, market freedom, democracy and a secular rule of law. These are values that Norway and the United States and other allies must promote and defend. My question to the representative for Wage is therefore: Will the Right in opposition once again stand together with the Progress Party to ensure Norway's safe, transatlantic anchoring?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e529	Of course, I have no objection to the friendly characteristic representative Tybring-Gjedde gave of my post. But I have a little difficulty understanding the problem he was traveling. I have not registered in the past four years that there has been any doubt from the outgoing government about the importance of transatlantic cooperation. It has been clear and unambiguous from the outgoing government all along. But perhaps I can return the question, because what has surprised me about the attitude of the Progress Party on this issue is that we always talk very much about Norwegian NATO membership and transatlantic cooperation, but we are never willing to talk about what is new in the situation, namely that NATO and the EU cooperate more closely and more closely in the field of military and security policy. It has always been a cross of thought for me that there is a party in this room that has made it a virtue not to have a position on the main security policy challenge facing Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e536	The representative's salary drew us back to the crisis settlement. I'm going to withdraw even further, to around 1910, when they discussed who would have the rights and ownership of Norwegian hydropower resources. Luckily, that time did not get their right will, because they wanted the foreigners to have control of these resources. We have seen that there has been little development in the Right in those years, as Oslo Energy has been trying to sell at least twice with the Right in the Board. The new government says that Norwegian hydropower resources and other natural resources are also wanted to be in public ownership. Does Inge Wohnning continue to mean selling out Norwegian resources and, in particular, Norwegian hydropower resources? It is these issues that have had the greatest impact on the development of Norwegian prosperity in the election that the Right was voted down almost 100 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e544	Also with regard to this line, I have to confess that I have some problems seeing the connection to the post I made, but let go. I have registered that the new government is flagging the national high. It has been a very long time since some Norwegian government in its government platform have used ‘national’ as a unique honorary word. It may be possible to return to the party of government for which Ryan has now become the parliamentary leader, since it is the only party that uses the word ‘socialist’ in its name, that perhaps it is a cross of thought that exactly a socialist party is so enormously concerned with national and national special interests, because at least historically, when we speak history, the combinations of the words ‘national’ and ‘socialism’ are not exactly what has been most successful in the course of history.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e551	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e554	Sustainability – finally, this is the word that should be the policy guideline, the word that should be the important word for Norway. It's been a while since we've heard it – sustainability. We're the ones responsible for the long lines, we're the ones who are going to raise our eyes and look forward. We're not going to look down on the bulkheads at all. It's because we're responsible for the next generations. They're not responsible for us. Our Tippold children are responsible for those who come after them. That's when we're going to have the word that's so beautiful and beautiful as our guideline. And then it's great that we give SEK 5.4 billion extra to Norwegian municipalities -- where our children live, where our children get their basic education, where the older people live, who need help and care afternoon and evening, where they're not really seeing that being in society is so very good, but they need some help. They're there, too. And then it's very good that 5.4 billion kroner are given without being earmarked. Because then we can actually take into account that people are different, that municipalities are different, that problems and challenges are different. That's when there's a little bit of hope and a little bit of suss over things. We're going to have a community, and we're going to use that community to process the resources. It's getting our kids competent, it's using the natural resources we have, it's prioritizing giving them a school with enough adults around them. These kids are going to grow up and know that it's important that they are who they are. These children must have varied knowledge, because at some point they need to know that they matter and that it benefits. They should have hoped. It's actually a point to give something. That's what we're supposed to teach them. Then we're going to teach them to become knowledgeable, to be able to apply new technology, to think about the new ideas -- the ones we haven't been able to think yet. And then they're going to learn to be inclusive. That's when we get something a little bit better for the generations that come after them again. That's really our job. I think it is very good that we should bet in kindergartens. In fact, the greatest increase in value we've ever achieved in this society was that women started to work. Then it's very good that we have kindergarten places, so we're sure that the children get safe and secure storage, get a safe and safe everyday life where they can learn something – because it's actually not scary to learn in kindergarten – as part of the education system, voluntarily. We're going to make sure they're also safe when they go out and they're going to create a better life. We shall do so by strengthening the community, the Community solutions. We will do so by facilitating Norwegian municipalities to maintain the values they have obtained from previous generations, to maintain the buildings, to maintain the infrastructure, and to implement sustainable community planning. And what is that? Well, it's community that actually has enough people employed and capacity to plan good opportunities, good spaces and good road solutions for the inclusive communities that come in the future. They shall plan for universal availability. That's what should be the basis. We're not going to go after special solutions and trick and fix schemes – not because we're necessarily just going to think availability for one group, but because when we give everyone the opportunity to participate everywhere, we can make demands for everyone. And that's when we take people seriously. In fact, to be required is equality – the strongest equality of all. It's the most important thing. That's why it's okay that we do it, because then we're able to take the raw materials we have, which are people, which are natural resources, and process them. We take the way from the raw materials to the gourmet society – in its transferred sense – in order to create a community of competences. That's what we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e567	The left is a socially liberal party. That means that we have faith in the balance between the individual's freedom and the responsibility we have for each other. Social liberals have always had faith in the community in solving what is common challenges. That's why we also have a clockwise belief in local democracy, where dialogue and closeness to the challenges can actually create the best solutions, where one also believes that more inequality is good in finding the solutions needed for each local environment. We have faith that people want to find their way to the good life in a good way. We're actually living in a socially liberal time, where people don't want to get into the mass flow, where you want to choose your path to the good life, where you want to live your lives differently, and where you have different needs, desires and dreams for the future. Socialism is quite old-fashioned in meeting these challenges. And I'm afraid that the government's great dreams of equality ideals and community migration will take people further and further away from the possibility of creating their own good life. It may be hard to see, if you just read the government statement superficially, but I want to mention some examples. For example, the government will remove the second foreign language in school. Obviously, you can certainly find some students who want to struggle with another foreign language. But what the second foreign language gave us an enormous opportunity was for the first time to be able to trust and show diversity for all the kids who don't have Norwegian as their mother tongue. For the first time, you now have the opportunity to actually get papers in the language you speak when you're at home. For the first time you finally have the opportunity to get the diversity you've grown up with, to become a normality for the school. We have had a school that has developed one language, and there has been a problem that kids have been able to have an extra language. Here we got a historic chance to leave that difference a competence. You take it from us. There are fears about the reduction of labour market policy instruments, from a government that has created so many new small businesses, as many new jobs as not very many can point to in its accounts. I just have to say that it proves what kind of vision you have of people. Do you want to have a government that has the primary objective of giving people the opportunity to create their jobs, bet on what they want, grow on their assumptions, or do you want the state to spend its money on giving people action places, so they're going to get paid by a measure, determined by the state? So that's what's called the privatisation of schools. We left people like to distinguish between what we don't like, and what we actually want to forbid. For the Left, public schools have always been the most important. I was the case rapporteur for that law, and I started my post by saying that for the Left, the public school is always the most important. But we're going to be able to be the best to have the best public school and not necessarily ban everyone else who doesn't choose what we absolutely want. What we're doing is we're taking something from all of the parents who now had a little hint of power to all of those who tried to put down their cross-country schools. We've got so many small, good health schools with our law, which gives so many opportunities and power back to the individual to join in and create their local environment. And we're going to take that power from them, because someone might choose something that we don't like first of all! Maybe it's even more demonstrative that this government chooses not to say that being samish is a cultural choice you make in relation to your relationship, but it has to be placed in the social field. It is the Social Minister who is to be responsible for Sami matters in this government. It's a social challenge that someone has a different cultural background. It says a little bit about what values you put in the bottom. I think we're going to see that, even though it's not old-fashioned socialists in the government, that at least it's not the dream we social liberals have of a great commitment to local democracy, the belief in the freedom of the individual and the individual's desire to create the good life, which is the driving force here. Here, the driving force is that everyone should choose the same life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e587	The representative, Skei Grande, is concerned about freedom of choice. I'm not. I believe that a social democratic policy gives us freedom of choice, equality and equality. Shei Grande talks about public school versus private solutions. As a social democrat living in North Norway, I am very afraid of the private school promise that the outgoing government came along with. I think it creates inequality, and it creates less freedom of choice. This government has promised a boost for Sami, for language and for culture. It's not to turn the Sami into anything marginal, putting the Sami equal to the non-Samian, the Norwegian. It will do so through culture, through language and through Sami cultural, social and business life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e594	I don't mistrust the desire to bet on Sami culture. This has also been said by the Minister of Social Affairs after he joined. My observation was that the Sami question is a social issue and is placed under the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs. That's what I think is strange, and I think you should also notice as a value signal from this government. What Tove Karoline Knutsen believes is that it takes the freedom of choice away from people that the public school gets challengers. It's to have an incredibly small belief in public school. I have a lot of faith in public school, me. I think most people will choose it, if they have the opportunity to do it. I have great faith that through a bet at public school we will make it the best. And people want to choose for their kids what's best. Where this law has really been used, in all the local environments where parents want to fight for their local environment, but keep their primary school. That's what was meant to give action spaces in the primary school law, for which I was the case rapporteur. That is what I think we have fully fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e601	The left has made it his trademark to speak the small businesses' case. Making Norway simpler, creating less bureaucracy for business, reducing the form field and things like that is an important matter for the Progress Party, and as I understand it, it is also an important matter for the Left. After all, the Left has been in government for four years, but we must say that the reductions in the form field have been extremely marginal. One might wonder why the left has not achieved more in this area, which is one of their heart matters. But my question is: can we count on the Left now in opposition to give priority to the creation of simplifications, the reduction of the form field, the reduction of bureaucracy for Norwegian business and the participation and support of the Progress Party in the fight for better framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e610	This is probably an area where the Left and the Advance Party do not disagree so much with the intentions. The big difference is that the left has actually been in government and tried to do something about it. We know how heavy those big shots are to move, and how much is needed by background organization to get it done. We have adopted the principle of sunset legislation. We've now got the electronic signatures that are needed to collect all of this. We've coordinated a lot of units, like this. The Food Authority. We've coordinated many of the units that companies relate to. But we're going to fight further for this. We think it is quite important that all the small businesses around should be given the opportunity to create the jobs and the values that they can, without having to spend the time on forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e617	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e620	The Government Party agreed on a stronger commitment to transport in the national transport plan for 2006-2015. This is also followed up in the political platform of the Soria Moria negotiations. This does not mean, for example: a one-sided commitment to road construction or a one-sided commitment to rail or other collective provision, but a broad commitment where the different parts of the transport sector are seen in a context. It means a transport policy that meets the different needs and challenges of urban and urban areas, and the challenges of rural areas – challenges that often have to be addressed in different ways: increasing investment in road development where it is appropriate, increasing investment in rail and other public transport where it is most likely. Good transport and communication services are crucial for an efficient, competitive business, for construction and for development across the country. Yes, there's a commitment to value creation everywhere. At the same time, we must make this transport as environmentally friendly as possible, and road safety must prevail over everything. Therefore, transport policy must be geared towards reducing emissions and noise, and the work on zero vision must not continue to be fatal or life-threatening. We must create a common transport policy under elected government, in which regional and district policies, environmental protection and distribution should be a fundamental principle. Contest is not the answer to all challenges. It is good that the government will be involved in reducing the differences in fuel prices across the country by introducing freight dithering. It will also fund projects for the coherent development and modernisation of new road and rail sections. There is a need to improve the road network across the country. If we are to trigger the potential for value creation, we need to improve on the secondary highway network and the county road network as well as on the main roads. An increase in the number of bicycle paths is necessary to improve the traffic situation and the safety of the lists and to allow more people to use the bicycle, for example. to and from work. If this can be made more roadworthy, there will be a dear download of other traffic – especially in cities. If transport is to become more environmentally friendly, we need to increase the use of environmentally friendly vehicles, to replace national road ferries with new gas ferries and to support the development of hydrogen that energy sources in the transport sector. We need to make greater use of instruments that stimulate the use of environmentally friendly cars. Throughout its reign, the Bondevik government finally said that it would introduce the requirement to use biofuels in line with the EU directive. There are several of us who have wanted this for a long time. The Stoltenberg administration is now notifying the launch of an introduction program to follow up this process. If we are to resolve the transport needs in the future, where one must also take care of the environment and road safety, we must improve the collective transport solutions. The Stoltenberg government here announces a series of measures, such as introducing a Youth Card for a collective discount that gives the right to 50 pst. discounts for young people, elephants and students, better facilities for disabled people and extended urban and urban reintegration schemes aimed at facilitating public transport. But we also need to ensure that there is the best possible collective provision in the districts, for example. main-year accommodation service by taxi combined with boat, bus or train. The railway will have a lift. Removal of road and electricity charges will stimulate more traffic across the railways by both people and goods. Coast Norway is important for the value creation of the country. That is why we must improve the fishing ports and facilitate important maritime transport. It must also be an objective to maintain the unity portfolio and an equivalent postal service across the country. Electronic communication has a large district-friendly potential in itself. But it requires the whole country to have access to high-speed networks. The Government’s political platform expresses the public’s support to be in place during 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e642	It is with great interest to read the Soria Moria Declaration, in particular related to how the majority government intends to solve the many problems that exist in the area of health and care. Yes, because it is a fact that in this sector there are still a number of unresolved tasks. The problem is that, in fact, there is reason to fear that the proposals for solutions made in the much-discussed statement may not be sufficient to solve the problems. Unfortunately, there is reason to fear that they will also be able to create a number of new problems. I'll justify this. Once you've joined the election campaign we've now had behind us, you've seen that the three government parties have traveled around the country and the beach with promises of huge sums of money for the most part. And this has created expectations. When one then afterwards from this pulpit says and in addition also writes in the Soria Moria Declaration that the rule of action is to underpin economic policy, one has already met the wall regarding a number of promises given in the election campaign. I want to address a few issues, all the time I choose to take the Soria Moria statement seriously. And you really should. The Prime Minister has expressed several times that it will not be applicable with a single penny in tax relief until it shines through the care of the elderly in this country. Yes, one has even gone so far that one has promised 10,000 new jobs in the care of the elderly by the end of 2009. When can you expect these positions to come into place? And where's someone going to pick up the money? The declaration mentions the arrival of 10 000 new annual works, while the Prime Minister has stated today that 10 000 new posts will be created. There is a significant difference between getting 10,000 new jobs and getting 10,000 new annual jobs. I hope we can soon get a clarification of what is applicable. Is it the Prime Minister's word from this pulpit at the latest today that applicable, or is it what is stated in the declaration? Then there's a strange question you also have to ask yourself. Do you want to earmark money for these positions? If not, the individual municipality can choose to use these funds in a different way from what the government wants. And if that's the case, I'm really looking forward to hearing the Central Party's explanations about what's going on with the local economy, and that about overcoming local politicians out there. Furthermore, there is reason to note that according to the statement, it is now more important with whom to print the payroll than the quality of the help they receive. In other words, the freedom of choice of the future is to be linked to the choice of the municipality’s various offers, even if the municipality chooses to make more offers. That's what has actually been the case in Municipality-Norway, that you haven't had the capacity to make more offers. It may seem that a person in the field of health and care is now going backwards into the future, where the supposed excellence of socialist ideology is to count more than the individual's ability to choose between several providers and more offers. Or is it simply so that this is also a thank you to the trade union Jan Davidsen for the efforts in the election campaign? There are several things in this statement that give cause for concern. One of the points is what goes on. ‘that a majority of the members of the board of health establishments shall be appointed from among the proposed elected members of the municipality or county, respectively’. I'm going to take an example, so you can imagine the chaos that's going to occur, and I'm going to use my own home region with St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim. It serves as a hospital for the locals in Trondheim. It acts almost as a central hospital for South Trondelag, and it is a regional hospital for Middle Norway. It's going to be fun when you're going to appoint the board members, to see what kind of interest they're going to take inwards. If you now think you have a drag fight in the governments of regional and local businesses, you really need to get an interesting job to follow up on what will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e669	A lot of people in recent times have said that the new government will come to the table. That's probably true in most areas. Very much goes the right way. There are great possibilities ahead. What part of us asks questions is: Will the new government plan to exploit the possibilities that exist now and in the areas where we are on the right track? Because one week we could right a pretty interesting report about the NSB on the TV2 news. I want to quote a little bit from what was said there: ‘NSB goes sour, and according to management, all is joy and vulture. The economic result is better, the punctuality is back. And both customers and employees are satisfied. ... And the group manager admits that the competitive outsourcing of the train operation has strengthened the NSB: ‘The competitive outsourcing so far described has helped us to bring down the cost level and get a better offer to the public. I am reasonably sure of that."... The employees of the NSB are also more satisfied. Enthusiasm is back after many sad years for the state enterprise. It literally runs on rails for the NSB.’» For those of us who have followed a lot of things in the last few years, this is a very happy signal. There has been a very positive development in the NSB in recent years. Then it becomes a little weird when the statement from Soria Moria comes the day after this entry, because that's where it's called.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «The government will not tender for any more passenger services within the railway.» It's quite correct that the representative Rudihagen just said in his post: "Competition postponement is not the answer to all the problems." But why not use a tool that we know works, when we see that this gives huge gains to those we're set to ten, to the passengers? The Gjøvik course has been on offer. It has provided a better supply at a lower price, and the NSB is generally better. Why, then, change what works better than ever? Is it so that political champions are more important than common sense? Is this the same thing to be taken into account when applying to the other parts of Norwegian industrial policy? We have seen that the previous government over four years has been able to achieve what businesses, employees and employers asked for before the government joined, simply to get a healthier competitive environment – lower costs, lower interest rates and better competitiveness. Very much so that the government managed to achieve. The framework for Norwegian business is today much better than they were four years ago, for example. by bringing the level and level of taxation into line with our competitors. Then I want to ask the following questions: When the new government says that taxes should be increased, and we know that most of the taxes came to business, is the investment tax going back? Yes, it's $6 billion to pick up. Are the depreciation rates going to be down again? Yes, there's $5 billion to pick up. Is there a deduction from research and development to be removed again? Yes, there's $1 billion to pick up. Or is it in case of a reduced employer’s fee for employees over 62 years of age? Yes, there's also almost a billion dollars to pick up. So there's no way of what's picking up money for so-called good purposes, if one just wants to thin the business. Or is it simply a conversion of taxes, for which there has been a multiple in Norway, that is to get rid of the divisional model, by getting a greater similarity between taxes on ordinary income and taxes on capital income? Here, too, there's a lot of money. All in all, business has received 20 billion kroner. This ensures significantly more jobs in Norway than the many measures that the new government will introduce. But if it is that one wants to take away a good part of these incentives that we have seen working, then that's my same question here: Is political horses more important than common sense? Is it that one will reverse what one has seen a great success?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e690	The centre party put health and care in the focus of the election campaign we have behind us. A number of debates were about local hospitals and the fight for them, and about worthy care for the elderly. The safety network that health services represent when disease strikes or when old age sets its tracks is essential for people’s safety. The centre party profiles important values in its programme for all to have access to good and equivalent health and care services irrespective of their place of residence and financial capacity. The Government statement and the platform underline this strongly and clearly. The government shall maintain a decentralised hospital offer that ensures proximity to the emergency services and food supply. No local hospital shall be closed. The economy of hospitals shall be strengthened, basic appropriations increased and the share of input-driven funding reduced. The size has decided that the distribution of income between health regions should be corrected. As the Storting is known, this bias of incomes strikes the worst for the Health West and to some extent for Health Mid-Norway. This is a historically contingent distribution of bias which means that the public in these parts of the country cannot offer as good specialist health services as in the rest of the country. The Government Declaration states that the distribution of income between health regions should be corrected more rapidly than envisaged in the St.meld. No 5 for 2003–2004. This means that priority should be given to strengthening hospitals' economies, above all Health West and Health Mid-Norway. I think that as a Westerner is very good. I also believe that the previous parliamentary leader of the Right, now director of Health West, Oddvard Nilsen, thinks this is a good thing. The Government declaration states that the mental health escalation plan is to be implemented and that a separate waiting guarantee is to be introduced for children and young people with mental illness. The situation of paediatric psychiatry is far from satisfactory. I will once again refer to the Health West, which suffers from this bias, where only one has a coverage of 2.5. The goal is 5, but according to professionals, it should be a place between 7 and 8. So the challenges are actually many. Several educational positions are necessary to ensure competent treatment provision. In the last four years, contracts have increasingly been concluded between private commercial hospitals and health establishments. This has in some cases been so extensive that it undermines the patient base of the small local hospitals. I am therefore pleased that the Government will limit the scope of such agreements. At the same time, the Government stresses that hospitals owned and operated by non-governmental organisations are to be guaranteed good conditions through public contracts. These hospitals have an important place in our healthcare system and are key actors in developing good specialist health services. We are living longer and longer, because new treatments are being used and new drugs are being developed. This also leads to an increase in the number of older people. That's great and not a problem, but it's a challenge. Therefore, the Government will further develop care for the elderly so that an increasing number of older people have good opportunities for quality of life. A national recruitment and training plan shall be drawn up for the care of the elderly and local hospitals shall play a central role in the health care of the elderly. Cooperation between hospitals and municipal health services shall be strengthened. If this means that municipalities are given responsibility for any new patient groups, municipalities should be compensated for it. The hospital funding scheme shall ensure the prioritisation of the elderly, who, the very often, have complex disorders, and further efforts shall be made to train more specialists in geriatrics. The Central Party, together with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, invites the Stortinget to work together to achieve the goal of equivalent healthcare across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e705	Let me make it clear once again: Norway has got a majority government and a new political focus. It means predictability and stability, but it also provides a basis for broad cooperation in the Storting. Cooperation between three parties means compromise. Areas where many thought that there might not be a basis for consensus were foreign policy, defence policy and security policy. That's why it's a pleasure to note that this, yes, it did the three games, and actually they did it very well. Defence reform is continuing. We must have a modern defence adapted to the threats of our time. The broad lines of foreign policy are fixed and based on long-termity and of course we as a nation are predictable and recognizable. However, this government has a different value base and will play a more constructive and active international role, focusing on peace-building, poverty reduction, human rights and international peace-making – a new international legal order in which the UN is strengthened in all fields. Internationally, too, there is a need for more commonality, it has been said before today — more governance, clearer driving rules. Our security policy is based on our membership of NATO. We want to pursue an active policy in NATO to safeguard Norwegian interests and to contribute to a good transatlantic dialogue. We're going to continue to contribute to NATO's modernisation process. With a NATO now covering almost all of Europe, the alliance is also an important pan-European forum, and the EU's defence and security policy is also taking place in close cooperation with NATO, which is important to us. The government's emphasis is on disarmament and arms control. In one essential area it is urgent to move forward: in the non-proliferation and disarmament of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. And here we have no other way to go than the contract path. The non-proliferation agreement is the cornerstone of the process of building down and eliminating nuclear weapons. 13 important steps were taken at the 2000 Agreement Conference of Supervisors. This year’s supervisory conference, on the other hand, was a failure. Norway’s subsequent request to the United Nations Secretary-General to take an initiative to raise the nuclear issue at the United Nations Summit in September was commended. Norway then managed to set up a seven-nation group. Although the initiative did not take place in September, I would like to emphasise as much as I can that this initiative must be continued. Norway is also playing an important role in the governance of the IAEA. The Government has set up four main priorities in foreign policy: an active Northern Region policy more offensive Europe policy to strengthen Norway's efforts as a peace nation and actively promote justice and social and sustainable globalisation; to further develop the UN and strengthen the organisation both in terms of assistance and peace prevention; As I said, we want a legal order with binding international legislation. So I'm going to add that foreign policy must also contain the communication here at home of how the world changes, and what requirements it imposes on us. Globalisation has consequences for Norwegian communities. Therefore, the foreign debate must also be involved in the general social debate. Finally, on Sunday, there is a TV collection. The theme here is violence against women. It's about everything from trafficking through sexual mutilation to stoning. Let us actively support this and at the same time bear in mind the responsibility of Security Council Resolution 1325. It is about violence against women in war, and it is about women's participation when peace is to be built. This month, Resolution 1325 is five years old. It is also time for Norway to become actively involved in 1325 in different forums. Actually, that also applies to NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e742	There is no shortage of challenges in the field of foreign policy. The focus of the last few days on WTO negotiations and in the north shows this with all clarity. Furthermore, we live in a world where globalisation is growing, the energy situation is difficult, and terrorism too often shows its ugly face. For the Progress Party, it is important to indicate that it is essential to base Norwegian interests and priorities on foreign policy. It is particularly about caring for our responsibilities in our neighbourhoods, not least in the northern regions, including our relationship with Russia. We can't just talk nice about sovereignty in the north. We have to show in practice that we mean something by that. It will require priorities and follow-up. The party of progress is prepared to be in on it. Greater and more permanent presence from the Norwegian Navy is a key in this context. But it is also about showing solidarity with the people of our neighbouring country Russia, who are struggling in relation to the environment, poverty, violence, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS, to mention something. The problems are many. There may be no border between two countries as contrasting as that between Norway and Russia. We have a responsibility in that regard. In order to safeguard Norwegian interests, whether they are security, trade or other strategic interests, it is our belief that we must have allies or at least friends, and this requires long-term and will to give something back, including from the Norwegian side. Here there has been a line mainly from 1945 that has secured our interests in a good way. We are concerned that we continue on such a course, that we do not create a situation in e.g.: The relationship with the United States that weakens our relationships and our long-term interests. The government's decision to terminate participation in Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and the withdrawal of the officers in Iraq is not constructive in such a context. We disagree with both decisions, not least because we cannot see with our best will that these decisions improve the ratio of the population of those countries, perhaps on the contrary. So we leave the impression that this is just about showing the United States that now you're going to be fine without us. If this is a good signal to send to our leading ally, we can probably disagree, but it must be hard to disagree that this does not improve the relationship between us and our closest ally, the United States. Unfortunately, international military peacekeeping or peace-building operations have become more and more topical. These operations have different organisation and structure, giving flexibility and the ability to take action more quickly and with a composition adapted to the individual situation. Norway has been adaptable and has contributed where it has been reasonable and as appropriate. Now, the new government wants to tie in to what we're going to consider, without looking at the intention of the operation. This, in our opinion, is not in our interest, and I am afraid it may be a coercion in relation to future crisis situations. We have respect for the fact that we might consider how it is natural for Norway to contribute and in what way. But this is going to be decisions we deal with when the situation arises. The world is such that it is difficult to create a conflict management rule book, at least one that is only in Norwegian. Our objectives must be to prevent or stop armed conflicts, to save civilians who are subjected to abuse and, if possible, to find and punish terrorists, and to this we need many tools. I'm afraid the government is about to remove some of our tools and also make us a more peripheral alliance partner. Having followed and participated in the foreign debate in this room for four years, it has not been possible to avoid noticing the tension and disagreement that has existed between the three parties that are now forming the government. This is why it is impressive that a common platform has always been developed in this area as well. But many of us are afraid that when the Government's foreign policy compromise is to be launched, it will mean a change of course, not abruptly and with major headlines, but in various actions that, in total, place Norway on a different track compared to close allies and in how we act in international conflict management.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e759	Knowledge and education are among the most important areas of activity of the Government. It is by ensuring everyone's access to this that we as a nation and as individuals create our opportunities. It is simply crucial for our nation's future. As Minister of Knowledge, I base a broad view of my knowledge and the work of the Government in the future. Knowledge is of course skills, it's facts, and it's research, but knowledge is also infinitely more. Knowledge is formation, it's critical thinking, analytical skills and reflection. Knowledge is the competence to work with others towards common goals, and it is the ability to participate democratically and jointly. And not least, knowledge is also the ability to constantly acquire new knowledge by meeting and mastering new challenges throughout life. Good basic education and access to continuing education for all prevent exclusion from the labour market and from our society. The education system is therefore simply the most important tool for social smoothing. Knowledge ensures that individuals have a decent life, that working life has access to competent and good labour, and that is a prerequisite for well-being and work. The government will focus on the quality and diversity of school for all, and this common school will be characterised by knowledge and skills, of course, job-seeking and mastering, autonomy and community. In order to achieve this in a public common school, the Government will work towards the commercialisation of the education sector, including: by reviewing legislation and support schemes for primary schools. The broad lines of the Knowledge Lift will be continued and reinforced, but there will also be changes. We will introduce a broader concept of knowledge and competence where motivation and social skills will be equated with the basic skills that have so far been launched through the Knowledge Lift. In order to achieve the objectives of the Knowledge promise, the Government believes that it is essential that the school be strengthened by more teachers and that the number of hours spent in primary school is increased. Together with increased emphasis on continuing training of teachers, instructors and school leaders, this will allow the school to better follow-up of each student. Schools will thus have a real opportunity to become more effective in the fight for social smoothing. Learning starts long before school starts. The government has now placed kindergartens where they belong, namely in the Ministry of Knowledge, as a voluntary start to the long education cycle. We know that good kindergartens with competent staff provide children with a social competence and a linguistic foundation, and are essential for their subsequent learning in school and in life. Varying language stimulation in pre-school age helps to smooth out differences between children from different social environments. Kindergartens shall not only be a place of storage but shall be an arena for play, learning and development. In order to achieve this, it is essential that all those who wish to do so are provided with nursery facilities, and that the employees of kindergartens have relevant and good competence. The kindergarten policy is one of the most important areas of the Soria Moria declaration to be implemented first, and this is a central part of our nation's future. Continuing education, not only for school and kindergarten employees, but also in other sectors, qualifies people for a constantly changing professional life, both in structure and in work. As Minister of Knowledge, I will cooperate with my colleagues in the Government and with the social partners in order to provide the economic basis for lifelong learning to become a reality. Universities and colleges play a crucial role in the development of our knowledge society. Ensuring free and independent universities and colleges where students meet research-based education is therefore a clear and explicit objective of this government. The government has set itself high research targets. I have ambitious goals – in the Soria Moria Declaration, the ambitious goal is to achieve the research objectives set. We want to increase research efforts so that Norway reaches the target of 3 pst. of GDP by 2010. This shall be done through a massive investment in basic research and in research in industries where Norway has a advantage and which has a high value creation potential. I want to engage in dialogue with everyone in the education sector -- teachers, students, students. Everyone who has their work and interest in Education Norway should know that the new government is occupied by the individual and by dialogue. I look forward to constructive cooperation with the whole of Education Norway – and not least with this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e787	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e790	I want to start by welcoming the new Council of State to work. He now goes to an important and demanding job. He's probably already discovered that, because the promises of kindergarten prices are already broken, and so are the promises of hot school lunch. But I am most concerned about the content of the school, and I hope that the new Council of State is too, since he has taken the title of ‘Minister of Knowledge’. Therefore, it becomes a bit paradoxical that his first initiative as Minister of Knowledge is to weaken the knowledge content of the school – by removing the requirements for general study competence. This means that everyone, regardless of their study programme, can now take a higher education course. Cooperation management went the opposite way — by tightening up the requirements for general study competence in order to make students really prepared for study. In the evening post of 15 October, the Head of the Federation of Education, Helga Hjetland, states that the link “is very concerned that the government will reduce the requirement for general study competence”. She goes on to say, ‘This may impair the quality of education and is something we strongly advise against.’ Does this strong concern impress upon the Council of State? And does he think that there is a connection between the theoretical knowledge of the students and their ability to undertake higher academic education?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e804	It's important that we imagine that there should be multiple paths to academic education, if you want to. How we're going to make this practical, we're going to get back to Stortinget with it. But the starting point is that there are multiple paths. If you start a professional course, you should also be able to gain study competence. Of course, this involves some challenges for Education Norway, but at the same time it will strengthen what is part of what we're concerned about, namely that real-life competence, other competence than just what you have from academia, is an important component of Education Norway. This will lead to challenges that we want to engage in dialogue. But what we also see is that there are many kinds of skills that can eventually result in theoretical competence. This is what is reflected in the very clear desire of the Soria Moria Declaration that, regardless of the study programme, one should have the opportunity to acquire general study competence. It may mean changes in trade and hour distribution, and it may mean changes other than this. This will give the Storting ample opportunity to come back to. Our starting point is: there should be several choices – several roads – within the same quality as we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e813	There is a danger that we will be so focused on the maximum price that we lose focus on children's everyday lives. The educational offer is the very foundation of kindergartens. That is why next year, 80 million have been proposed. to measures to improve the skills of kindergartens. That's an increase of over 50 million. kr to enhance the quality of kindergartens. Christian People's Party is concerned about the quality of kindergartens – when the maximum price is reduced to $2,250 per year. from 1 January onwards of the following year. It means a loss of income of around 400000 kroner for a common kindergarten with four departments. The Christian People's Party is particularly concerned that the private kindergartens get as predictable an economy as possible. Will the Government maintain today's ability to go beyond the maximum price to prevent quality being affected, even after 1 January next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e821	Of course, I agree with the heart that quality in kindergartens is absolutely essential. This element is therefore also strongly underlined in the Soria Moria Declaration, namely that kindergarten is a voluntary start to a long educational course where the educational offer is important. It's a little surprising to get this line from the Christian People's Party, which as late as we proposed to remove the quality requirement in kindergartens. Had it not been for a massive pressure, even from the Progress Party – that even the Christian People's Party went too far – the previous Minister for Children and Family had presented the Stortinget with a deterioration in the quality requirement. What is the clear goal of our government is that it should be quality all the way. It should be a pedagogical offer, not a storage offer. We want to spend a lot of money on getting full kindergarten development, while lowering the price. We have shown that we can do this – we have this clearly in opposition, with a conflicting government. Now we have a government that has high ambitions for kindergarten policy, and we're going to be able to do this. But of course, we invite all the parties in Stortinget to participate in the historic promise for our children, namely finally to realize full child care coverage at an affordable price. That's the goal of our government, and I hope that also the Christian People's Party and the other parties in the hall want to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e830	Governments mention a number of positive things to happen in the school sector. Many of them have such absolute support from the Progress Party. So there's free money to ensure this equivalent offer for all students, regardless of their place of residence. But as a long-term municipal politician, I have also seen that money intended for the school sector has been used for a lot other than that. That's the weirdest thing this money's been used for. How, then, has the Council of State intended to ensure that the funds are spent at school — and not on other things in the municipal budget, so that there is still a difference between poor municipalities and rich municipalities, between children in the south and children in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e837	The school, like many other parts of our important welfare state, is regulated in a combination of earmarked funds and legislation from this hall. That's how we want the school to be regulated, because we think that the sense is fairly equally distributed, and that municipal politicians, wherever it may be, want the best for the school. As of 1 January, we are adding 5.4 billion fresh dollars to the municipalities, which means that, for the first time in many years, municipal politicians actually have a real freedom of choice as to whether they want to invest in school, in the care of the elderly, in kindergartens or on other important welfare services after many years with cuts from the bourgeois side of municipal budgets where there have been no options or offensive new approaches, but on the contrary: What are we going to cut down on? This means that from 1 January, local politicians are facing a slightly different and fortunately better situation. And let me, as Minister of Knowledge, be clear about this: I hope that many will give our children priority in kindergarten and in school to get to this promise of knowledge for our nation. But I don't think we'll necessarily get a better school if I, as a minister or this hall, are to regulate each and every little "pilemite". I trust that the municipalities will do it if we add funds, and so from 1 January they will get a bigger pot than they have received in many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e844	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e847	Prime Minister Stoltenberg said today that the Workers' Party has been a driver of freedom of choice. Then he drew up the following examples: The working party was too free to choose hospitals – between public hospitals. The Labour Party was several places for freedom of choice in secondary schools – between municipal schools. The working party had introduced the option of choosing a doctor in the fixed medical system, a reform that meant that one patient went from being able to choose a new doctor every day to only being able to choose a new doctor twice a year. The working party is inspired by Henry Ford's freedom of choice: You can choose the color your car should have, only it's black. Moreover, it shows, not surprisingly, that the Prime Minister does not understand why freedom of choice is important. The objective of freedom of choice is not privatisation and outsourcing, but it is about ensuring individual power and independence in all phases and situations of life. ULOBA, which is the share of Civilian-led personal assistance, calls it a liberating tool. Those who live with a greater need for assistance than the majority often feel that they are in an abstinence position, but, as ULOBA writes on its websites: citizen-led personal assistance reverses the power relationship on your head; you take over the rudder of your own life. The Cooperative Government has therefore proposed to legislate on the right to personal assistance by citizens. The scheme implies that the municipality allocates the resources, but the citizen chooses to hire the assistant himself. The abduction has turned to power. It is therefore wrong when the Prime Minister today says that Community solutions are unsurpassed in welfare schemes. “Standing Strange People in the Shower” was the title of an article in the World’s Times. The granddaughter writes about the grandmother, who is still up and living at home at the age of 90. She only needs help to shower, wash her hair and roll it up and to wash the house. But the granddaughter asks the important question: ‘But do you understand that at that age it takes time to build trust, and how uplifting it is for the elderly when you just move around the system, so that the elderly have to deal with new people in so intimate areas?’ All parties support that young people who need assistance should have the right to user-driven help, but why should an old man no longer be allowed to be masters in his own house? Giving this grandmother the same power in her own life is actually described as privatisation, as outsourcing of competition and as putting Grandma on the market. Community solutions whereby one should have a common solution for all will mean that there will be a class 1 and a class 2 freedom of choice in that country. Class 2 freedom of choice is for those who can choose only between public hospitals, between public schools, between municipal assistants and home services. Class 1 freedom of choice becomes for those who can afford to pay extra for private hospitals, private schools and private home services. Then it will mean that those who have good finances, those who can afford to put power behind their wishes, can once again take the rudder in their own lives, while everyone else has to stand by and accept the offer that the state, the municipality and not least the trade union movement believe is good enough. I will therefore strongly warn the new government against creating such a distinction in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e870	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e873	I have registered that the representative Bent Höie has stated that the Right is concerned with simplifying the government and regional bodies. Furthermore, I have noticed that the Right Representative has recently also stated that the Right believes that the County State should not be able to review municipal decisions and that the role of the State should only be limited to carrying out legal controls. I would like to remind you that as late as 18 February this year, the Stortinget dealt with a proposal from the Progress Party to deprive the County of the opportunity to review municipal decisions. Here all parties voted against, including the Right, and the Advance Party remained alone. We now know that the county municipalities will be replaced by regions from 2010. The question of the role of the State in this respect will therefore be very central in the years to come. Can we now expect that the Right in this period will change positions in the Storting and join with the Advance Party in the fight to reduce the State's ability to review municipal decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e882	Now we're going into a situation where the whole division of tasks between the different levels is to be evaluated and evaluated. I believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party will then stand together on many important issues, including: the proposal to reduce the county as a level of government and to achieve two levels of government in that country. But it is quite surprising that the Progress Party is the party that is going to the pulpit here and is concerned about the municipal autonomy – a party that has a programme that is permeated by the fact that the state will take over all the essential tasks from the municipalities, and that everything will be governed by state administration and state bureaucracy. Rather, that party should focus on changing its own programme, so that one gives the local politicians confidence to make decisions in the areas that are important to people: well-being, nursing homes, schools and kindergartens. That's what gives municipal politicians power in the communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e889	I listened with interest to the representative Höie's interpretation of the freedom of choice's blessing, or privatisation and outsourcing, and thought to myself that when my mother might be old and still live in our municipality, I am not sure that if she is equipped with a check, she will receive many offers from private providers for care. I am concerned that we should have a public responsibility to be able to offer a good offer to her and to others when they need it, instead of experiencing the kind of competition we saw here in the autumn, where a person walks around with the stopwatch of old people to see how market forces work, if one has enough time – yes, soon it is so tight that one has to assess whether one can say good day to the old one to visit, or if one just has to say hello for the effectiveness of the stopwatch system. If we're going to get rid of it, there's one way to solve it, and that's to give the municipalities a better economy. That's why I have a question for Höie: Think Höie really that his municipality of residence and his right-wing rapporteur are happy that the municipality gets 60 million. Is it because of the change of government, or does he see it as a democratic problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e896	I myself was a local government representative in my home municipality when Dag Terje Andersen was in government. There was no surplus of government money for the municipality that imprinted our work at the time. I don't think there is a lot of money that is going to shape the work of local politicians in the years to come. One has said a lot of good words today about how these five billions are going to be used, but then there's also reason to remember that these five billions represent an increase of 1 pst. in the appropriations for the municipalities. I think that the municipalities could have enjoyed some percent higher growth, some percent higher tax input, to be able to control the money and create a good community. What's important about freedom of choice is just giving the user power. Today, Terje Andersen's posts were completely absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e903	I think it's very interesting to listen to a right-wing man from my hometown, Stavanger, explain that a person doesn't really need more money in Stavanger Municipality – because they have the money one needs, it's always got by Right. But my experience is, unfortunately, that when I talk to Right-People and spokesmen around the municipalities, they know that they have little freedom of choice when they sit and think about what an offer they have to make, what they have to coerce privatize, what they have to do with. That's the everyday they're sitting in. As I understand the representative, Höie, this means that the option that we are now giving to local politicians with the new red-green option is something they don't want. I think it might be nice for him to explain to this assembly whether it is actually such that the money that Stavanger municipality, his own municipality, gets, does not really want to have, because they would rather privatize and close public offerings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e911	I think that everyone active in their community, in the same way that everyone who goes into a public office, for example. in this room, do so on the basis that one wants to create the best possible society for the inhabitants that one represents. That's what Hallgeir Langeland and I did when we were in Stavanger City Council, and I think we both do when we're in Stortinget. That means that I hope that those who are local politicians in Stavanger will take advantage of these resources that they get extra from this government, in an excellent way for their inhabitants. Similarly, they took advantage of all the additional millions they received from the previous government, the Cooperation Government, through the growth that has been in the municipality's economy in recent years – to create the best possible society for the inhabitants of their municipality. There's no difference here. What you'll always experience is that there's a gap between desires and the means that you have at your disposal. When it comes to finding the best way to provide services to the population, I think it's best to have the users in the center and not the politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e920	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e923	In connection with the government change, we have repeatedly heard that the government has come to the table. Such characteristics must, when true is said, be considered to be an ever-negligible exaggeration. A good example of this is when more than 80 000 people with disabilities are completely out of work or action, apparently because for several years unemployment has not caused any concern — as a result of which actions have not been prioritised. Unemployment is one of the greatest challenges of our time. It's not just wasted, but immoral not to do what we can to reduce unemployment and the negative consequences of it. If we're going to reduce unemployment, this requires more activity in a number of areas. The energy situation is one of the things that needs to be improved. A hundred years after the hydropower led us into an industrial adventure that was the very basis for us today to call ourselves one of the richest countries in the world, we are in the tragic situation that we are unable to solve our own energy needs, but must invest in the import of electricity from energy sources that are not the environmental nation of Norway. The situation has also created undue uncertainty for the future. In several places, developments and future bets are stopped precisely in the light of the lack of future and foreseeable framework conditions. We are increasingly experiencing competition despite the country's opportunities. In the energy field, the government platform is the most positive one that has been presented for very many years. Yes, I will allow myself to say that good forces are now united for the best of the country. Now, it is will, opportunities, and not least a powerful majority who have clarified the broad lines of putting into practice a significant energy potential, while merging into a forward-looking and highly active environmental policy. We'll make sure that several things are done at the same time. We need to streamline and optimise existing power plants. Here it is a valuable energy contribution. On the basis of this, we will evaluate the Energy Act in order to bring about changes that can stimulate better capacity utilisation and thus increase energy production. We will increase efforts in the field of renewable energy sources and ensure that these sources are established in the power market. Last but not least, we will use the possibilities of using natural gas for domestic value creation. In petrochemical and industrial exploitation, natural gas could lead to a five-fold increase in the export value of natural gas. Today's CO2 problems are a challenge, but at the same time an opportunity. Possibilities exist for future profits, not only for the environment, but also in relation to the reasonable return on capital invested. Unfortunately, I register that not everyone in this room sees this. In Grenland, the possibilities of implementing the energy, industrial and environmental projects of the time have just been explored. All investigations show that combining energy, industry and the environment becomes profitable and sensible future-oriented solutions. In this very perspective, the government statement is historic. It is clear to bet on and realise infrastructure for the transport of natural gas. It's clear that we're going to facilitate CO2 removal. It is clear that a State company will assume responsibility for creating a value chain of transport and injection of CO2. It is clear that already granted gas power plant concessions will pass. It is clear that the State will contribute to the CO2 clean-up of these power plants. Yes, the clarifications now made bring us into the future in a positive way. Many years of ambiguity and passivity are now replaced by clarity and activity at the turn of government. This will provide predictable and long-term framework conditions, not least for the land-based industry – an industry that we are totally dependent on in terms of future value creation and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e952	I will first of all allow myself to say that it has been interesting to see how concentrated and occupied all the state councils have been of their case papers during the debate. The previous talk is about keeping an eye on what's going on – it's obviously the government councils concerned, and then the Stortinget gets to do its job. But that's okay. There has also been talk of the government's action. It's going to be interesting to see what it's going to be like in the future. I have read with great interest what concerns the field of justice policy. I actually think even the Right could have written a good part of what it says there, I think the Advance Party could have done that -- I actually think most of the parties could have done that, assuming it's very, very general. With a few exceptions that apply to the widespread use of community punishment, I think we could have actually joined the very most. I see with great interest that a return guarantee should be introduced. It's also interesting, because nothing would be better than that we managed to reverse the flood of people who have committed crime, in order to prevent them from going back again. It's interesting to think about and learn more about what to do with those who don't want to be involved in this. Are those who don't want to listen to the government going to get some kind of extra punishment? What's the problem with this? Of course, we're going to be silent with an open mind, and we're going to see what happens. Looking ahead is often based on past experiences. In this way, the Workers' Party does not have much to beat the table with, or SV, in terms of the area of justice. We can go back to 2004, then the government parties had the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. It meant a cut down on the chapter of the police in Oslo, our capital. That was the big bet that time. This led to approx. 70 vacancies in the Oslo Police Department. It was so wrong that the police director said, "We're not irresponsible, but we're at the border." If that is the norm for the power of action that the Prime Minister has called for here today, yes, good people, then I look forward to four interesting years with a criminal perspective. We'll see what happens, and of course we'll take the debate gradually. But a new government has new opportunities, it should just be missing. In the election campaign, there has been a lot of interesting talk. I record that both the Prime Minister and the newly appointed Council of State in Justice have called for more use of DNA. It's not an innovation, it's something Stortinget has largely agreed with. It has been said that we should call for a better rescue helicopter service, which is also something the Storting has agreed with. It has been said that there is a need for a faster procedure in the courts, and there is also something the Stortinge has agreed with. I don't quite see that there's a revolution going on, maybe except for having a greater understanding of the criminal approach to society. Perhaps it makes sense that if you have a greater understanding of the criminals, you reduce crime. But what you have to take with you at the same time is that every time it happens, I think the victims of crime will feel embroiled by the political regime. I think you're going to be very conscious, and I'm counting on the State Council of Storberget to be there and to take account of this relationship when he's going to design his justice policy. For there is a balance between understanding and taking account of the criminals, while at the same time preserving the victims of crime. We have to bring that dimension with us. It's a fact that those who commit crime do it on the basis of a deliberate act. Those who are victims often become it by chance. That's a pretty significant difference, which we have to take into account. I hereby challenge the new Minister of Justice to support some good measures. The Prime Minister has talked about public solutions, and so have several government councils. But we have supported, for example, in the current period. private initiative such as the Stine Sofies Foundation, a family violence project in Vestfold, and the Livet Nach Soning, in Oslo. So if we want good solutions, at least the Progress Party believes that diversity is an answer, given that people are actually different. We must then have a diversity of responses. Finally, if the Prime Minister had been here now, I could have congratulated him on the appointment of the new Minister of Justice. But since he is not here, I would also like to congratulate the Minister of Justice on his new task. I look forward to working closely with the Minister of Justice. I've had the pleasure of working with him for four years. He is a person with great ambitions, with great personal integrity, and he is also solution oriented. In view of this and the willingness of the Workers' Party to invest in the justice sector, he/she has a large height of fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e974	Public schools should be so good that private schools are not an alternative. We will review the law and support arrangements for private schools. The education sector shall not be commercialised. The prevalence of private schools which do not have a religious or pedagogical alternative shall be tightened up. Local authorities must be given more money so that good primary schools can be developed. Today, secondary school is the largest expenditure item for the county. Here, too, more money is needed, just for the sake of quality. Students are to be given the highest priority in the diverse single school. We want a school that teaches what is so finely called a profit person, an independent individual that works together with others. We want more resources in school, we want to clean up school buildings and hire more teachers. It costs money – no doubt about it! The money we have should not go to tax relief for the richest. They will go to those who are most important in our society, the youngest. If students are going to learn more in school, you can't have the goal of saving money. It's with pleasure that week I will go home to Narvik and visit the vocational school of Oscarsborg to tell the students there that they will have general study competence after 13 years of school. Completed secondary education shall provide general study competence, regardless of the programme of studies. Professionally trained young people shall not be charged with an additional year at school. They shall have equal opportunities for taking higher education as general school students. Not only that, I can delight the students that the apprenticeship grant is increasing, and that the work of more apprentices in the public and private sectors is in progress. We will continue and strengthen the main lines of the Knowledge Lift. The extended day of childhood education is an important element in the strengthening of the Knowledge Lift. It's been a disappointment for many six-year-olds to start at a school where reading and writing have come second. Custom reading and typing training should start in the first class already. We want to organize the learning for the students. We're going to have clear learning goals, re-train employees at school, and have greater freedom of method in teaching. The national tests have not been well received by the students and the system needs to be reviewed. School management and teachers benefit from knowing the level of knowledge of students, but it should not be done in pressurised forms, as tests have been carried out in the last school year. Today, many drop out of high school. We believe that closer cooperation between high school and high school is important. Few high school students know what they will be like when they grow up, but when they visit, train, seminar and education in different professions, and also in general, young people will know what they are going to do, to a greater extent than they do today. Even by offering more offers of apprenticeship contracts where training takes place in the enterprise, we believe that fewer than today will drop out of high school. Last, but not least: I am incredibly happy to be able to stand here today and greet all the students that AUF visited during the school debate, and say that now there will be free school books and teaching material. The citizens' needs-tested school boxing scholarships have not worked. Few students know that there is, and the scholarship only goes to those who bring folded hands to the principal and ask for money for books. It is wrong to say that high school in Norway is free, if it costs several thousand dollars a year for school books. I'm looking forward to the school debates in four years' time when we can tell you that it's the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV that have given the students free school books.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e991	Norway is the country of opportunity. This has been said by Prime Minister Stoltenberg, Finance Minister Halvorsen and a number of other speakers. We agree on that. Norway has a healthy economy. The new government is coming to a well-covered table. Growth is strong. New jobs are being created. It focuses on improving the efficiency and modernisation of the public sector. It is these processes that open up new opportunities and increase the level of freedom, both for the public and for the private. Competition is not a threat. It is driving forward good and effective solutions. For a small country at the top of the world’s welfare ranking, this is the only way to meet the challenges of the future to ensure increased welfare in the future. Norway is in a situation where there is hardly any other country. Other countries ‘mistake us’, said the Minister of Finance. We have a financial position that means that our challenge is to find the balance point for how much money we can actually spend domestically without destroying our own business structure. It is positive that the use of oil money should not be increased. We have a great starting point. It's not to be squandered. It is therefore worrying to record that it is almost taken for granted that the goods are created, and that the focus almost exclusively appears to be on distribution. Valuation in the competitive sector is the foundation of our well-being. Oil revenues can be dominant and can disturb this image strongly for a period of time, but they won't remove us from this context. It is the efficiency and productivity of Norwegian value creation that can determine in the long term whether we will still be able to rank at the top of the UN list of the world's best countries to live in. The declaration of accession thus provides few answers to the challenges Norway will face in the future. Norway has to face the future of filling products and services with knowledge. The promise of knowledge is an important part of Norway’s future competitiveness. The requirement for knowledge and quality of learning must be raised rather than lowered. How, then, can one warn that the requirement for study competence should be removed? Will this give the right signals to future students? No, this is going backwards into the future. In the long term, this is detrimental to Norwegian value creation. Lower learning requirements will weaken the level of competence and weaken the incentive for Norwegian students to develop internationally competitive skills. In its ultimate consequence, Norwegian innovation and innovation capacity will be weakened. This is not a forward-looking policy. Who has the ownership of the value creation, it doesn't matter. The owner has an important role to play in promoting a competitive and innovative business. There has been a positive development of the foundations and on the start-up side of the Norwegian economy in recent years. It is a strong commitment of individuals, which in very many cases is crucial for the success of the commercialisation of new products and inventions. If someone is to take the risk of creating something new, the potential gain must offset the risk. Strengthening private ownership is important for Norway’s future success. In Norway, the government, mainly the state, owns a very large proportion of the value added. Here, the balance between public and private ownership must not be distorted. A good balance and strong private ownership make Norway less vulnerable. It's surprising that the Center Party hasn't made this a taboo. The private ownership and its importance for the value creation around Norway is not the focus of the new government — rather the opposite. In District Norway, there is a strong optimism and a growing egg environment that grows up around the possibilities of a small power plant segment. The Soria Moria document proposes that small power plants be excluded from the possibility of green certificates. It will eliminate the opportunities for development for many, which will mean that this type of power plant will be discriminated against in relation to, for example: Swedish competitors, and it cannot be called good district policy. It reminds me little of cultivating the good and creative local environments that Haga State Council was very concerned about. The tax increases announced are also very worrying. The taxes on wealth must be lowered and subsequently removed, as proposed in the State budget of the outgoing government. The general tax burden still needs to be lowered. If Prime Minister Stoltenberg and his government are to be given more advantage, they must become far more concerned with creating than what they are signalling today. Norway is, as Stoltenberg said, the country of opportunity, but it is not that it gets by itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1012	First, a little comment for the previous speaker. To me, it's quite incomprehensible that there's going to be a drop in school if an assistant can go directly to the nursing school. We have a lot of these examples. It's not backwards, it's not old-fashioned, it's modern. A new epoch has begun. Finally, we get a majority government. It will provide predictability, and a free game and slumber drive in Stortinget. We in the Workers' Party feel confident that we will be able to change the course in a number of important areas of society. Cooperation with the SV and the Central Party is firmly anchored in the policy platform of the majority government for this large-scale period. We are proud of our common platform. Not only is it concrete in the various areas, but it is based on an ideological foundation. The ideological foundation requires a political course for a more fair society. This is achieved by focusing on Community solutions as opposed to market liberalism on the right. The election result in the autumn gave us a clear mandate. The voters clearly announced their desire for a fairer society. It is reassuring that a majority of voters prefer a line of solidarity, despite the fact that many people are doing very well materially. Although many people are doing well, there are still many unsolved tasks in society. The starvation of the municipalities by the right-hand side is now replaced by a proper economic boost. It will be noticed locally. In my home municipality, Arendal, it means about 21 million. kr only in 2006 more than the 2006 government’s proposal. This will lead to the necessary improvement in both the school sector and care for the elderly. It must be a little difficult to be opposition politicians here today when several of the right-wing rapporteurs and local politicians are very happy that the municipalities are now getting more money. We feel confident that investing in important welfare services locally is far more modern and forward-looking than continuing with unsocial tax relief and privatisation of well-being. As a district representative from East Agder, I am very pleased that several hundred local jobs are secured in the brewing industry and in the maritime industry. The re-introduction of the one-off packaging charge, the net pay scheme and the requirement for a coastal work permit are important keywords. The so-called modern policy of the right put these workplaces at risk. It is hardly particularly forward-looking not to bet on securing and creating new jobs. The passive role of the right-hand side in industrial policy will be replaced by an active industrial policy, where we act as active partners with business. The future also depends to a large extent on how we focus on knowledge. And here, there's also a big difference between the new government and the right-hand side. We'll bet on strengthening the primary school. The release of private, commercial schools shall be stopped. We see clearly from, for example: Sweden that such a school policy concentrates and increases social and economic differences. In my home country, East-Agder, there's a danger that the release of high school can lead to not everyone getting a proper school offer anymore. Commercial schools humiliate the cream, while the public is left with cost-intensive study facilities, and district schools are in danger of being laid down. We need to improve the quality of public schools, both professionally and socially, but more resources are needed. Unlike the right-hand side, we recognize that quality costs. In the last four years, Norwegian school has been partially privatised and starving. There's a pattern that we're also finding in a number of other areas of well-being. We are now starting a process towards a forward-looking and fair society. It's not done overnight. The eect of Norwegian society has reinforced economic and social differences. Important welfare services have been underfunded over a long period of time. A targeted policy for a fairer society and a stronger well-being will be a policy for people most and not just for the most resource-intensive. We look forward to four years with clear differences in Norwegian policy. The lines of conflict will go between a new government focusing on fair distribution, equal opportunities and Community solutions and a right-hand side that will pursue a policy of major differences, market and privatisation of important welfare tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1033	This government has repeatedly stated that care for the elderly should be improved, which I of course fully agree with. They have also stated that more new teachers are to be hired in order for us to get a better school. This is also confirmed in the Soria Moria statement. All of these things have to be solved by pouring more money into the municipality of Norway, initially NOK 5.4 billion extra to the municipalities in free money. Does that mean that more money will be paid to the municipalities for the lack of care in the municipalities? In some municipalities, it might, but hardly in all. This was also evident at the press conference held in connection with the presentation of the Soria Moria Declaration. At first, Stoltenberg was out there holding the tab high for the care of the elderly in the municipalities, then Halvorsen came on the track and promised several teachers, and finally Haga came and promised more for culture and nutrition. This shows that the trio Stoltenberg, Halvorsen and Haga only want what the $5.4 billion will be used for. So it's entirely up to the majority in individual municipalities whether or not the offer for the elderly should be better. Although most local authorities make reasonable choices for the benefit of the population, we have seen too many municipalities choose to give priority to care for the elderly for the benefit of other areas over a long time. I can mention the municipality of Bodø, where park areas, bathing areas and cultural quarters are given priority in order to provide room for nearly 40 people in need of care. I could continue to mention the municipality of Bamble where they consider taking the dessert from the elderly so that KLP would still have exclusive rights. These are just a few of many examples. Those who today have paid taxes and taxes over a long life to get a safe old age did not do this so that a random local government could choose away an offer for the benefit of a bathing country or a cultural offer. It is only the introduction of a rights-based care service that will guarantee that care for the elderly becomes a justice rather than a coincidence. When I also heard the Prime Minister talk about freedom of choice over and over again earlier today, I get exhausted. What freedom of choice is he talking about? Is there a choice between applying for a sick home or standing in line for a sick home, which the majority in the municipality may have opted out in favour of a bathing country? The representative Meltveit Kleppa was on the pulpit today and expressed concern that an 80-year-old woman from Finnsnes would be given a check, so that she alone or with her neighbors would be able to choose which nursing home she would use. Yes, you can imagine what a terrible fate it would be for the 80-year-old lady that she, alone or with her neighbors, would have to choose where to live for the rest of her life – after she had, over an 80-year-long life, decided who to marry, determined whether to rent an apartment or buy herself a house, whether to live in Oslo, in Bergen or in Finnsnes. I think the representative Meltveit Kleppa, the majority and the government should be more concerned that the old lady was guaranteed a worthy old age by the fact that the money was guaranteed to be spent on the sick home place she needed, and that in addition she should do what she has done through a long life, namely to make her own choices. The government statement makes combating poverty a major area, and it is good. In the third verse of the ‘International’, which the Workers’ Party has stopped singing, it says: «The laws of the State are bent against us». The first thing a new government should do was lower the social charges that hit those who have the least. I'm afraid the opposite will happen. Let's take a single-parent with more kids. If he or she is going to buy an apartment, he or she has to take a top loan to pay the document fee to the state. Once you have finally moved in, you have to pay sky-high taxes to the state on the power you use. The sky-high fuel charges do not primarily hit Smoke, but precisely the single-parent with several children, children who are going to kindergarten, to the play or to practice. Not enough to buy fuel with the world's highest taxes, in addition, you have to pay tolls to the state to transport the children to practice. Of course, these examples only apply if you can afford to buy a car in a country with the highest charges in the world. These examples show that the fees are unsocial and that they hit the hardest of those who have the least. The first thing about a government that wants to eliminate poverty, should do, was lower the tax and tax levels that help make people poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1053	The main task of the Government and the Red-Green majority is to create well-being and security. That's why fighting crime is also one of our most important welfare tasks. The government will have an active and comprehensive fight against crime. We will ensure that it is better prevented, clarified, reacted more quickly and rehabilitated better. There are many ways to prevent, but the most important thing is to create a society where people don't fall outside. The majority of prisoners in Norwegian prisons were unemployed when they were imprisoned. That is why we need to create jobs to prevent crime. The majority of prisoners have grown up with serious problems, and where child protection has or should have intervened. That's why we need strong child protection to get more kids in need of help caught up. The majority of prisoners in Norwegian prisons face serious alcohol and drug problems. More than half the crime of violence is committed in alcohol abuse. That's why we have to reduce the amount of alcohol. And close to 40 pst. prison inmates in Norway lived below the poverty line when they started their residence. We have to reduce the differences in society. Good services in psychiatry, health and care and active labour market policies are important for a comprehensive fight against crime. The fear of crime creates great insecurity in very many people. That is why, when it is committed, we must also put a heavy strain on crime. Clears up and investigates too little today. This applies both to organised crime and to everyday crime. That is why we will provide enough resources for a strong police force. Strengthening criminal justice is the biggest challenge in the criminal system. Today, there are almost as many people standing in a pay queue as those who pay for their punishment. The government will therefore also strengthen its efforts to reduce pay queues. On Sunday, the TV action is conducted by the Dreamcatcher. This year's TV action will contribute to the fight against violence against women. Every third woman in the world is beaten, forced into sex or otherwise abused at least once in a lifetime. Four million women and girls are bought and sold worldwide every year to marriage, prostitution or slavery. The abuses occur in all cultures, in all social layers, against little girls and adult women. Violence exists everywhere. But it doesn't do the relief measures. Where poverty is greatest, the offer is worst. UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has said that violence against women is one of the most widespread violations of human rights today. Violence against women poses a health problem in line with AIDS and cancer. In Norway, too, the numbers are serious and the numbers of darkness are enormous. In the case of the sexualized violence, it is estimated by only one in ten reporters raped. And I can almost understand that so few people report this, because it's only 17 pst. by the cases, and even fewer are convicted. This is unsustainable. When so few rape cases lead to a conviction, there is reason to ask whether we ensure the legal certainty of women. Therefore, the Government will come back with measures to strengthen the legal certainty of the raped, with better evidence and follow-up to victims of abuse. We're going to make sure that the crisis centre offer is legislated. We want to strengthen the legal certainty of the victims of the rape by offering them an aid lawyer even if the case is not reported. We will work to raise the level of punishment for rape, murder, gross violence and moral crimes, and we will strengthen the police's efforts to combat trafficking. Women and children shall have the right to live a life of freedom. Therefore, it is important to support Sunday's TV action. And therefore, violence against women and children both internationally and nationally will be one of the top priority issues of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1064	The government has high ambitions in agricultural and food policy. The food sector has a production value of over DKK 100 billion and employs more than 100 000 annual jobs around the country. The forest sector has a production value of up to DKK 40 billion and employs more than 30,000 annual works. Active agriculture throughout the country also produces collective goods that benefit the population. The government's aim is to maintain a living agriculture throughout the country. However, when I believe that the objective is ambitious, it is in the light of the current WTO negotiations. These negotiations could pose the main challenges facing the agricultural sector in recent times. That is when this objective is committed. It commits us to do what we can to ensure national policy space and, once a new agreement has been concluded, to exploit the space for action and to adapt it to ensure the framework conditions for the continued viability of value chains throughout the food sector in Norway. Customs protection is, to a large extent, the determining factor for the level of prices of agricultural products in Norway. Therefore, continued strong customs protection has first priority from the Government. With lower customs protection – and thus lower import prices – competitiveness and profitability at all stages will be a very demanding challenge. As part of that work, the Government will further develop the valuation programmes for food, wood and sanitation and stimulate the use of bioenergy, niche products and building development, in order to contribute to the operation of all potential markets. It will contribute to a broader nutritional base and to Norwegian consumers choosing Norwegian products. Consumer confidence must be gained, including: by developing new goods and services in agriculture and forestry and providing safe quality products that consumers want and experience as exciting. We will also help to increase the further processing of Norwegian timber and further develop a national forest policy, where the state assumes co-responsibility for planting and young forest care. It is also necessary to provide a basis for profitability in the long term. Today, we have a situation in relation to the avian influenza that shows the need for an active policy in the field of food. We get a lot of free in Norway now because of an active policy over many years, and we have a good animal health, which makes the starting point for mastering the situation related to the bird flu better than it could have been. We need to ensure health and quality throughout the value chain to help protect consumers and ensure public health. Veterinary issues are going to be an important issue for this government, and the government is going to follow the situation from day to day in relation to the avian influenza in order to ensure precisely the health and safety of people in Norway. Much of the backbone of Norwegian agriculture today consists of what is often referred to as family farming, those that can be said to lie between niche production for specialised markets and the really large volume producers. The government will ensure income development and social conditions for farmers in line with other groups. I would like to mention, in particular, the welfare systems in agriculture which are of great importance for the quality of life and recruitment, not least for this large group of agricultural businesses. WTO negotiations could lead to lower product prices and a deterioration in income opportunities in isolation from agriculture. The government will therefore discuss, at a later stage, income policy measures to compensate agriculture for possible reductions in customs duties and protection aid. The government will strongly emphasise that, through cooperation with other countries, primarily the G10 cooperation, but also other countries that need to have common interests with Norway, we should be able to actively exploit the space for action that we are to create under any new WTO agreement. A new agreement could mean the need for changes and the need for changes in the use of the instrument. However, the objective of the changes must and should be that we should continue to be able to use the whole country and that we should continue to have active agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1084	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1087	Let me first congratulate the Council of State on the appointment and at the same time invite you to a forward-looking debate on the development of Norwegian agriculture here in Stortinget. As the Council of State mentioned in its statement, international requirements are now likely to require a formidable conversion of Norwegian agriculture. Governments know better than most of the ongoing WTO negotiations, which he highlighted in his speech. Lack of requirements for conversion over many years has led us to come into this regrettable situation, and there was little in the statements of the Council of State that suggested that he would contribute to such a transformation. Then we've got some special situation that we've got a government council that comes directly from the management of the Norwegian Bond team to its new position. Norway’s Bondelag has been countering the smallest change and conversion requirements for Norwegian agriculture throughout the year. Therefore, I allow myself to ask the following questions: Will the Council of State now implement the necessary conversion of Norwegian agriculture, or will he look at Norwegian agriculture through Norwegian Bondelag's counter-trender glasses?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1096	I can assure the representative of Asmyhr that I have only one mission, and that is to ensure that the agricultural policy of the Government is implemented. It is obvious that the job should be done without deterring either one way or the other. We have a Soria Moria statement that is very good in relation to the challenges of agricultural policy, and that is the basis for my work – of course. Otherwise, I disagree with both the premises and the issues in the Asmyhr post representative. Firstly, it is not right that we have a situation where there is no migration into Norwegian agriculture. We have an offensive agriculture in Norway today that has changed and is going to change. The government wants to contribute to the development and conversion of agriculture, but that does not mean that a shift is the same as a reduction in annual work and a centralisation of food production. Migration means equally developing the opportunities in rural areas, putting the whole of the rural communities into use, developing both traditional agriculture and creating annual work and employment linked to it, and implementing new industries based on individual uses in rural areas. So I agree with the need for development. I do not agree that it just means centralisation and depopulation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1105	Having been the target of the Center Party and, in part, the SV for four years in WTO policy, I must admit that I was quite excited about what the new government would come up with, not least because no longer than a week and a half had been shooting ahead. I want to give the Government a compliment for a WTO policy in which I know myself very well. The Minister of Agriculture has obviously taken action. In 48 hours, he has parked the real-life denial that marked the Senter party. Not only have they joined in what the last government presented a week and a half ago, but they have now improved the offer in the WTO context. I think that was the right time, so probably a compliment to the Minister of Agriculture. When this is done, of course, it's with the consciousness that we both have that it's going to be difficult for Norwegian agriculture. That is why my question to the Minister for Agriculture is: can this now be understood in such a way that we are in agreement with our desire for the Doha negotiations to succeed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1114	I believe that it is an objective to succeed in relation to the current negotiations. At the same time, it is a prerequisite for achieving a balanced agreement that takes all due account. This also means that the considerations behind Norway and the G10 classification are taken into account. It may not be that an agreement that may be negotiated is unbalanced and does not take into account also those countries that have net imports of food. So it has to be a prerequisite for an agreement to come ashore. Moreover, I believe that the reality of the Centre Party has been present in a rich monn all the time during the WTO process. It is also a significant indication from the new government of the need to compensate for the disadvantages that a new agreement might bring. It is an essential factor in the success of developing living rural communities in Norway in the future that there is a will in the Government to actively enter into and compensate for the disadvantages of any new agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1121	The ongoing WTO negotiations are a topical issue, and it was quite massive criticism from the centre party team of the accession of Norway's missions to the G10 cooperation negotiations. Can the Minister of Agriculture confirm that the Central Party and the rest of the new government have joined in what the previous government has accepted by the G10 joint action? It is mentioned in today’s newspapers that the sitting government has been willing to go even further than the previous government to reach agreement on customs reductions, i.e. concessions allowing fewer products to be protected by customs duties. Can the Minister of Agriculture confirm this? And finally, what does the Minister of Agriculture see as the most important products to get within sensitive products that can be protected?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1128	Firstly, it is necessary to point out that some incorrect information or conclusions have arisen in the newspapers today and yesterday that there is a proposal that has been made, which is more dramatic than what has been presented in the past. As I said in my post, it is obvious that the issue of customs tariffs, border protection and market access is the most important thing. So customs protection is undoubtedly the most important factor in ensuring active agriculture in Norway. The recording recorded by the previous government on customs tariffs is much more dramatic than the proposal that has now been recorded as a negotiating position vis-à-vis the G10 countries. In this sense, it is not possible to say that what is coming now is a more dramatic proposal than what was presented. With regard to the positions that have been promoted, that position is there as the previous government put forward, and that was also in the Stortinget. The Government does not intend to revert to the positions that are there and are now part of the negotiating basis of the WTO process.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1135	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1138	Today’s welfare system faces major challenges. Economic and demographic conditions indicate a need for a new thinking when the welfare state is to be built up for the future. A modern and complex society must meet the challenges of individuals individually. Too often we have seen that individuals fall between chairs when they need public help. The individual must be at the centre of the welfare state, not the system. It is a fundamental premise that I note that the new government does not mention in its government statement. The Government Declaration states that heavy efforts should be made to care services. That's basically good. Among other things, it is an explicit objective that there will be 10,000 more older people employed in the care of the elderly. At the same time, we know that trade unions and government parties have a fundamental scepticism for increasing labour migration. And then the government statement says that the government doesn't want what they call «commercialisation and privatisation of basic public welfare services». Does this mean that the Government has a fundamental mistrust of voluntary and private supplements in the health sector? Does this mean that health workers cannot be picked up from our neighbouring country? The left is excited about how the Government intends to meet our major challenges in the care sector. It is a fact that many people perceive the meeting with the public auxiliaries as very heavy. As citizens, they have fallen between the chairs in a phase of life where help and assistance have been absolutely vital. It also took the Bondevik II government into account when it promoted the welfare reform, NAV, for the Storting. A new welfare administration that shows people a basic dignity and respect is what Left has long fought for. There are now high expectations outside of people who want a shorter path from social security to work and who want a more dignified meeting with the public welfare system. For the Left, it is also equally important to ensure a focus on the kind of income protection system to be offered to those who cannot be associated with paid working lives. Their dignity and basis of life must be guaranteed. In the previous period, the Left Party drew close to the Left Party's programme and proposed an investigation into guaranteed minimum income. This requirement is going to help SV remember when they have now taken up the government offices. Without value creation, there will be no welfare either. With measures to increase the possibility of temporary employment, Bondevik II gave a handshake to small and medium-sized enterprises and to seasonal business. Where the red-greens have spoken about the big business interests, the Left has also seen that we are dependent on small and medium-sized enterprises in this country. I'm curious if the government is able to reconcile the different considerations in this field. A fight against violence and crime is a struggle for well-being. We expect the government to hold up the pressure to fight the violence that particularly affects women within the home's four walls. We expect the government to continue a targeted fight against organized crime. It is in its essence an attack on our society and must be combated. We will also follow closely the government's work against financial crime. Such crime is to teach society values that otherwise could benefit the community. Working for a good welfare society and a liberal legal state is to pursue an active and targeted justice policy. In the drug field, the Government announces that it will draw up a national obligatory escalation plan. We look forward to that with great anticipation. After the Bondevik II government gave a heavy priority to drug care measures over its four years, we expect the Stoltenberg government to continue this process. We're going to follow the government's drug policy carefully. The Government Declaration contains many words and great ambitions. We look forward to having the government's concrete proposals on the table and will contribute with constructive debate, discussion and good proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1162	We all feel deep despair when we see people suffering from serious diseases against which we do not yet have good remedies. There shall be very strong ethical reasons for refusing to investigate new and effective treatments for strokes, Parkinson’s disease, heart disease, Alzheimer’s disease, spinal cord disease, various cancers, etc. That's why we have to lift the ban on research on stem cells from abundantly fertilized eggs, as the red-green government is now going into the Soria Moria declaration. It's these stem cells that can become all kinds of cells in the body, and they have far greater potential than the adults, or so-called adult stem cells that we all have in our bodies. In this area, we have some of the most stringent legislation in Europe, and it should be amended as soon as possible. The Norwegian Medical Association, the Academy of Sciences and Biotechnology hold the same opinion until the former Minister of Health, Højbräten, made his last changes in it. Also many countries with which we agree, such as Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland, England, Japan, Brazil, South Africa, India, Belgium, France, Greece, etc., have taken the same course, and large research projects are now being launched around the world on stem cells from surplus fertilised eggs. Involving concepts like sorting societies in this debate, as the Christian People's Party and the Right do, reminds us of fear propaganda. Everyone agrees that the copying of humans and animals and the cloning of inheritance facilities must be prohibited. There are two ways in which this can best be ensured: firstly, we must have a clear ban on cloning of human beings, animals and legacy plants, and secondly, we must ensure that research on stem cells from surplus fertilised eggs is conducted within a sound framework of public health. This is how we can best create openness and good control and prevent crime, which attempts to clone or sort people will be. It is not easy to see the ethical high value of throwing surplus fertilized eggs, as the previous government parties would, rather than a few of them being given to health research. The Christian People's Party warns against the destruction of the unborn. But these supernumerary eggs are going to be destroyed anyway. It's a long way from talking about some assembly tape production, with which it's scared. Only one abundantly fertilized egg donated can give researchers an infinite line of stem cells. So these can in principle become all kinds of cells in the body. In the future, this will enable serious diseases to be treated more naturally, efficiently and successfully. Stopping this research is directly hazardous to health. We cannot dissociate ourselves from this great opportunity to help seriously ill people. What happens then is that the new treatments develop within global medical companies based in countries without a ban. They will take patents on the new medicines and treatment methods and build Microsoft-type monopolies on their fields. For example, a large American company has the patenting of the breast cancer gene in women in order to have the exclusive right to develop and own all new treatments for breast cancer. The price of any treatment and medication will be very high, and it may be only those with a large wallet or with a large suction tube into the state treasury who can afford it. Open research and development of new treatments in a public health service where all benefit from the results is far preferable. Therefore, the prohibition of stem cell research on fertilised eggs must be lifted as soon as possible. We should start a long-term project to research and develop new forms of treatment. This is happening now around the world. For example, the state of California is charged $20 billion, and the British are charged a similar amount. Such a project can provide us with future-oriented jobs, excellent research environments and a new high-tech education, and we can help a lot of people. We want Norway to be a leading society in the world in terms of the new treatment methods, and in terms of making them available free of charge to all our people who get sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1179	During the election campaign, we have heard politicians from both the SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party talk very much about the voluntary sector. The voluntary sector in Norway is a very important complement to the public, both in terms of well-being, health and sport. The rescue company, the Red Cross, the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, Sports, Corps Movement, Associations, Laws, etc. is a large movement of people that contributes in a very positive way in Norwegian society, and it is good that our new government parties have brought this about. But there are two key questions: first, if they want to remember the warm review they came into the election campaign when they come into the government offices, and second, if they actually want to do something concrete for the volunteer sector. There are many examples of politicians who have short memory, and election vowalzheimer is a relatively widespread disease in political life in Norway. On the part of the Progress Party, our prescription for the voluntary sector is clear, and it is also in line with the wishes of the organisations. 1st@item: inlistbox We think we need to simplify VAT rules and make tax rules as simple as possible for the voluntary sector. It is true that if you run a sports team or a club, you don't have the same administrative resources as you have in a big business. But much of the legislation is unfortunately the same.2. We need to build on the tax deduction scheme introduced by the Bondevik Government with the support of the Advance Party, and also like to extend it to as much as and in amounts, preferably up to NOK 24 000.3. We must have equal opportunities for state games and the lottery activities of volunteers with regard, inter alia, to: premiums. In this area, the lotteries of volunteers over time have experienced much worse conditions than the State games have.4. We need to ensure that public agencies improve their cooperation with the volunteers, and put this at the heart of their work in the future.5. We must ensure that the cultural budgets prioritise the voluntary organisations and not large, key performance projects, as they have tended to, among other things. through the big opera building that shoots up here in Oslo. We must also reverse – as paragraph 6 – the decisions taken by Stortinget in the so-called automatic case. In dealing with the introduction of the automatic monopoly, Stortinget received over 2,000 letters of protest, and it was not from large companies operating in the industry but from small associations – psoriatic associations, sports teams, corps, etc. –that had a lot of their income from this business. The sports team I myself am a member of locally in Drammen, a very small sports team called Ski- and Ballklubben Skiold, had 300,000 kroner in income from this business. It is clear that when a small sport team gets an income cut of NOK 300000, it is necessary to cut down quite sharply on part of its business. It is also a bluff that the automatic monopoly will actually lead to less gambling. It's not like in Norway that we don't have alcoholism, even if we have wine monopoly. If you're crazy and you have these problems, you can figure out how to deal with this, among other things. on the Internet and through Lotto and typing within the public system. It is also paradoxical that the most aggressive in the area of gambling in Norway when it comes to advertising is not the foreign organisations and private companies, but our own state Norsk Typing. I notice that the Prime Minister in his declaration of government says that: «The government will facilitate good conditions for the voluntary sector as important contributors and complements to public services». The question is what is involved in the follow-up to these beautiful electoral elections and this beautiful government statement, and what concrete action is being taken when these matters are to be dealt with in the ministry and magnificence. In this field I am not optimistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1216	The government statement is like music in my social-democratic ears. We get a policy based on justice and community, a policy that gives all equal opportunities. It is a policy of strong and good Community solutions. It's just this that gives individual real freedom of choice. Norway is the country of possibility. Then everyone must have equal opportunities to develop and exploit their abilities, including those who need extra community help to be able to get the same opportunities as everyone else. A strong public school, all of which goes into the same class, is a pillar of the Norwegian welfare community. This government statement is a strong commitment to our unique Community sphere, both in quality and content, and to a sorely required upgrading of school buildings. I thought it was great that everyone was still getting the same platform and equal opportunities for education. Giving work to everyone is the most important thing we can do to reduce social differences in society. The Labour Party has always provided a policy where creating and caring for jobs is very important. It is also the fight against unemployment and for an inclusive working life. It's a working life where it's not like someone's trying to wear himself out completely, while others are being knocked out. It's a working life with room for both the young and the elderly. Safety by being temporarily assigned and working around the clock, and also without overtime – such negative changes in new work environment laws are fortunately stopped now. Those who have fallen outside, too, must have a chance to get back to work. That's why it's so decisive that we do more to secure jobs for those who come back to society after reconciliation. Only this way can we reduce the recurrence problems. To achieve the goal of securing a job for everyone, we need to use a wide range of tools. Labour market measures to qualify for new jobs, an offensive industrial and industrial policy and to fill in the importance of Innovation Norway, the SIVA and the Municipal Food Fund. I, who come from Hoeanger in Sogn and Fjordane, know the value of a living industrial environment. It won't happen by itself. Yes, we have to convert, but we also have to set requirements as owners – the same requirements and control signal to Hydro as all other major shareholders make to their companies. That is why I am particularly pleased that the government statement says that we should have an active ownership. But in order for the power-consuming industry to survive, we need to put in place new, long-term power contracts, and this is urgent. That the government statement in clear text has with this point is very important. In Sogn and Fjordane, there are actually three communities: Høyanger, Svelgen and Årdal. Norway has good natural resources for industry, and we must make maximum use of that. Industry provides many jobs in all parts of the country and large export revenues, and demand subcontracting and services, which have considerable ringing effects. The closure of industrial workplaces thus frames large regions, whole communities. The Labour Party will take care of and further develop the industry. For example, Norwegian raw materials are to a large extent further processed in Norway. The economy is totally dependent on a policy that ensures our competitive edge. Through central and local tools, the working party will provide stable, far-reaching and competitive framework conditions and will pursue an active industrial policy in which the state, together with industry and workers, will continue to take the course. The great effort we make in research and education is especially important for happiness. This is part of the policy of the new government, where one sees the issues in context, not just in piece and division. It's a policy for creating and sharing, a policy that takes care of people from cradle to grave, and a policy for equal opportunities for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1246	I think I'm on top of Oslo Plaza. Far down there, every person looks no bigger than a pinhead. From there it looks like this just because the distance is so large. It doesn't say anything about the value of any of those I see. Although they look small, I cannot allow myself to devalue the value of any of them. It's the same with all the individuals we're talking about in the debate on biotechnology. They're not bigger than they fit on a buttonhead at the beginning. But we can't devalue the value of a single life. We now have medical opportunities and make progress that we could only dream of in the past. I am therefore pleased that the Government will continue to focus its cooperation government on research on adult stem cells. Because we have more and more possibilities, we also have more opportunities to go wrong. I'm standing here today on the Stockholm Chair for the first time in my life. As a young representative, I have a wish for my own generation of politicians, that we should be the ones who saw both the opportunities, and who took seriously the sloppy line that exists between technology and ethics. I feel that this shattered line breaks when I read the new government platform, or when I heard the representative from Bohemian posts. The government will revise the Biotechnology Act and open up research on over-the-counter fertilised eggs, including stem cell research, and also for a limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics. The Christian People's Party assumes that the value of each human being makes it a goal in itself. Thus, research on fertilised eggs is problematic, because it makes life a means rather than a goal in itself. The Christian People's Party believes that there is also reason to think carefully about when new technology is to be used to sort people out on the basis of characteristics. Both the Centre Party and the SV were in the majority when dealing with today's biotechnology law, and said at the time: ‘The majority do not wish to facilitate such sorting, since the majority believe that such sorting will also affect the general attitude of born individuals in terms of characteristics even before implantation over time.’ It might have been interesting to hear whether SV and the Center Party consider the opposite today; whether sorting will not affect the general attitude of born individuals based on characteristics. I am afraid that the new government has a too instrumental view of the value of individuals, where the value is only measured according to what individual can contribute to the community. The Christian People's Party believes that the individual has a value in himself and not just as an instrument in the community. That is why, as a society, we must also care for the individual. That is why, as a society, we must defend the individual's worth of life, and therefore, as a society, we must primarily take care of those who cannot take care of themselves. It's whether we succeed in this, which is the actual test of whether we have a good community. Before I took a seat in Stortinget, I visited a man who had done it before me: former Prime Minister Lars Korvald. I asked him for advice on the way, and he answered me, you must take care of the next generation. What I have said about biotechnology is an attempt at this very thing. I don't just want to take care of the next generation. I'll also make us think about what happens if we open up to evaluate the properties of the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1278	The fact that we have got a new majority and a new government must be a great relief for all the local politicians who are now working with the municipal budgets for next year. When they know that there will be a improvement in the local economy, they can plan to rebuild welfare services for their inhabitants, and not just think about where to cut even more this time. In addition, our local politicians know this time what they have to do with local economy before the Christmas celebration is going on. Budgetary negotiations and games for weeks here in Stortinget and the lack of predictability have been a headache for municipal politicians and municipal administration. Through a significant improvement in the local economy already in 2006 and a multi-annual escalation plan to correct the financial imbalances in the municipal sector, we can build up the care services, school services, infrastructure and several other municipal services in a way that serves the inhabitants of all parts of this country. I am sure that the citizens will notice quite quickly that we have a majority on the Stortinget and a government that puts the Community solutions at the forefront. I am also very pleased that the northern regions have had such a broad place in the government statement. When the Prime Minister says that the northern regions will be Norway's main strategic focus in the coming years, these are strong formulations that will put a very important emphasis on the activity in these areas. I am convinced that we will have an active policy for the northern regions that will both ensure economic development, which will ensure housing and which will safeguard the environment. The Government’s political platform also clarifies that the defence presence and sovereignty in the north should be strengthened, including the defence’s contribution to good preparedness for environmental crises and the capacity of the Coast Guard for resource control and preparedness. I noticed that the Prime Minister also today in a reply with the representative Siv Jensen made this very clear. In North Norway, there is still considerable uncertainty as to the future presence of the defence. The uncertainty is there, although the Stortinget has indicated that the defence must have a strong presence in the north. I believe that ever-new proposals for changes and bursting ideas about moves and how defence should be in the future are the reasons for this uncertainty. Here it is up to both the new Minister of Defence and the Stortinget to ensure calmness and predictability, so that the job in the field can be done in the best possible way. We cannot leave the prevailing uncertainty about the future of defence in an area designated as Norway's main strategic area of activity in the coming period. I have great faith that our new Minister of Defence has both the ability and the will to bring this situation into a better path, so that predictability and security of the defence's presence in the north are created. Activity and jobs are the very cornerstone of society and the basis on which we have something to build well-being and community, and that we have something to share. Here, the government's statement carries out a district pledge that will allow us to use the whole country, and that will mean greater efforts to ensure the organisation of new activities and to ensure the settlement. I am pleased that we have received a government that understands that this country is not created for business neutrality and unilateral market management. Fortunately, we have received a great majority and a government that has the will and the capacity for political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1293	With a red-green majority, Norway will vote in favour of strengthening the UN, for conflict resolution rather than bombs, for strengthening human rights and for the fight against poverty in the world to be clearer. Foreign policy engages people, especially when the alternatives are clear, as we saw when many millions of the world protested against the Iraq war. It is a great victory for the many involved in the many environments here at home that the new government will withdraw staff and training officers from Iraq and that participation in Operation Enduring Freedom should not be continued. It is a major and important victory when participation in international operations is to be anchored in the UN Charter and has a clear UN mandate. This clear commitment will mean something for the development of international rules. It will mean something for the strengthening of the UN as the only international body that can legitimize the use of power when the use of power is needed. It is in the interests of Norway and the world that we have a United Nations-led world order and not a situation in which nations take care of themselves. It is in our interest that the fight for a safer world and against terrorism takes place within the framework of human rights. SV supports the participation of Norway in the establishment and stabilisation of Afghanistan through the ISAF team. At the same time, it is important to highlight the practice of the force in entrusting prisoners of war to the United States, which then sends them to prison camps where violations of fundamental human rights are both numerous and well-documented. More than ever, alternatives to military action, alternative ways of promoting, coordinating and ensuring the quality of peace building and conflict prevention are needed. More than ever, the forces that fight against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and for disarmament are needed. Norway's efforts as a peace nation in these areas and the fact that we have an open and informative debate depend on these forces. Norway has a rich diversity of peace organisations. The new government will strengthen cooperation with voluntary organisations, with research communities and with others working with peace and conflict resolution. It was the cooperation between UNIFEM, the United Nations Women’s Development Fund, and the many voluntary organisations, in particular women’s organisations worldwide, that led the Security Council to adopt Resolution 1325 five years ago. This resolution describes not only the violence that keeps women down in war and crisis situations, but also how women's efforts must be included in peace mediation and when nations are to be rebuilt. A UNIFEM report on women, war and peace is a shocking reading about, among other things. how women's bodies have become war arenas through mass violence and the spread of HIV/AIDS, and how especially young girls lose the possibility of schooling in war and times of crisis. But it also makes a number of clear and constructive proposals. It is now important that Resolution 1325 be followed up. The government will be a driver for it. It must be clear that the Millennium Goals can never be achieved unless the human rights violations of women cease to exist, unless women can be given the opportunity to play a role in conflict resolution around the peace negotiations tables in the transition from war and crisis to peace, in Sudan, in Haiti, in Kosovo, in Congo. The red-green government will have greater transparency around WTO negotiations. A fair WTO agreement will be essential if we are to be able to solve fundamental issues both globally and nationally. The outcome of WTO negotiations will be crucial if large parts of the world’s population are to have the same opportunity as the rich countries have had to rise out of poverty and marginalisation. Not one country has the power to develop justice and democracy for the large populations without having the opportunity to protect its own resources and interests. It is therefore very important that the Government review and reconsider all the demands that Norway has made to developing countries on the liberalisation of the service sector in gas negotiations. Norway shall not promote claims against poor countries which may impair their ability to develop strong public services in the field of health and education, nor shall it agree to an agreement that could pressure the privatisation of public services in Norway. World trade needs rules of the game, but there must be rules of the game that can satisfy greedy market forces and rely on the interests of ordinary people, of the poor and of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1314	On Monday I received two letters from voters in Hordaland. The first letter came from a disabled woman who describes her despair that she is now in danger of losing her job, and the fear she has of never getting back to work because of her disability. The second letter was from a father who described his son's situation as long-term unemployed. It is a report on poverty, frustration, isolation, loss of self-esteem. This is a reality that I know even from the time I went out of work at the beginning of the 1990s. Both letters describe the reality as it appears to a great many people in this country. Today, when the opposition is talking about the new majority government coming to the ‘covered table’, as they say, they will also take into account that there are 30,000 more unemployed around that table than four years ago, when the Bondevik government took over after Stoltenberg. Both letterwriters have a simple wish and message for me. Working for everyone is the most important thing now. The election result was a good news for all the country's unemployed, for all the thousands who are struggling to get into the world of work. We've got a majority for a new course where work for everyone is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox The political platform of the majority government clearly shows that we need to step up efforts to get more people to work. We're going to straighten out unsocial cuts in the day-to-day pay system. We need to strengthen the work to create an inclusive working life where there is also room for the disabled woman from whom I received a letter. Seafarers on our international ferries notice that the Government is continuing the net pay system, as this ensures many thousands of jobs in the ferry companies. Brewery workers note that the basic charge on disposable packaging is reintroduced. As a result, the Government contributes to the maintenance of brewing jobs. The country's workers have got a co-player in our new government. One of the pillars of an inclusive working life is a work environment law that protects workers in an increasingly brutal working life. The previous large majority decided to extend access to temporary employment, weaken the protection against dismissal and provide a significant increase in the framework for overtime work. These and other work-related decisions were taken during the examination of new work-environment laws, despite the fact that a collective trade union movement protested violently. The parties representing the majority of this great crowd were united in the elections to reverse these decisions. It will be done before the turn of the year. We are of the opinion that good cooperation with the social partners is a prerequisite for a good and well-functioning working life. That's what history has shown us. This is primarily about showing respect for the over 1.5 million Norwegian workers who have chosen to join a trade union in order to safeguard their interests. The EU enlargement led, as expected, to a large influx of Eastern European workers into Norway. The lack of skilled workers in the construction industry and other industries has created a need for such labour immigration. We would like to welcome foreign workers to Norway. The problem is that cynical employers take advantage of the situation by hiring unemployed Eastern European workers for lice pay and renting them out to Norwegian companies at a high price. In Trondheim, a case was revealed last month in which ten Polish construction workers were hired through several joints at a cost of NOK 290, while the salary received was only NOK 38, of which NOK 9 was the basic wage and the rest, among others. chord layout and foreign supplementation. This is social dumping on its grossest. This type of undermining of Norwegian wage and working conditions affects both Norwegian and foreign workers. The Plural Government will take this into account. The policy platform introduces several measures to combat social dumping. We want to ensure trusted transparency in pay and working conditions. We want to have approval and control of the company that operates rentals, and we want to demand Norwegian pay and working conditions in all public procurement processes. We will also ensure that the Labour Inspectorate has the resources to intensify its efforts in this area. The election gave us a new majority, a new government and a new course for Norway – a political course that benefits ordinary workers, a political course that puts our common well-being ahead of tax laws for the rich, a political course that aims to ensure that workers are not left in the hand even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1340	Combating poverty has in recent years become a burning political matter. That is good, because this is a very complex and complex problem, which requires a proper and fair debate on both objectives, definitions and instruments. Compared to previous speakers, there is reason to recall that unemployment is on the way down as a result of the policy of the outgoing government, and that the poverty trap that unemployment entails will thus become a minor problem in the future. It was the recent Cooperation Government between the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left that really put this theme on the national political agenda, and was the first government ever to put forward a poverty package with a series of targeted actions. It is therefore, at best, a very hasty conclusion to argue that poverty in Norway has increased during the period of co-operation. The figures now available relate to the period 2001–2003. The figures must be seen primarily as a judgment of the policy of the first Stoltenberg government. Who does not remember former Prime Minister Odvar Nordlis and former Minister of Social Affairs Grete Knudsen's judgment and bitter statements about their own party's policies and omissions in 2001, just four years ago. As the first government in recent times, the Centre-Right-government took hold of the problems and created its own plan to combat poverty. Over the period 2002-2006, targeted action against poverty amounts to SEK 4.9 billion. Let me make a brief mention: the number of job-impaired job vacancies has increased sharply. Aetate has been strengthened by 700 posts. A new probationary system has been in place in which the disability pension can be used for a longer period as a subsidy to employers who employ unemployees. Temporary disability benefit is introduced so that people who may have the hope of returning to work are no longer permanently parked outside the labour market as disability pensioners. A project has been launched to help former long-term social assistance recipients get to work and education. In addition, the housing aid scheme has been improved and the follow-up of the homeless has been significantly enhanced. The positive signs have now begun to appear. The number of beneficiaries of social assistance showed a decrease in 2004 for the first time since 1999. Furthermore, the number of families with payment problems has been greatly reduced, and the annual increase in the number of long-term unemployed has stopped. This, of course, does not mean that we are satisfied, but there is reason for both hope and belief that when the figures for the whole period 2001–2005 come in a year or two, development will have gone in a positive direction. Then I'll bet my hat that the current social minister, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, and/or Prime Minister Stoltenberg will be quick to take credit, even though this will not be the result of their policy, but the policy of the Bondevik government. I think it's important to recognize that it takes time to turn a negative development into a positive development. The causes of poverty are complex and complex and cannot be resolved by political decisions alone. One is at least certain: if we are to cope with poverty, we need targeted and long-term work. Therefore, I sincerely hope that the work that was started by the Centre-Right-government will not stop with the new, red government. It is both embarrassing and rather embarrassing to record the considerable disagreement and open-minded dispute between Social Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, on the one hand, and the Centre Party and SV, on the other hand, on how to define poverty. The SV and the Central Party believe that there are 400,000 poor people in Norway, while the Minister of Social Affairs insists that it is about 400,000. It's 100,000. It's time for the government and government parties to decide what they actually mean. The S.V. and the Center Party are firmly attached to a poverty definition that would make all the country's minimum pensioners poor per. definition, or is it based on a social aid policy that would mean that a full-time employee of Rema would receive NOK 5000 less per month than a social welfare beneficiary – a policy that would be completely destructive to the labour market and totally debilitating to any employee? It's time to get answers to these questions. Once one has become a party of government, it no longer serves to ride more horses at the same time. It is striking that the Soria Moria Declaration does not contain any new targeted measures against poverty. I regret to say that, but the statement unfortunately seems tame and visionless and contains no new instruments in the fight against poverty. It seems that the Stoltenberg II government will make the same mistakes as the changing workers' party governments in the 1980s and 1990s: focusing on the general arrangements and forgetting targeted measures for those who have the most difficulty, or, to put it another way, for those who are at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1357	In the debate in the previous period on the National Transport Plan, the case-rapporteur, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, of the Workers' Party, concluded his speech by saying that she was delighted to see the outcome of the decision in the form of action plans that demonstrate in concrete terms what we can achieve for 22 billion kroner in addition to what the Bondevik Government proposed. Also in this field the choice next harvest can make a difference, she said. The choice is over. We've got a red-green majority government that in its government statement has shown that the election makes a difference, also in the field of transport. The Government has stated in its declaration that they will create a positive development throughout the country and that they will therefore increase their investment in the field of transport in line with the decision of the Stortinge during the examination of the national transport plan. Good cross-border and cross-border communications are essential for achieving national goals related to value creation and welfare, industrial development and regional development. Modern society requires fast and reliable passenger and freight transport, postal, IT and telecommunications services. The transport system shall ensure good accessibility for all groups of society, while respecting the environment and road safety. This requires a varied effort and a differentiated transport policy that can solve the different challenges we face in our country. This is well taken care of by the Government Declaration, such as, inter alia: states that the main objectives of the transport policy are to increase road safety, more environmentally friendly transport, regional development and an efficient and accessible transport system for the whole country. In order to meet these main objectives, the Government has outlined increased road and rail investment, public transport and the organisation of routes, maritime and air transport, postal and electronic communications. I'm just going to focus on some of the areas here, and I'm going to focus on, among other things. point out the importance of the Government acquiring a better knowledge of the impact of the tendering of local public transport, engage in dialogue with the county councils in this regard and uphold the rights of employees in the event of a transfer of tenders. It is also important to note that with this government no more passenger services on the railway are to be offered and that the privatisation and outsourcing of the operational and maintenance tasks of the railway works are to be stopped. It is gratifying that there is now an increased investment on roads, both for investment, operation and maintenance, and a stronger focus on safe roads with increased resources for road safety measures, race protection and pedestrian and cycle routes. This effort is equally important for the districts as for the areas in and around the cities. It is also gratifying to see an increase in railway investment in line with the decision of the majority of the population in the examination of the national transport plan, where the majority of the investments are to be made during the first part of the planning period. This means, among other things: upgrading the current rail system and the development of the dual-track rail system, in particular around the major cities – which is essential to exploit the potential for rail to lead passenger and freight traffic. Many people are exposed to considerable dust and noise pollution. It is therefore good that the Government will pursue an active policy to ensure that people are not exposed to health-related pollution and follow the national air pollution targets. It is well documented that noise causes sleep problems, impaired concentration and serious health damage. It is therefore also good for the Government to say that it will draw up a strategic action plan to reduce noise pollution by 25 pst. in relation to 1999 levels by 2010. Active efforts to develop and increase the use of environmentally friendly vehicles will also contribute to meeting these challenges. Finally, I would like to mention the government's emphasis on the fact that a forward-looking transport policy is also an increased commitment to public transport and the organisation of pedestrian and cycle routes, especially in cities and urban neighbourhoods. In order to meet the need for smooth traffic management and to stop the increased pollution from car traffic in our cities, it is essential to shift the focus from unilaterally expanding the road network to also facilitating an increased share of public transport and a well-developed bicycle and pedestrian network. This Declaration of Government provides a good basis for a much more offensive and forward-looking transport and communication policy which also serves Community values in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1378	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It's stated that there are now 25 speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1381	The government is now sending a challenge to Kommune-Norway. Now we are waiting for the country's municipal politicians to respond by translating increased transfers into more well-being. The task is significant. In many municipalities, it is not possible today to provide sick homes for older people who are in need of care. Nor do older people, who with some help can manage at home, get the help they need, because home services are often understaffed and depressed. I record that the Progress Party has found its response to this challenge: they want to relieve the municipalities of responsibility for the care of the elderly and transfer the funding to the state and the population. I assume that it is the experience of the party as a rapporteur party in the progress party belt in Westfold that has put them on such ideas. There you put the money on a book rather than bet on the care of the elderly. During the campaign, I was given the opportunity to visit a number of hospitals in several municipalities. In meetings with management and employees, everyone without exception underlined the need for more hands. I am particularly pleased that the Government will now develop a national recruitment and education plan for the elderly, while focusing on research into the living conditions and health problems of the elderly. We need to know more about the elderly's condition and needs. We need more knowledge and skills to improve the quality of care services. Here, too, technology can help us. In my home municipality, Nutterøy, we have used information technology to improve the provision of care. This applies in particular to the relatives of heavily nursing strokes and demented spaces. The use of IT ensures knowledge and security for relatives and other caregivers, prevents burnout by relatives, prevents or postpones hospitalisation, facilitates networking and self-help groups. The project, which was otherwise nominated at the 'use' price this year, has been exceptionally successful and fully demonstrates that new technological solutions can really contribute to improving the quality of life both for patients and for relatives. The fact that there is, in addition, a significant element of innovation and industrial development in this project is itself notable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1392	Elections with an electoral system giving a majority of representatives without a majority in votes cast have given rise to a change of government. The change of government is also a political change of course. It is clear from the declaration of the Labour Party-led government trio made on Soria Moria that it is evident from the Prime Minister's declaration of accession given in the Storting yesterday, and it is reinforced and underlined by the Prime Minister earlier today. I noticed then that he underlined the common value of the three new government parties, i.e. the common value basis for the Centre Party and SV. And that's also going to be interesting to follow the path further. But the relationship I want to focus on in particular is the workers' party government's emphasis on the fact that citizens are now to receive good services, freedom of choice and participation. Both the objectives and the importance of that wording can be signed by the Progress Party. But there is a sea of political difference between how the Progress Party defines good services, freedom of choice and participation, and how the Labour Party-led government does it. There is also a sea of political differences in the view of instruments. The difference lies in the view of the individual. The policy of the Progress Party is based on extensive trust in the individual. The common value base of the Labour Party-led government is an outstanding trust in its own ability to frame the ‘clock’ framework and make the ‘clock’ choices for most people. It's confidence that politicians choose better for people than most people are able to do themselves. Such a clear example is shown by the belief that the majority of the members of the board of regional health establishments are elected from municipalities and county councils. The party of progress has little faith that it provides treatment for multiple patients or faster treatment of patients. ‘We do not want the commercialisation and privatisation of basic public welfare services’, said Prime Minister Stoltenberg yesterday. Today he was clearer: freedom of choice is not privatisation, freedom of choice applies within the community. It is therefore more important for the three new government parties to provide the services than the services contain, and it is more important to ensure a public supplier than to ensure freedom of choice with diversity. It's a mark of old-fashioned socialist thinking about this. In 2000, Stoltenberg said in its Declaration of Accession: People want freedom of choice, the public sector needs to be renewed. In 2005, the Workers’ Party’s ‘renewal’ means limiting the freedom of choice. Freedom of choice gives the inhabitants power. This government will limit the power of its inhabitants. The Labour Party-led Government's assurance of good services, freedom of choice and participation is exemplary and therefore bad news for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1408	The Minister of Knowledge gives reassuring signals in today's newspapers about the willingness to follow up the main features of the Knowledge Lift. That's good. Kristin Clemet's promise of knowledge is the most important thing that has happened in public school in a very long time. The previous government started implementing well, and it would be very bad if this work were to stop. Now the Minister of Knowledge's message is not without problems. He will eliminate other foreign languages as a compulsory subject and give general study competence to all those who complete 13 years of schooling. The problem is that study competence is not something you get, but something you have to acquire through your own efforts. There is little doubt that this proposal will lead to problems for universities and colleges striving to implement the objectives of the Quality Reform. The change of government has also led to considerable uncertainty for the post-secondary schools. There is no doubt that the new majority wants to remove the new law on early school education, but it is very unclear what will happen instead. Some have given signals that one will return to the old private school law, while some have pointed out what they call the Christian extreme schools as particularly harmful. The problem is that most of these schools were approved under the old law, administered by Labour Party Councils. Where the new government lands is highly uncertain. The only thing we know with great probability is that the government will make it difficult both to start and run alternative schools. As late as the fall of 2004, the current government parties proposed strong cuts in support for fresh oils, and this was cut that would hit all schools, no matter what their purpose. When the Workers' Party would probably cut 525 million. SEK and SV a total of 767 million. It is clear that it is a clear ideological resistance and not a concern that so-called commercial schools should be brought into Norway. The government's attitude towards the colleges creates great uncertainty in my home municipality, Lwagal in West Agder. We have private schools that offer valuable education, which are a good addition to public school. It would be a pity if the new government in its ideological rush against alternative school offers were to take measures that would make this type of school a privilege for those who can pay for it. The gloomy truth is that this policy limits students’ choice of alternative school services, and since international conventions prevent the Government from prohibiting alternative school services, the paradoxical outcome of this policy may be that the right to choose is reserved only for the rich and prosperous. The government parties have long spoken of the fact that the colleges create uncertainty and serve rich interests. Now they have the opportunity to make these horrors a reality, if it becomes impossible to establish and operate health schools with state aid at a level that makes people with normal incomes unable to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1421	The policy platform presented by our new government facilitates a very happy development in the municipal sector. After several years of financial frameworks, in spite of the many tasks that local authorities are required to perform, there is a final time for a proper uplift for the sector. Over time, consistency between tasks and the financial framework means that municipalities can work more with and calm down their work on the renewal and development of the sector. As has been the case in recent years, renewal work has been under the heavy pressure of the economy. The focus has been on cuts in service provision, the closure of tasks that are not strictly required by law, and reorganisations to avoid large accounting losses. The focus has not been on innovation and development. Once the choice has been between maintaining a strong demand for help care and increasing the course budget to give new skills and knowledge, the last loss has occurred. So also on the investment budget: Necessary investment in new information technology and maintenance of the building stock with e.g. new measures or arrangements for people with disabilities in construction have had to give way to the necessary new buildings in the care and care sector. Municipalities have neglected the important maintenance, renewal and development work that always has to be carried out in a municipal organisation in order for it to continue to provide the services required and actually required by its inhabitants, and for the values we have in buildings and equipment to be respected and renewed. With the increase in free revenues already generated in 2006, municipalities will have both room for strengthening the service provision by employing more staff and, not least, facilitating the development of skills among the same. It is a long step forward for the municipal sector with the major challenges it faces. With a step-by-step plan for the local economy in the coming years, all municipalities will be able to get out of the economic environment and thus take on the necessary renewal and development tasks. I look forward to the work to be done in the municipal sector in the years ahead. There is no room to lean back in the municipalities. The red-green majority will provide municipalities with a great opportunity for innovation and development through improved economy, more predictability through a binding consultation system, local freedom and less detailed management. I am convinced that the local authorities will seize that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1432	The census for the year is a strong evidence that Norwegian government powers are in charge of own houses and are able to share with others a small part of the surplus that is created and administered in Norway. When it comes to the statement presented by the new government, there are many things in which I, as a Christian democrat, can tell me without further ado. But there are two conditions I want to use my measured 3 minutes on. We were two staging representatives in the previous staging who organized open conferences on human rights in Communist China. We had posts from ex-Silkinians from several countries who gave strong descriptions of what is happening in the very country when it comes to the violation of basic human rights. That several thousand people are executed every year because of their faithful or wrong ideological stand, are facts and can be documented in an overwhelming way. The attempt by the Chinese Embassy to stop the last conference we held here at Stortinget no in ours underlines the seriousness of this. The fact that we in the West are so blinded by the economic progress that is taking place in this country, that such tragedy may pass, is unacceptable, and I would like to ask if the new foreign policy regime we have now received will follow up this important work and this struggle. I am, like the leader of the Norwegian League in an interview with the NRK today, happy that the new government will hold on to the positions that Bondevik II held in the WTO negotiations. Now we've had some laps on it earlier today, so it's probably uncertain whether it's like this. The election campaign could sometimes be interpreted as if someone wanted to change their positions and go for another strategy. At the same time, one from government to even more open things on international issues. The Christian People's Party as an opposition party will not go into the trap of publicly criticizing state councils that are in various types of international negotiations on important, sensitive national issues, as we have experienced in recent years. I am thinking of criminal cases, or salmon cases, as well as what is now happening in the WTO negotiations. I also show in that context the comments of the President-in-Office who, when he was head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, warned against weakening the Norwegian negotiations in that context. Does this mean that more openness will change this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1445	The defence has been and is still in a reorganization. The number of persons employed shall be reduced by 5000. The number of square metres of occupied area shall be greatly reduced. The number of places where there has been military activity shall also be reduced. International presence also looks like we're going to decrease. This is good and necessary in some areas to get more out of every penny we spend on the defense. At the request of the Progress Party, the sharp end of the Defence shall be as far as possible, namely to drills and necessary equipment, where necessary. It is also good to gather power, for example. The army in Troms and Hedmark and thus receive total education, exercises and equipment etc. in the fewest places. This will also give you a more unified centre of competence for further development, in this case for the Army. This can mean a positive future for Norway and also for international presence and exercises. I would also like to mention that the number of Homeland Districts is greatly reduced, and that the number of men is reduced, to great scepticism from the Advancement Party. Now that we are so strongly contributing to international missions, effective and high levels of home protection are important. Overall, it must be said that a reorganization of the defence was in place, but in the view of the Progress Party, this process has gone too fast and partly contributed to increasing a somewhat downward motivation of those who work in the Defence. If there's something the defense needs, there's a positive way of thinking and not least optimism for the future. I have relatively long experience as a former officer in the Army. You were proud to wear uniform, and you believed that what you did was important to Norway and our allies. Over the course of my four years in the Defence Committee, I have traveled a lot in Norway, and I must say that is not all I like as well. This may have several reasons, but I would argue that horizontal trade has not been equally successful everywhere. This was meant to create an understanding of what things cost both in the purchase, maintenance, etc. But unfortunately, many negative cases have arisen. I have never seen so much equipment – among other things. cars and tanks – stand out in all kinds of weather, while the garage where it should have been stored is empty due to high pricing. I have never heard of or seen such little maintenance of equipment after practice or lack of periodic inspection. Nor have there been so few soldiers before, so short first-time service, or that they have been called for first-time service. You have added boats to the berth, and you have parked aircraft due to too little fuel or funds. These are the things that have been heard in Eastern Europe. Now it's in Norway. This is partly due to a lack of control and a partial lack of money. If we are to have a good and well-run defence, the budgets and objectives of the Progress Party must be taken into account. When it may seem that our Coast Guard can't stop a lonely, rusty and worn-out fishing boat, what's left of the Defense? I'm just asking!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1464	The Declaration of Accession announces a course in which to lift those who have the most difficulty, those who are poor, those who are too often easily forgotten. We know a little bit about what needs to be done. Working for all is the most important means of preventing social inequality, preventing poverty and ensuring financial security. We shall aim to eliminate poverty in Norway. It will mean a better and easier everyday life for many, including many children. For some of the most difficult children, it is important that the community provides qualified assistance. There are many reasons why some children have problems. It may be parents who are unemployed, parents with drug problems, children, and parents with mental disorders. In the last four years, there have been several poor children. The new plural has to do something about it. As the statement of government correctly states, Norway is the society of opportunity, and it must be the society of opportunity for all, for the children with and for the children who have it difficult. The government and the parties that are now making up the new Multiplicity of Storting, among other things. strengthen child protection in many areas and with many measures to assist children and parents in need. There is a need for larger resources, not least more people working in the field of child protection. The competence of child protection should be strengthened and cooperation between the protection of children and child and youth psychiatry improved. It is alarming that the number of child protection cases is increasing. Children need to be quickly provided with the needed care and assistance. In order to strengthen psychiatry, special priority must be given to children and young people. This must be done, inter alia, by: to strengthen day-care and outpatient treatment. We need to reduce waiting time within paediatric psychiatry. There is a need for a separate waiting guarantee for children and young people. It's a disease sign for our society that we're experiencing as much needs within childhood and youth psychiatry as we do. Helping the most difficult children is a task that the new plurality will take seriously. This is how we can make Norway an even better country to grow up in for everyone, and not least for the most difficult children.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1475	In the hundreds of years Norway has been a free country, we have gone from being one of Europe’s poorest countries to becoming one of the richest. In Norway, thanks to conscious politicians, we have secured local and national control of raw materials resources. We have secured hydropower, fishing resources and a living agriculture throughout the country through a conscious national policy, and through a series of political measures, national control over our oil and gas resources has been ensured. Norway as a nation today reaps huge gains from the forward-looking politicians have done before us. The right argued in the election campaign to make it easier to sell Norwegian hydropower. The progress party went in time to privatize the entire base. I am pleased that today's government makes so clear in its statement that it must ensure the local and national ownership of the raw materials resources, so that our rich raw materials resources continue to contribute to local value creation and a good economic foundation for our well-being society. Norwegian politicians have had the aim of ensuring that the whole country and the whole population are involved in the development of wealth. We've built up geographical and economic divisions. The core of the Central Party's policy, and now in the government's policy, is that everyone, regardless of background and place of residence, should have the same opportunities. The Bondevik government made itself a spokesman for increasing privatisation and partial thinking. It led a policy that provided the basis for greater social and geographical differences, not less. The liberalisation policy of the previous government threatened both workers’ rights and challenged the foundations of traditional construction industries. Employees and primary industries are currently in the same boat situation, and both groups are dependent on the will for political governance. Both groups depend on one having a government that dares to stand up to further liberalisation of world trade. The historical government cooperation between the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre must be understood in the light of this, that all three parties have a greater will for political governance to achieve common social objectives. And already in the harvest budget, this will be noticed. This shall be marked in the WTO positions. This should be noted in European policy. Municipalities-Norway will have an extension after Christmas, and the smallest municipalities with the biggest challenges will have an extra boost. The country has got a new government, a government that wants something, and that dares something. I am happy to start with the concrete work here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1493	In the last four years, we saw a rotting of Norwegian refugee policy that we have not seen in recent times, and I have the majority in the Norwegian people with me when I say that the Right Leader turned himself over when she, as Minister, decided that all refugees from whom the Norwegian authorities could not return to the country from which they fled should be thrown on the street without food and drink, left to unclear rules on emergency aid. The practice was slaughtered in a recent report, while a number of professionals have pointed out the debilitating period of uncertainty in the Norwegian asylum and refugee system. October 13th marked the end of this epoch in Norway, an era in which Norway with open eyes breaks its recommendations to show up as the most severe girl in the class. From now on, we are going to conduct a decent refugee policy, not naive, but in line with our international obligations, not hearty, but where we see the individual human being and treat him or her as just that, a human being – not as a potential criminal, but as a human being. We're going to increase the refugee quota, initially to 1,500 people, because we're going to take our share of responsibility for the 37 million people who are driven away from their homes around the world. We are going to treat those who seek asylum in the country in a proper way. We're going to give them Norwegian training while they're waiting to get their cases settled. Today, in fact, up to half of those applying for asylum and having their cases dealt with here are allowed to stay, and it is pointless and destructive to leave them inactive in receptions, as the previous government did — in some cases for two to three years or more. Once again, we're going to give everyone who gets protection in Norway the right to get their family here, and we're going to follow the UN recommendations more closely than the previous government. Just this is important to us as a small country, holding the international legal order. We're going to review the conditions for those who can't be returned to their homeland, and don't throw people on the street without food and roof over their heads. All the parties in government say in their programs that people will be able to get a review if they cooperate and cannot return to the country they have fled. We need to pursue a comprehensive refugee policy that is part of a comprehensive immigration policy. Here in Norway, the debate on immigration has been largely about refugee policy, and the right has been sitting in the driver’s seat. It's a paradox, because last year the number of refugees was about ten pst. of the number of people first granted a residence permit in Norway. This government is going to look and do as the United Nations Commission on Migration, which has recently put forward its position, namely to realise that in a globalised world where people study across borders and consequently fall in love across borders, marry and work across borders, migration policy must be comprehensive and decent, and such a policy will lead to a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1506	This change of government has created a new focus in Norwegian policy. The debate today has shown that it has also created a new dynamic in the relationship between the three former government partners on the civil side, and between them and the Progress Party. The new parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, stressed that we could not assume that the four opposition parties had a common political basis. She said that the Progress Party in some cases is closer to the Working Party than to the Right. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party placed the greatest emphasis on the areas where the party agreed with the objectives of the Stoltenberg government, and that was not a few. Many of the speakers of the Christian People's Party have been busy saying – yes, they have been so excited that they have stressed that they are now to make sure that the Government really follows up what it has promised. The leader of the left, who was otherwise unusually modest on behalf of the party despite fivefold of the group, also highlighted the consensus stronger than the disagreement and opened the door on fire so that the left could participate in new cooperative formations. The right parliamentary leader was the only one who took the perspective that the country's ability to meet the challenges of the future would be seriously harmed by the policies of the new government. The interesting observation is that the vision of the political platform of the new government is sprinkling, and that none of the opposition parties took the aim of embracing the leadership trough to build up a credible alternative. Yes, the Progress Party, which played this role throughout the spring session and election campaign, said straight away that the party would not work to create alliances, either from this pulpit or on the TV route. The debate has shown that the Right is isolated in its doomsday view of what damage the policy of the new government will do to us. One of the most interesting parts of the Government's political platform is European policy. A much more active policy is needed to safeguard Norway’s interests in the legislative development of EU cooperation. There is a need to involve the Stortinget and the specialist committees in this house more closely in this work, so that in all disciplines, we get close contact with the framework and opportunities of EU cooperation also on the policy to be pursued in this process. The declaration states that we should follow up good EU environmental initiatives and put into practice the best in EU environmental legislation, even where they are not covered by the EEA Agreement. There is a recognition that the EU is at the forefront in these areas when it comes to integrating environmental concerns into practical policies in areas by region. Doing so through EU policies means that we have a good environmental policy that affects almost the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1527	Based on the Soria Moria Declaration, the new government will abolish all discrimination in Norway. Clearly, there is a great deal of discrimination against those living around the municipality of Norway. There are major distortions in offers – from municipality to municipality – that are given to the individual. There is now a low tax on property in the municipalities. In my view, this is a division and discrimination at the most serious level. The parental care service must be legalised on the basis of the proposals of the Progress Party, which is on the tables, so that all older people can receive the same offer regardless of the municipality in which they live, and not be discriminated against because they live in the wrong municipality. The high cost burden of property taxes on individuals in the municipalities that have introduced such taxes — most often the socialist-driven municipalities — is also very discriminatory. Now it is important to live on the right side of the municipal borders – in other words, in a municipality that does not conduct an unfair, discriminatory policy, and where politicians are lucky, who do not introduce property taxes. The framework conditions for business have become very distorted and discriminatory with such policies. This is the case when this is up to each municipality and the Government cannot give clear signals: is the property tax to be invested in, or is there any other source of income? This is a policy that the Progress Party is taking a great deal of distance from, and the Government must abolish this discrimination as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1538	The representative of Svein Roald Hansen from the Workers' Party was concerned that the speakers of the Christian People's Party were supposed to be particularly enthusiastic about the declaration presented by the Stoltenberg government. It could be. At least we have expectations. Then we'll see when everyday life comes and expectations are going to be met. However, what I can say to the representative Svein Roald Hansen is that we are not very excited when we hear, for example. State Council Djupedal's description of the child care policy of the previous government. Djupedal claimed earlier today that the co-operation administration was not concerned with the quality of the nursery – after the outgoing government has submitted a budget that gives a boost to the competence of kindergartens of 50 million. NOK, and after we have received a new nursery law where quality has received a separate chapter, which has not been the case before. State Council Djupedal, however, would not answer what he was asked about in the change of line, where he also attacked the Christian People's Party. He did not respond if the Government will maintain the possibility of kindergartens going beyond the maximum price if the quality is threatened. When Djupedal does not respond to it, he contributes to uncertainty, not least for the private kindergartens, when the new maximum price is to be introduced from 1 January. I think the government will be clarifying the regulations that come with the maximum price at this point, as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1548	It is still the case that many people find it difficult to stand up and tell them that they themselves, or a family member, are being treated for mental illness. For this reason, it is still important to work with the psychiatry’s grips in order to find that mental disorders in many cases can be at least as serious as physical ones. Still more are some about this. We'll be happy for that. Unfortunately, it is not clearly positive that more people are being treated. There may also be a result that the preventive work is not good enough. The unemployed and the low-paid are overrepresented among those outside. Therefore, the fight for more well-being, for more community, against poverty and for a fairer distribution policy is also a fight for mental health. I'm standing on this pulpit for the first time. I think it's important that, as we sit in this room, we try to represent everyone who lives in our country – not only those who have voted for us, but also those who have not voted for us, and those who are still too young to vote. Last year it was more than 3.5 pst. of the children and young people in the country who received treatment for mental illness – 40,000 people. There was an increase of 17 pst. from the year before, and there was a double of the number from 1998. At the same time, there has been no corresponding increase in treatment provision. Over 4,000 people are in line for treatment, and waiting time in childhood and youth psychiatry is twice as long as waiting time in adult psychiatry. It's unacceptable, especially when we know that the threshold for seeking help is too high. When they first take the step and venture to ask for help, they need to get the help they ask for. The new plurality of Stortinget will improve the supply of people with mental disorders. The Labour Party, together with the other groups that form the basis of the new multi-annual government, will also introduce a specific waiting guarantee for children and young people, thus helping to reduce the waiting time in child and youth psychiatry. I hope that the threshold for seeking help will be lower – and that the waiting time for help will be shorter – in 2009 than today. The ambitions must be big. We have to put the list high -- not because this work is simple, but precisely because it's about some of the most difficult, most important, and most complex problems that exist, namely the problems that lie on the inside of man.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1575	For many, the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, is linked to major demonstrations and strong conflicts of interest. The ideology underlying the work of the WTO today, namely the free flow of labour, capital, goods and services across borders, is facing increasingly fierce international opposition because a forward-looking international trade legislation – which is necessary – must balance maximum economic growth against other important societal considerations. This will mean a new orientation for the WTO, and here I am at my first point. The new government's policy is to reorient Norway's work within the WTO. I'll draw out some quotations: «The Government will work to promote an international trade regime in which environmental, professional and social rights, food security and development in poor countries are given decisive importance.» Further: ‘Trade liberalisation shall only take place within a framework which takes account of distribution, basic social standards, the environment and national food security.’;» And on the other hand that ‘The WTO Contracting Authority must not take from poor countries governance and instruments that have been important for the development of our own society into a welfare society.’ And finally. ‘to recognise in WTO negotiations the right to produce food for their own people’. This is an important reorientation of the Norwegian foreign trade policy and can provide security for many people when this trade policy needs to be changed. What has recently been most prominent in the WTO negotiations is the proposal for a reduction in customs protection for Norwegian produced and processed food. The proposed reductions in customs protection of up to 45 pst. It's dramatic. That could be billions of dollars. The possibility for Norwegian agriculture and the food industry to charge prices that are proportionate to the Norwegian level of costs will largely be determined by the prices of imported products. For an employee in the construction industry, this could be compared with a reduction in the rate of pay in Norway from four times the Eastern European level to two times the Eastern European level. There are therefore clear wordings in the government statement against social dumping, and there are clear wordings in the government statement in relation to income opportunities in Norwegian agriculture. It is reassuring for employees. This is reassuring for the farmer. The government is proposing compensatory measures against agriculture and the food industry if WTO negotiations were to result in a reduction in customs protection. In good Norwegian, this means, among other things. more money from the State budget for agriculture and the food industry in order to ensure industrial income. This is an important part of the red-green alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1609	I have followed today's debate with interest and noticed some posts a little more than others. It has, among other things, criticism from the Right Leader because the government of Stoltenberg will reverse – or ‘tighten in’ was the expression used – the Working Environment Act, and then with a reference to temporary employment. The civil claim in this case has been that increased access to temporary employment will help the unemployed to work. In this respect, I would like to refer to international research reports and OECD studies which conclude that this claim is incorrect. It is not the unemployed who fill the temporary posts. In general, it is the temporary staff who move from one temporary position to the other, which makes the situation difficult, not least economically. They have lower wages, they don't get loans, they have more irregular working hours, and they get poorer offers of continuing training, just to mention something. Increased access to temporary employment is not for the benefit of unemployed persons. On the other hand, there is no doubt that there is an advantage for employers, who can replace permanent employees with temporary workers' rights without rights, with all that it entails for each individual. Nor is it the case that more jobs are created in Norway simply because more temporary jobs are opened up. The workplaces are there anyway, it's just a matter of what employment you're actually going to have. A reversal of the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act, which deals with much more than temporary employment problems, which was also the subject of the representative Per Rune Henriksen, among others. this with working time and job protection – in addition to mentioning the addition schemes in the country – is correct and important. It is important for its workers, it is important for those entering the labour market, and it is good for tripartite cooperation in Norwegian working life, which is again important for the whole of social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1616	The new government has stressed both in the statement by Soria Moria and in the Prime Minister's statements on the political platform of the new government that industrial policy will be one of the areas in which this government will invest extra. That's good, but I'm going to promise that the Progress Party will follow very closely what the Government here will do. We will very quickly demand measurable results in business policy. Because if the Government really thinks we're going to be one of the leading, innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world, as the Soria Moria statement says, we have to start right away. We need to focus from word to word, and we need to focus on value creation, not on consumption – and the latter can be interesting, how the new finance minister will deal with that very part. One of the main instruments of industrial policy is to invest in transport, especially in the road sector. Here there is a need for a huge lift all over the country. Neither do we have any time to lose. As a representative from Akershus, I know well how hopeless the situation in our part of the country is. The situation in the country's most densely populated strata is so bad that businesses from all over the country demand significant investment in Akershus and Oslo. In my opinion, if this government is to achieve a successful industrial policy, it will be crucial what action it will take in the transport sector. However, my hopes for the new government are not so great in this area. The reason is that the government parties locally in Akershus do not show any willingness to make absolutely necessary investments in the road sector. Obviously, the government parties do not see the long queues that everyone else sees and that steal time from people. Obviously, government parties do not see the ever-increasing number of toll stations that everyone else sees and steals money for both people and business. When the government parties locally do not see that absolutely necessary investments must be made, I doubt whether the government parties’ colleagues in the government – and in this room – are able to see what everyone else sees. My question is, when does E18, when does E6 get through Eidsvoll, and when does Rv. 22? These are questions that people in Akershus require a quick answer – and immediate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1629	The government has given a promise of a cultural promise. Many former governments have spoken extensively about culture, but for the first time there are clear economic premises attached to the promise that is now to be made in this field. Until 2014, cultural reserves shall increase, so that the cultural budget has reached 1 pst by that year. by the State budget. Do we need such a bet? Is it not that an increasingly offensive cultural market is already giving us what we are asking for – giving us the freedom of choice that we all want? The rationale for a strong public cultural policy can be given along many lines. One is about a small country's fragile linguistic and cultural heritage that needs to be preserved and developed in interaction with the global cultural arena we are dealing with today with naturally. The second is about diversity, a diversity for which a good and strong public cultural policy is an unsurpassed tool. If we are to have room for both tradition and avant-garde, for the broad and narrow cultural expressions, is an offensive cultural policy, as the cultural promise puts it, the right way to do it. The third is about the importance of having strong artistic and cultural environments across the country. Some people think that because we're so few, we should centralize cultural life more. I'm against it. Just because we are so few, we need to have strong cultural environments, with small and large centers for cultural value creation – all over the country. It gives diversity and variation. It gives us artists who are both local and global – like a Mari Boine, Sami artist from Porsanger, who performs one evening at the community hall in Polmak and the evening after the salons in Paris, or Jon Fosse, a Western Norwegian and Nynoric writer, who is as current on Western theatre scenes as in Europe's major cities, or the contemporary artists of the Pikene Group at the Bridge in Kirkenes, who have for a long time been engaged in active north-area policies with extensive cooperation eastward, where everyone wants to see that the logic of the negotiating rooms comes to light, which takes over the art. The author Astrid Lindgren was asked in his old days what's going on to write such amazing books as she did, far up to adult age. Lindgren replied that she always had “a kind of playfulness before life”. And I think that might be a good advice for us as people and nation. A strong art and cultural effort brings growth and takes advantage of the play, imagination, curiosity and creativity, which, in turn, is the best basis for the value creation we need to build a good society for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1642	Investment in competitive infrastructure for environmentally friendly and resource-saving freight and passenger transport was important for the Left in Government. In our view, this will also be an important national task in the years to come. The left has focused on environmentally friendly urban transport with reduced car dependence, increased public transport investment and a higher pace of railway development in metropolitan areas. In particular, improved collective action in the Eastern region is crucial. Efforts must be directed towards reducing the growth of car use and making a significant contribution to public transport. The left was therefore in favour of a sharp increase in public transport and rail appropriations during the previous major period. One of the instruments is the launching of competition in the railway sector. Even NSB’s director Einar Enger has repeatedly stated that the NSB supports competition on the railway. It is clear that competition makes the NSB more efficient. We see that it works. The NSB is increasingly operating better and more efficiently while the number of passengers is increasing and prices have been kept down. The Gjøvik track is a good example where the NSB won the bid by over 30 pst. better offer for over 10 pst. lower price than they themselves took to drive the route earlier. It would be sad for the ever-increasing proportion of train passengers if the new government were to transform competition on the Gjøvik track, as the NSB itself wishes. Furthermore, it will be a loss in terms of better and cheaper rail and collective services if the new government will stop further competition and the NSB is deprived of a good and effective instrument that they themselves wish to use. This only affects the offer to the train passengers. I think on behalf of the collective travellers that it is sad if the new government chooses a dogmatic line that goes at the expense of better and cheaper offers to us. There are still allegations that the competitive outsourcing costs more than it provides. This was at least the review tone of the red-greens in the election campaign. The representative Schjött-Pedersen also mentioned this in his contribution today, and that is why I took the floor here today. This is not true. The process around Gjøvikbanen has cost a few million dollars, while the savings are over 10 million. kr. Now the groundwork is in any case done, so the savings we're looking at a small path is likely to be much larger if large distances are also outsourced. It is therefore sad if the new government stops this work which has obviously benefited train passengers in the form of better offers and lower prices. I'm waiting in suspense for what's going to happen!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1653	Environmental activists have always been active in a role as lobbyists. Now it may seem that their leading sympathizers have come into the government, and it deeply worries me. As a representative of the Progress Party and the Sogn and Fjordane districts, I am afraid that this could create difficulties for three important industries in my county, namely the aquaculture, tourism and transport industries. If these industries don't need anything, there are several protective restrictions. I will oppose this as a progress party representative from the Sogn and Fjordane districts. The marine industry, which is very important to my country, is now struggling because of already imposed protective restrictions on our fjords. The coast depends on growth in this industry in order to exist, not least because of a reduction in the traditional fishing industry. Based on the signals coming from the new government, I'm afraid that there will be additional protection, instead of what the industry should be given, something that we in the Progress Party have fought for, less protection and fewer restrictions, so that the industry can grow and become useful and beneficial to the districts along our long coast. I have the same fear of tourism. This industry has been and is of great importance to the bustet in my state. In the past, foreign tourists were largely content to stand on boat decks and look beyond fjords and mountains. Now they want experience in the form of getting ashore and out in our beautiful nature. Restrictions such as landscape protection, prohibition of motorised off-road movement and the use of helicopters prevent this. In Sweden, they have recognised the importance of a positive attitude towards motorised outland transport, close to tourism. This has produced necessary and desired results. Here, too, there is a significant growth potential for our country. This growth potential can be pushed away, not for realistic reasons, but for political reasons. Transport is also of great importance for us to have an active and viable business. This industry wears due to high environmental taxes on fuel and tolls. If groups like Lerum and Domstein, and to the extent that the rest of the business world, survive in the future, there will have to be reductions in the form of lower charges. I hope, in previous answers today from the Minister of State for the Interior, that the Government will urgently support the reduction of fuel taxes, so that important jobs in my county and throughout the country can be afraid.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1666	Unemployment in Norway is very high. It's serious for Norway as a society. But the hardest people who notice unemployment are, of course, the people and families who are directly affected by unemployment. In my opinion, the Bondevik II government has not done enough to facilitate people's return to work. The red-green government has a great responsibility to create a working life with room for everyone and to ensure that more people in Norway can live on their own income. Although all leave has to be combated, I would like to highlight in particular the importance of doing something about youth unemployment below 25 years of age. This is twice as high as the general unemployment rate in the country. It's a terrible signal we send to young people when the first message they get from work is that they don't need it. Too many young people go straight from education to leave. With our majority government, we have a unique opportunity to pursue a comprehensive and long-term policy to get young people into work. The Youth Guarantee, which gives everyone under 25 the right to work, education or training, is one of the most tangible things introduced by the new government. In contrast, where the Cooperative Government believed that they could get more people to work by cutting workers' rights, we believe that we need a safe and predictable framework for workers, just as the majority government would provide a safe and predictable framework for business. Nevertheless, I believe that the most important thing is what is written in the Soria Moria Declaration that we in Norway are going to create one of the most leading innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world in the areas where we take precedence. And if we're going to get it done, we're going to have to bet on knowledge. A commitment to the development of new knowledge and research is one of the best things we can do in the future. Norway is now in jumbo for research. That's why I'm very happy that we've committed ourselves to increasing the research effort so that we use 3 pst. of GDP in research by 2010 and that we will increase the allocation of basic research. All of this, together with an active industrial policy and several hands to hospitals, care, schools and kindergartens, will be what enables us to deliver on job no. 1: to get the whole people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1679	The Progress Party notes that the Government wishes to reverse the tax reliefs granted for the current year, as well as the tax reliefs proposed by the outgoing Government for 2006. Not least, we note that a government which in clear order has promised the Norwegian people to give priority to the weakest, also does not want to maintain tax proposals that benefit them with the lowest income. In the election campaign it was from the red-green parties to the boring repetition that the Cooperation Government and the Advance Party had given gigantic tax reliefs to those who have the most from before. Over 23 billion were the numbers that were used. If this is the case, it is a bit odd that the red-green government has doubts about the tax relief it claims to have gone to those who have the most from before, while at the same time choosing to drop the tax relief that benefits those who have the least from before. The red-green government statement shows a limitless belief in the public's ability to solve human challenges. It is true that man is the greatest resource in society, but the message is not to be misunderstood. The role of the public in human life should be increased and the ability and freedom of individuals to make their own choices assessed. This is a social view and a view of the individual that the Progress Party does not share. The Progress Party looks forward with concern to four years in which each citizen will have a restricted freedom to dispose of his own money, and where they will be withdrawn by the public for further distribution for the purpose defined by political better-wissers. This shows a fundamental distrust of people's ability to make their own choices and govern their own lives. Experience also shows that such a policy will not be more well-being, but more bureaucracy, more administration and even more disdain for politicians. The government's stated ambition is to eliminate all poverty in Norway. The government wants to be more concretely granted out of poverty. However, the fact is that through its declaration, the Government will make more and more dependent on public transfers and thus make a larger proportion of Norway’s population clients. So in a country where an increasing proportion of the population has its main income from public transfers, the government wants even more of the same. Through increased taxes, less freedom for individuals and increased bureaucracy, responsibility for their own life situation must be further powdered and left to politicians. This is a social development The Progress Party will counteract. One of the clearest signals given by the red-green government is the liberalisation of immigration policy. The number of UN allowances refugees shall be increased, with related family reunions, while at the same time softening the general basis for residence in Norway. At the same time, the Government is not alerting any measures that may limit the increasing tendency for non-Western immigrants to pick up their spouse in the country of origin. The consequence of this is that the annual number of new non-Western immigrants will increase significantly from the already high level of 12000 to 15,000 people per year. Despite the fact that there is a cross-political consensus that alternating governments have failed to integrate non-Western immigrants, the new government therefore chooses to increase the number. So the government knowingly increases the risk of major cultural and religious conflicts, while paradoxically increasing the number of poor people in the country, as shown by the figures of the Statistical Central Bureau in today's edition of the Evening Post. The fact that no other country has succeeded in integrating and therefore tightens up is clearly not the concern of the government of Stoltenberg. Not a single task is obviously too great for a socialist welfare state with great growth ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1696	Naturally, this debate has focused primarily on what you expect to happen, and what you want to do. The new government has not been sitting for many days and has not been doing much yet. So it's not possible to test to what extent it's really going to be like that. So the government is to be congratulated on the ability to implement what they want to do. But at one point they're already in the process. It is in the WTO field, and in this area it is now increasing confusion. The Minister of Agriculture was injured to give the impression that the current government gave less than the previous one. That's not right. What the previous government did was to clarify relative to the Stortinge position in terms of market access. This has been the basis and acceptance of the sitting government, as far as we can see from the information we have received, but in addition, the sitting government has provided some internal support. I think that's very good, because I think you found the right time to give this to you. It's just that then the Minister of Agriculture can't go around saying that you give less. No, you give more: all that the Bondevik government gave, plus the internal support. That's good, and that should be accepted. I realize that for a party that built a huge drop height just a week and a half ago, it's now turning 180 degrees and having its back right at the same time not easily, but I actually think you should. The other thing I want to say was Lundtegen who put me on. If this is the case – and of course it is – that Soria Moria has agreed on everything that Lundtigen referred to, I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. That is: does it now mean that the government will quickly come back to the Storting with changed positions in relation to the Hong Kong meeting? Does he evaluate it so that it is necessary? Does he evaluate it so that it's going to be okay with the G10 countries? And what form and time will he then choose for this new review?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1705	The people have now spoken in elections, and we have received a majority government and a new and exciting focus in Norwegian politics. I and many with me will praise the Centre Party, SV and my own party, the Workers' Party, with the leadership in mind, for the will, the ability and not least the hard work to achieve this. One gave the people the opportunity to choose a red-green majority and a new course, and so it was. There are clear values that have been at the heart of all the red-green parties in all the years, which are dominated by the platform, namely community and justice. It's values that give individual security and thus give individual freedom to live a good life. There are values that give all people, no matter what wallet, a new and good everyday life. And we, in the red-green majority on the Bighold, are delighted to take on this work together with the Government. Then it is incredibly good to read the platform and hear the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance today state so clearly that there should be no poverty in the world's richest country, and that one should come up with a comprehensive plan against poverty, where those who know best should also be heard. Equally, it is good to see that one should have a high focus on combating poverty and poverty internationally, and that one should work actively for sustainable development. We've always meant this, but now we're in the majority and have the opportunity to put this into life. Then it must sound strange in the ears of people and shine like a paradox that several central right-wing representatives here today say that the red-greens come to the covered table, when one knows what kind of job is waiting, and not least when one knows what thousands of people know about the body every single day. Many of those who know this on the body are people who have only been able to dream about a covered table, or just sitting down and having something on the table at all. That is why I find it pointless to have a debate on the definition of poverty by some opposition representatives. One should rather be concerned about the kind of action to be taken. At least that's what we in the red-green parties and our government are concerned about. Then the platform and declaration of the cultural hearts are very happy. We're saying that culture is one of the areas of activity. We're saying that culture is not just cake sticks, but that it's something that's vital. Therefore, finally, what the representative, Mr Solberg, said earlier today, that a red-green government will be a government for the lost opportunities is not right. No, on the contrary, there will be a government to take up and see all the opportunities that others have lost on the road, or have walked right past without looking back.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1719	The Declaration of Government, which we are debating today, has at least a significant chapter for the Central Party. It is the message that a new and comprehensive fisheries policy, a fisheries policy that is to give national power and control over our marine resources and our marine areas, is to be pursued. This statement states that we must work intensively to stop the unregulated fishing in the Barents Sea, draw up a national strategy for the development of this important industry, not privatising fishing resources, and introduce recruitment quotas to remedy a situation where young people are virtually completely excluded from participating in and entering this fishing. We want a decentralised reception structure. The renewal of the coastal fishing fleet with its own programme is sought and an official quality labelling of Norwegian fishery products is desired. It will promote quality over volume and allow the fishing industry to take more out of the market. This is just to mention some of the important elements that are in the statement. Why is this necessary? We have behind us a period characterized by the privatisation of an all-man right. It has resulted in a centralisation of ownership rights, centralisation of the receiver and a focus on quality rather than volume. This is a threat to and a weakening of many coastal communities, and we see trends in Icelandic conditions, with quotas per year. years. That is why we want and see the need to set up a rapid selection which looks at and evaluates the current fisheries policy and its consequences. The parties hope that this announced review of the fisheries sector will give rise to a broad debate in this Chamber on the country’s second most important industry, which has the potential to become a sustainable industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1726	We have put behind us a long election campaign, where fundamental common values such as health, care, education and work for all have been the topic of review in the political debate. This value debate was set up against the tax relief of the right-hand side and the privatisation of the welfare services of the Community. It gave the voters the opportunity to choose between clear, policy options in Norwegian policy, where one on the one hand had bourgeois parties who wanted a more market-friendly provision of health and care, and where our common schools were to be privatised. Under the Bondevik administration, we have had far fewer hands to provide our elderly with safe and good care for the elderly. We have seen that many industrial jobs have been lost, and that many have stood without fixed income to support both the family and themselves. The voters wanted a different course. They wanted a government that would provide access to good and equivalent health and care services, and a common school where everyone would have the opportunity to develop their own skills from their own point of view. The political platform now presented by the new government has met the expectations of the voters. 5.4 billion more in free resources for the municipal sector will be added to the budgets and plans for better and safer care for the elderly and a single school for all. Unlike the Progress Party, we believe that our elected representatives in all the municipalities of the country are able to facilitate these common values. It's not that all the common sense is collected in this room. The guarantee that no local hospital will be closed, and that one will maintain a decentralised hospital service to ensure proximity to emergency facilities and food services, has been accepted with great pleasure around the country and at our local hospital in Trøndelag. Strengthening the economy of hospitals, so that more patients are treated and waiting time is reduced, will improve the quality of our hospitals and patients. If St. Olav’s Hospital in Trondheim and other regional hospitals are to be able to meet the expectations of quality in treatment and short waiting, the entire investment regime for healthcare companies needs to be reviewed in order to find good development solutions without affecting patient provision. Taxes have been the subject of a review in this debate, in which one representative after another from the bourgeois parties has expressed great concern as to where the tax increase will come. Over the past four years, we have seen a sharp increase in the tax on disease through increased excesses. It is therefore good to see that the new government will reduce and keep health services at a low level. Unlike the previous government, the new red-green government is showing a willingness to invest in a strong public welfare offer by providing all opportunities and security – the most fundamental thing in our welfare society. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that this is a modern and forward-looking policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1743	It was with pleasure that I read in the government statement that the three parties have realised that strengthening criminal justice is the biggest challenge in the criminal system. When one reads the budgetary position of the former government and sees the low level of investment in prisons and new prisons, the Progress Party looks forward to the new government presenting its additional proposal and following up the government statement at this point. The statement states that a concrete plan for the closure of the cows will be drawn up and one will build more prisons and expand the settlement capacity of the existing prisons. But it's a stanza from a song that beats me when I read the government statement on the extension of the use of community punishment: 'Let the prisoners go, it's ours!' Many of us thought it was a joke when SV walked around in the election campaign and proposed home reconciliation for criminals. But we now see that they've got a lot of penetration. The government will extend the use of community sanctions, as stated in the statement. It is self-contradictory that one should strengthen criminal law and, at the same time, expand the use of community sanctions. This hits the victim twice. Is this widespread use of social sanctions at the expense of more efforts to prevent, police and build and operate our prisons? It remains to be seen. The Progress Party will take a great deal of distance from the widespread use of community sanctions for gross crimes and moral crimes. During the examination of the new penal code, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party agreed to allow young offenders to receive community sanctions for serious violent crimes as well as for moral crimes. Who's going to define this? The representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten spoke about the TV action on Sunday and about serious crimes committed against women both in the world and in Norway. It's these criminal Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are going to zone community punishment. Who's to be taken care of here? Is it the criminal, or is it the victim? Now it's time for the justice politicians in this country to go home to the families who are victims of criminals, and not just go around prisons to see how tough those who are there have it. Extending the use of social sanctions is a mockery of the victim, and it is contrary to people's legal opinion. The Progress Party will invest in prevention, more money for police, more prison sites and money for their operation. Over the next four years, we have to put our trust in the fact that it's the Center Party that gets an impact from the SV and the Workers' Party in the Social Penalty Debate. The Central Party’s programme of enlargement states that they will have stricter penalties for cases of gross violence, crime and child abuse. I interpret the Central Party so that they disagree with the other two government parties, which say that they should extend the use of social sanctions in terms of gross violence and moral crimes. Increased use of community sanctions is not a more severe punishment. Becoming a victim is something you become involuntary, but committing a criminal act is something you choose to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1765	In the election campaign, the red-green parties and their top candidates in the North Trondelag promised that predatory policies would be re-treated. In the past few years, we have been heavily plagued with special bears and now also wolves. In fact, it has been so bad that more and more communities in the community have gradually moved away. The policy of the majority has led, among other things, to: The members of the municipality now have to say that they have been converted from sheep to bear. In the election campaign, the candidates of the Central Party in particular were very clear that they do not support today's predatory policy and that they would support the proposals of the Progress Party in the Stortingen to re-approve predatory policies. In Trønder-Avisa on 7 September we saw that the rapporteur, Mr Langsavold, came with a force-salve and claimed that: ‘The situation is completely out of control.’ In today's edition of Namdalsavisa, rapporteur Arnodd Lillemark says that both he and the inhabitants have been fooled by management and researchers in the last 20 years. He also says that he experiences the same thing again now, when a wolf is about to establish himself in the municipality. In other words, the situation is very intense, and it is very frustrating. When the Government says it will pursue an active agricultural policy that will lead to housing and employment, it is not linked. This is clearly seen in the Nord-Trøndelag, where those engaged in the field industry give up as a result of today's predatory policy. The Labour Party's first candidate and current councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen promised in debates to address the predator issue in the government negotiations. It's done too. At least we can see from the Soria Moria statement that the issue has been assessed. The conclusion is that the financial support schemes should be strengthened, even increased significantly, while increasing the emphasis on local knowledge. It's positive. At the same time, unfortunately, the promises given to address the core of the problem, namely the stock targets, are not being followed up. The declaration states that stock targets should be assessed on the basis of impact on grazing, grazing animals and on the quality of life of people in predatory areas. At the same time, it is emphasised that the 2004 United Kingdom Review on the Policy of Crustaceans is based and monitored at all levels. The problem is simply that there are too many predators in Norwegian nature. But at the top of it all, it has been decided to significantly increase the population beyond existing strains. Compensating for economic losses is important, but it does not solve the problems. More and more of the few who are still engaged in outings in the Nord-Trøndelag, now say clearly that enough is enough, and that they give up. This cannot continue, and I must say that I am not directly impressed by what the red-green parties have agreed on. I also had greater hopes for the Nordic candidates from both SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre after the promises made in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1783	The WTO process is based on three pillars: export subsidies, market access and internal support. Export subsidies, and related issues, were in practice clarified in Geneva on 31 July 2004. Then the Bondevik II government promoted proposals for new positions on market access a week and a half ago, and new positions were promoted on internal support this week. Of the three pillars, I believe, all in this Chamber agree that the positions relating to market access are those which have the greatest impact on the prospects for offensive agricultural and rural policy in the future. In practice, the positions promoted in this area will mean a reduction in price levels in Norway above NOK 3 billion. This means that the basis for calculating the shielding support in Yellow Box is reduced accordingly. When reduced accordingly, it also means that there is more air in that box compared to taking any cut in Yellow Box on the shielding support. This means that the positions presented by the new government, which have been transmitted and which are now being negotiated with the G10 countries, are quite different from those previously presented. So it's not right, as others said here, that those positions are more serious than those that have been promoted in the past. Regarding the question from Petersen's representative about changed positions, I gave a clear answer to that in the lines earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1790	In a reply today, Inge Wohnung stated the following: ‘I have registered that the new government is flagging the national high. It has been a very long time since some Norwegian government in its government platform have used ‘national’ as a unique honorary word. It may be possible to return to the party of government for which Ryan has now become the parliamentary leader, since it is the only party that uses the word ‘socialist’ in its name, that perhaps it is a cross of thought that exactly a socialist party is so enormously concerned with national and national special interests, because at least historically, when we speak history, the combinations of the words ‘national’ and ‘socialism’ are not exactly what has been most successful in the course of history.’ I think it is disappointing that such a characteristic of a party and such an indication of a party coming from the Right, not least that it comes from such an experienced representative as Inge Wohnning, who has been the vice president of the Stortinget, and who is now president of the Laginget. It is very surprising that he chooses to be at such a level of debate. I have to say that I hope this is not something that will repeat itself, that it will be a common form from the Right to characterize parties and make such suggestions, when we are going to have a serious debate in our National Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1802	We are approaching – perhaps – the end of a long day’s debate. It is not so easy to sum up a debate that covers as much as this, but I would like to say that to me it has been a sighting that so many representatives of a majority government have chosen to make so many expensive promises so soon before the medal's backside, so to speak, to be shown through a budget proposal. It is the case that that medal must have a backside, because I base the Prime Minister's assurances that the rule of action is firm and that the level of taxation should not be increased beyond the level of 2004. So strong willingness to prioritize differently, to spend new money, must mean significant cuts in the budget. But a few days after a government change, the state councils deserve to get warm in the trough, so it's probably right to measure the opposition's voice usage after that. But I would nevertheless be surprised to learn something about Kristin Halvorsen's first post as Minister of Finance from this pulpit, at a time when there is considerable unrest in the financial markets. I suggest that it is not because it has become a new finance minister, but that there is considerable concern. We read in today's newspapers that foreigners flee from Børsen and move their money away from investments in Norway. Then there was a need for a finance minister who had sent clear security signals to the Norwegian economy that certain sizes were fixed, more than the short sentences said with a smile from the pulpit. I have to say that I'm wondering something about it. There has also been a small round of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, which has provided a basis for some confusion. I understand that the Minister of Agriculture and Food tried to sort it out to some extent – and was also able to. The whole point of this question is that market access concessions were granted from the outgoing government, which was anchored with the parliamentary leaders of the Stortinget, and which we have been confirmed after the government change that the new government is behind. At least you haven't taken any steps to withdraw this or leave the G10 negotiations. It's on the ground. It was the position of the outgoing government, and that's the position of the new government. In addition, the new government has now made new concessions on internal support. It probably also supports us who were in the old government, but we think it's important to say that this sums up. It has, for example, The farmer’s manager understood today after a meeting with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said that at the top of this issue there were questions about cuts in internal support. In sum, this means dramatic constraints, and that's what's at the very heart of this point. The movements continue, and it accumulates, and that's the sum of these that produce the effects. Otherwise, I agree that customs issues are the most crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1815	I think it is right to give an answer to the representative Ryan. He forgot in his quote the context in which our exchange of lines fell. In my post, I spoke exclusively about foreign policy. I pointed out that the new government says that ‘the carriers of our international commitment will be our membership of NATO, the EEA Agreement and the fact that Norway is not a member of the EU.’ I allowed myself to point out that the interesting thing about this government constellation is that on all the three points that it defines itself as the supports, everyone knows that there is a great deal of disagreement between the three government parties. To this, Ryan chose to take a line, asking for my view of national ownership of natural resources. I have to say that came a little surprised at me. That's why I found reason to express some wonder that the new government is flagging the national as one of its highest values. It says in its value platform that the national cultural heritage comes before what is called humanistic ideas and values. It has been quite a long time since a Norwegian government has flagged just the national with a positive sign so strongly. And it must be allowed to suggest that it is particularly surprising when it is for the first time a Norwegian government has a party with which socialism is already flagged in its party name. Because I actually thought it had something to order with the International, and it wasn't primarily concerned with the national and protecting national special interests. But if the SV parliamentary leader needs an insurance from me that I do not regard SV as a national socialist party, that insurance is given.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1826	It's late at night. There have been many good posts, from whatever point of view you had to assess them. There have been many who have talked about their ambitions and their function and their joy at what they are going to grasp. It has excited the expectations of the government that has now joined, loudly, so I regret to think that many will have to think well about their contributions when reality overtakes us in the weeks and years to come. It is such that the Minister of Finance has a formidable challenge in implementing the Soria Moria Declaration, and there is a formidable challenge in just gradually meeting the expectations of his own representatives in this debate. Throughout the election campaign, I asked when we were going to hear about the red-green wonder package, and when it was to be packed up. We did not get that before the election day had arrived, and we have not really got it yet. It has almost become like a package of the kind you make to have the extra fun, where you unpack one package gradually, in more and more glossy paper, and eventually the core comes. It is that priorities are an important part of the job we are going to do as politicians. It's going to be a big challenge to do this with the constraints you've set. I remind you that there have been promises not to increase taxes more than up to 2004 levels. I would like to remind you that at the same time it is promised that no more oil money will be used than the rule of action. It is not consistent with the ability to honour the promises made in the election campaign or the programme platform submitted by the Government. It will be a challenge to meet the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. It has been difficult to find guidance on what it is then to give priority away. If you look at the alternative budgets of the three government parties for the current year, what was the priority of public expenditure? The centre party would not pay as much in the EEA quota as we had negotiated, that was half a billion kroner. Both the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party cut the cash support drastically. They promised not to do anything about it. In the case of the defense, all three parties have cut from 300 million. NOK 3 billion. And finally, the Workers' Party and SV have cut significantly against existing private schools. That was the priorities that were set in public budgets in opposition. It will then be exciting to see what priorities you set for public budgets. Because now you're being measured against reality, and you're going to have to know and defend the areas that you don't prioritize.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1837	My summary of this debate is that what should be the opposition's debate has not in any way given the Storting an answer or a clue as to what will be the role of the opposition in the four years to come, whether the opposition parties will use the time to fine-tune their respective batch profiles, whether they will in any way try to act as an overall opposition, or whether they will do as some claim: take responsibility for trying to build bridges between what currently separates the parties in opposition. It is gratifying that the opposition has accepted the invitation given by the Government to cooperate with all the parties on the Stortinget. But I must note that as this long day was to be the opposition's debate, it never was. I have followed the debate with both joy and interest, and I must say that what was supposed to be the opposition's debate in a new expansion with very many new representatives, including very many young new representatives, has actually become the debutante's debate. I have followed it with great joy and satisfaction, and I am really looking forward to continuing to work in this great process with so many new, so many young and so many capable representatives, who today have taken the opportunity to debut on the Grand Duchy's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1844	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1860	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 128]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1868	The size should now go to voting. In Case No. 2 will propose to the President that the speech of His Majesty the King at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 11 October 2005 be annexed to the Protocol on the 150th anniversary of its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1883	During the debate, Siv Jensen presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1907	The President will then propose that the Government's statement given at the Storting meeting on 19 October 2005 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-20-2.ana.ud2354e1992	We are now going back to agenda No. 5th@item: inlistbox
