ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e112	The representatives of Morten Höglund, Erna Solberg and Ågot Valle, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e127	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen is unanimously elected. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, be interrupted for the Grand Council's Christmas meeting at 1 p.m. 13.45 p.m. and I'll see you again at 13.45 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e145	Let me first say that the Riksrevision in Document No. 3:13 – The National Audit Office’s survey of local authorities’ responsibilities for school buildings addresses important issues. It is important to focus on the working environment for schoolchildren, because that is what this is really about. In the autumn of 2004, there were about 3100 municipal primary schools in Norway, with a total of 617 000 students. It is a great job and it is important that that job is safe and that the physical working environment is well maintained. We can talk about knowledge in school and adopt great and forward-looking curricula. But if the students do not have a good enough working environment, the opportunities to learn and take in knowledge will be considerably weakened. The National Audit Office's document is largely concerned with how municipalities discharge their administrative responsibilities for school buildings and how the State responds to its responsibilities. The survey includes information on municipal property management of school buildings from approx. 1/4 of the municipalities. It's worth noting that 40 pst. of the building mass of the municipalities are school buildings and thus constitute the great economic value of the municipalities. The municipal law suggests that these values should be used effectively and municipalities should ensure that school buildings comply with the requirements of the physical school environment under the Training Act. In most municipalities that are part of the survey, there have been violations of laws and regulations. 58 pst. the structural condition of the schools in the survey is unsatisfactory. The maintenance of the buildings is well below both a professionally recommended level and the municipalities themselves consider it necessary to maintain them in a good and proper manner. The Committee notes that over the years there has been a growing imbalance between state welfare ambitions and the performance of municipalities. This includes, among other things: led to a number of maintenance and remedial tasks being postponed or not undertaken. In other words, the administrative responsibilities and responsibilities of municipalities in relation to school buildings have in many cases been lowered in relation to other tasks. The Committee would stress the right of municipalities to prioritize between existing framework tasks. This right is the very foundation of municipal autonomy. At the same time, however, pupils must be offered a good working environment in school buildings that meet the requirements of a sound school environment. It is of concern to the Committee when the Riksrevisor finds that 2/3 of the 109 municipalities in the survey have a documented maintenance set-up, that the necessary means of maintenance and investment are not allocated to a small extent, and that for many municipalities there is a lack of systematic monitoring of the status of the school buildings for which they are responsible. A number of schools with an unsatisfactory structural status are in breach of laws and regulations relating to the physical school environment. The Committee has noted that KOSTRA, which is to be the country’s main source of information for reporting on municipal property management, does not provide sufficient grounds for State follow-up. Furthermore, according to the survey, the county responsible for the follow-up is required to focus on the income side of the municipality and not on the expenditure side. In addition, the study shows that this part of the country's tasks is of little importance. The Committee took note of the description of the assessment by the Property Management Committee of the municipal and county building mass in St.prp. No 60 for 2004–2005, the municipal proposal, and that the sample’s assessment deviates from the Riksrevision study’s impression. Although the Riksrevisions study is based on data collection for the period 2001–03 and the Eigendomsverwaltungsverwaltungscommittee gave its opinion in November 2004, the Committee notes that the deviations between the two descriptions of the constitution of school buildings are large. But it is worth noting that in recent years several independent trade unions have conducted studies that show that there is a significant lag in the maintenance of the municipal building mass. I also refer to a survey carried out by the Children's Ombudsman in all the counties of the country, which shows that many Norwegian schools are so falsified that they break the law. In addition, 16 states in the study that they do not have an overview of the physical environment in schools in the county. That survey was carried out this year. The Committee has noted that the Ministry will implement a number of measures based on the investigation by the Committee on Management of the Property, and that the Riksrevision believes that this will provide the Ministry with a better basis for discharging its national and overall responsibility for cost-effective municipal property management. Further development of COSTRA to ensure better access to information on municipal property management will also be an important tool in further work. The Committee considers that increased transfers of free resources to municipalities and other instruments, such as: strengthening the system of interest-rate compensation for upgrading school facilities could contribute to a better situation for the physical learning environment in school. As I was at the outset, I would like to stress the importance of the school and work environment of the students. There is a lot of talk in this room about important resources for the country. There's talk of oil, gas, natural resources, etc., but the most important resource we have is our children, and growing-up conditions and educational environments for them we always have to have a strong focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e181	First, as a leader of the committee, I would like to commend the case-speaker for his work. It is the representative's first job as case spokesman, and I think she has solved it in a forward-looking way. I'm not going to add that much beyond what the case manager said, but if you've read the settings, you'll also notice that the Progress Party has a small special comment. As the case spokesperson also said, students' physical working environment is particularly important. Studies show that, of course, it is the oldest schools in the worst condition. But it doesn't have to be like that. If you have good maintenance plans, you can get good school buildings, even if they are old. Learning and well-being hang carefully in hops. The well-being of old barley is not impossible to obtain, rather on the contrary. But it requires good maintenance. Old barley that is in good condition, and which is well kept by the same, gives great well-being, and perhaps even more well-being than new, sterile, modern construction. And the fact that students have a physically good working environment makes learning the best possible. It's important. What we have to take care of is that the schools fall into decline. If we want a knowledge school, it's important and necessary with a maintenance plan. The Progress Party believes that it is a national responsibility to have a superior oversight when it comes to plans and actions. That is why, in our opinion, the Ministry should draw up a plan that will allow you to come back to the Stortinget and have a regular discussion of it. National authorities must take responsibility when school owners do not. The working environment of students is too important for a single person to leave it to a debate on disclaimer of responsibilities between different responsibilities. So let's put our students and our children in the center and make good maintenance plans for the school building in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e196	It is not possible to disagree that it is important to have a good building stock and a good maintenance of it, especially in the case of school buildings. This revision of the Riksrevision confirms that the vast majority of rapporteurs and, to put it bluntly, the vast majority of parents have known for a long time that, in the case of school buildings, it is not very good, especially if the buildings are a little older, despite the fact that much upgrading has also been carried out in recent years, not least in connection with the 6-year reform some years ago. Then many school buildings were expanded and also rusted up. When there is a discrepancy between this survey and the Property Management Committee study, it seems that the last one has been carried out in the form of a survey, because it says that 70 pst. by the municipalities and 80 pst. of the counties themselves consider the state of their building stock to be good. It may show above some of the limitations on the value of surveys in such contexts. I do not think this audit report shows surprising results, knowing the situation in the local economy for a long time, but especially in the last four years. When there is economic pressure and little space for the most important and powerful legal tasks, things can be pushed on, pushed on, and not least construction. However, I took the floor to make a brief comment on the special comment of the Progress Party. It is of great interest that this party, with its historical basis, should now have more stringent control and plans. The purpose is good, so it gets to be, but the note really ends where it starts to be the most exciting. Because it says: ‘If school owners who are responsible do not ensure the follow-up of national objectives and requirements, national boards must consider alternative ways of following them.’ And those are the alternative ways that would have been a little bit exciting to hear more about, but Lodve Solholm was confined to asking the ministry to create a maintenance plan. One wonders whether there are any thoughts here that this too should become a state responsibility, or whether to put it away to private people who can ensure that sufficient funds are put in for maintenance in the rent.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e212	This is an important investigation, which tells us something we already knew. It is not particularly alarming to say that maintenance is a neglected part in municipal school buildings, just as little as I think it is right to say that maintenance is generally a neglected task, whether it is within the private sector or within the state sector. There is a tendency for continuous maintenance to be neglected; shippers are often taken because other daily tasks are more urgent when the economy restricts the freedom of action, which it usually does. The fact that school buildings are especially important, of course, can be said. I would like to say that other buildings – e.g. Nursing homes — also of particular importance. In this way, it's the municipalities that have to give priority. School buildings are important because they are young people, but also because they are jobs for tens of thousands of teachers. The Stortinget has now realized that it was bad until earlier, and therefore a special loan scheme has been adopted to encourage municipalities to invest in this area. The plan was to put at your disposal NOK 15 billion over eight years. So far in the 2005 budget you are ahead of the plan, and with the 2006 budget you are also in front of that plan. But in addition, of course, there is the municipal commitment to maintenance. It is ultimately the municipalities that are responsible, and it varies from municipality to municipality, slightly depending on the type of pressure you have on moving in, what kind of income base you have, etc. I think that the idea that the Stortinget should be invited to sit down and discuss a plan for all the municipalities of the country and the maintenance of school buildings is, to say the like, something on the side of our constitution, considering that this is a municipal responsibility. What to do then if you disagree with a municipal priority, you're left with a big question. There may be reasons why, in a given situation, a municipality prioritises things other than maintenance. It is not least in the social field, where the problems may be pressing for various reasons. I have to say that a giant who was going to sit down and try it out would undermine the entire municipal autonomy. They're the ones who have the shoe on, who know where it's pressing. And they're not in this room. So the idea of asking the government to make an overall plan for this, I think it's all on the side. On the other hand, it is more worrying that the KOSTRA figures do not give us an overview of what the municipalities actually do in this area. It should be possible to do something with simple grips. I also have a non-documented impression that the municipalities themselves do not have an overview of what they own. The largest municipality in the country was probably for approx. 10 years ago in the situation that politicians asked for an overview of what the Municipality of Oslo owns. That list was not found. Obviously, if you don't know what you own, it's hard to say how the maintenance is. To obtain such an overview and assess what is right for a municipality to own and what is right to dispose of it in order to release funds for example. maintenance is also an important part of the municipal task and municipal priority. Since we're talking about municipalities, I want to mention the largest municipality, the municipality of Oslo, as an example. In recent years, from 1997 to the present, the average annual use of DKK 1 billion in refurbishment or new construction of schools has been reported. It's been a conscious priority. There has been political disagreement; there have been differences in priorities between 1997 and 1997. But it's clear that there's politics in this, and one of the reasons why you've done it is that you've also freed building mass, i.e. privatised, or, in another way, sold the building mass the municipality does not have as primary task to own. For example, sales revenue may be: well used for maintenance. That's also one way to think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e229	The examination of the state of school buildings by the National Audit Office is important. The case spokesperson has done a thorough job on this matter, and she has also done the right thing for her here. What makes me take the floor is the Progress Party's interesting – I think we call it – reorientation when it comes to the role of municipalities. There is, of course, a unanimous committee that both describes the audit report and points out what the important choices are. When it comes to the Progress Party, the maintenance of municipal building has been the theme of the Storting in the last four years in connection with the municipal proposition and in connection with the annual budgets. It is even true that in the municipal committee it has, for example, been the case. The Commission is proposing a plan for the rehabilitation of municipal buildings. The center party has been occupied with it, not because we want to control the individual municipality in detail, but because the Stortinget etc. from KS Nord-Trøndelag and also from other states have received state reports which have been an important basis for the debate on the level of the municipal economy. In fact, in the previous period, the Progress Party could, if they wanted to, have contributed to a multiplicity of a stepping-up plan for the local economy, thus securing the necessary funds. We are some with the leader of the committee, the representative of Solholm, who points out that well-being and learning belong together. But maintenance and municipal economy are also linked. It is good that the Progress Party is now concerned that the municipalities have to keep their schools in order. I think of it as a new orientation, because I have first and foremost perceived the Progress Party so that it was uninteresting for them that the municipalities had special responsibility for the maintenance of construction. I then understand that the Progress Party is on track with those of us who here want additional strengthening of the municipal economy. It is also a co-ordinated committee that demonstrates that strengthening the system of interest-rate compensation and increasing the transfer of free resources to the municipalities — both these grips — will help improve the situation of the physical learning environment. With the lift that is already taken for the municipality economy for 2006, we do not think it is necessary now to make new proposals on own plans for the upgrading of buildings. But with the platform on which today's government is based, we take it for granted that it is important for the Government to follow up with the necessary funds to the municipalities beyond 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e242	I didn't intend to take the floor on this matter, because SV is behind the majority comments in the vote. But after hearing the representatives of Solheim and Foss, I want to stay a little bit with the concept of neglect. When I sat and listened to the two posts, I got the impression that the municipalities were supposed to have neglected. The person who has worked on municipal policy for many years knows that there is a close link between what you have to spend on income and what you have opportunities to do, including in the maintenance of construction. I think most municipal politicians – not to say all of them – would like to spend more money on maintaining the building stock, including the school buildings. However, when the choice is between cutting down on education and cutting down on the offer of nursing homes, etc., there is a strenuous community economy, easy to make maintenance of the buildings come in different rows. I fully understand that. I've been involved in doing that kind of priorities. You'd rather have a decent offer at the hospital than rust up the school building. I hope that with the new government, we will have such a good community economy – and it is very good after the first budget – that we can now afford both the necessary care tasks and the tasks with regard to school life, and that there is room to take care of school buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e251	It is important that, from time to time, we have evidence of the state of the public sector building and property maintenance, in this context the municipal sector. There are important values that need to be taken care of. It is part of public administrative responsibilities. At the same time, I think there is reason, after this debate, to remember that what we are talking about here is part of the tasks that municipalities have that are not subject to state detail management, and that should not be. The fact that a municipality owning a building mass is responsible for maintaining it, maintaining it and updating it according to national requirements and regulations is a matter of course and should not become a new area for ambitious state detailed regulators of the municipal sector. I have noticed that in the context of the shift in the municipal economy proposed by the new government and adopted here in Stortinget to enjoy many of the coasts, great attention has been paid to the fact that this increase in free income is expected to be used for operation – for care and school operations. I therefore do not expect, on the basis of the steering signals given by the majority in connection with the increase in the municipal economy, that it will necessarily be that the municipalities feel a strong State pressure to improve their maintenance of school buildings. I believe that in future election campaigns we will also be shown images of buildings that fall due – both church buildings, school buildings and other buildings that have been shown in the autumn – because it will simply be that how the municipalities manage these tasks will vary, based on the acute tasks. It will be part of their freedom. It is not foolish to maintain over time, but it is within the freedom of the municipalities to commit foolishness, and that freedom they should retain.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e258	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Footage, see page 1024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e278	Three out of four Nordics believe that there is corruption in the public sector. This view is supported by corruption experts who also point out that the challenges in the municipal sector are greatest. In particular, the challenges in smaller municipalities are characterised by small circumstances. In addition, a recent study from Transparency International shows that a total of 60 pst. among the general population, the problem of corruption in Norway is likely to increase in the coming years. It's a serious cross of thought. The very confidence in democracy can be weakened if the notion of having to know someone to get through here in the country gets stuck. That is why the fight against corruption and camaraderie must be intensified. Even though we're not sure about the scale, we have to deal with a lot of things happening through knowledge and friendship. Corruption means that people with positions and influence abuse their position to gain benefits for themselves or others. The benefits may be money, services or grants in bidding rounds. Corruption is illegal and can be punished by up to 10 years in prison. In addition, at the extreme of corruption, there are actions which are critical and unethical, but which are not criminal. It is also necessary to prevent such actions. Here we're talking about building healthy cultures. Equality for the law, regardless of who you are, and what you have, is an important principle of legal certainty. The main administrators of this principle are public sector employees. This responsibility must be pointed out and clarified. Many municipalities have an ethical code. In the opinion of me and the Christian People's Party, all municipalities should have such legislation, and this legislation should be referred to in the individual employment agreements to all those working in the municipality. I would like to ask the Council of State to consider legislating an obligation for the municipality to develop an ethical code. Ethics is not about living life according to the deduced guidelines. Ethics is something we should all deal with daily as the basis for decisions and choices we make. This is not least a challenge for leaders in the municipal sector. They must be taught in ethics so that they can both contribute to a high level of ethical awareness among their employees and can be good guides when employees experience difficult grey zone cases. It is of particular importance that the rules of viability be practised in a way that offers unconditional confidence that the decisions of the municipalities are taken on a free and independent basis. Guidance should be drawn up on the stability that is specific and adapted to the needs of individual municipal staff. I will challenge the Council of State and the Ministry of Local Affairs to actively contribute to the development of empowerment measures in order to achieve the objective of non-discrimination and to ensure that trust in municipal administration and local democracy is strong in the future. More or less unspoken expectations as to whether an advantage may be decisive for decisions on purchases in a municipality. Unexplained expectations may form the basis for municipal employees to be offered a well-paid position in business after large contracts have been concluded. Knowledge of the municipality's internal work and knowledge of many of those who work there can once again help the private company to benefit from subsequent contracts. In order to avoid such scenarios, which unfortunately are not entirely utopian, each municipality should consider introducing quarantine provisions for employees moving from municipal government to private business. Similar provisions exist for both policy management in the departments and for ministerial staff. Quarantine provisions should include those which, in service of the municipality, have tasks, networks and knowledge that the private sector will be able to exploit in order to subsequently obtain financial gain in an unlawful manner. I would like to encourage the Council of State to develop a municipal counsellor on this topic. The right of access to documents in public undertakings is one of the cornerstones of a well-functioning democracy. Furthermore, the Court of First Instance is an important instrument for the control of public activities. This spring, the Stortinget will be considering the Bondevik II Government's proposal for a new public law. The proposal provides for a substantial increase in public awareness. The new law will include, inter alia: is applicable to far more establishments than the applicable law. I'm glad that the Stoltenberg government has joined this bill. I am also pleased that the government has postponed the plans to raise the tender limit from 500000 kroner to 1.8 million kroner. kr. Such an extension of the tendering limit would undoubtedly create a risk of increased camaraderie and corruption. It is therefore alarming that the Minister of Renewal of the Media has clarified that an increase in the risk of corruption has not been decisive for maintaining the threshold of DKK 500000. She has also said that the limit can be increased in two years. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether it is such that the Government does not take strong warnings from corruption experts about the increased risk of corruption when the tender limit is raised seriously. I will strongly warn against raising the limit. Simplification is a justification for raising the limit. Corruption is a warning and an argument against it. The Bondevik II Government considered that a limit of SEK 500000 required the announcement of all public procurements between NOK 100000 and NOK 500000. This is in order to prevent closed processes and reduce the risk of maladministration. However, the establishment of the Lille-Doffin website has now been cancelled. Corruption fighters and former Vice-Chairman of Økokrim, Erling Grimstad, have commented on the Government’s decision as follows: ‘Now the Government has contributed to fewer concerns in those who use corruption as a business method.’ Jan Borgen of Transparency International describes the decision as ‘naïve’. I ask the Council of State to answer whether she believes it is appropriate to cancel the plans to establish Lille-Doffin at a time when there is evidence and evidence from several teams that corruption in the public sector is an increasing problem. The nature of corruption is that it persists for a long time before it is exposed to public light. This is often explained by the fact that many can be more or less involved in corruption cultures, and that many are therefore afraid that public light can cause negative reactions to themselves. Often it is the media that, through anonymous sources, brings knowledge and publicity about maladministration. The role of the media in corruption and camaraderie is very important. In this connection, I would like to highlight in particular the central role of the Evening Post in the roll-up of the so-called waterworks affair in Rome. However, I would also like to highlight the importance of providing alerts with a reinforced legal protection against negative reactions at the workplace. The Christian People's Party believes that when alerts meet with termination by the employer, the termination should be considered invalid unless the employer proves that the termination is due to circumstances other than the warning itself. I will challenge the Council of State and the Government to make proposals for the Storting that follow exactly this. Norway scores high on low-corruption countries. But even though we are far ahead in a global perspective, we are going to be the worst in the Nordic region. If Norway is to continue to be a country with low levels of corruption in the future, efforts are required from several countries. Not least, public responsibility must be conscious and focus on both prevention and control. Trust that the decisions of the municipalities are taken on an objective basis based on an assessment of all aspects of the case is important. Municipalities must therefore invest in raising awareness and training both among elected and employees in order to prevent and create conscious attitudes to corruption, stability and loyalty. It is the responsibility of the Government and, in particular, the Minister of State to motivate and facilitate such work. In conclusion, is it not true in our society that we are making crisis plans or contingency plans after the crisis has occurred? Is it not much better to prevent before the corruption scandals occur in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e336	I am pleased with this opportunity to discuss an important topic. Let me pay tribute to the representative Tørresdal both to raise the matter and to be so constructive and concrete in his contribution. I can only generally confirm that at most points I fully agree with the interpellant, and I come back to single elements. Let me first point out that the vast majority of trust-elected and employees in the municipal sector are acting just after the book and cutting off today's debate. Only during the time I have been a municipal minister, there have been several reports in the media about alleged cases of economic upheaval, lubrication and corruption in the municipal sector. The cases have been particularly related to municipal owned companies, but also concern employees and elected members of the public in individual municipalities and county municipalities. One case is one case too much, whether we're talking about possible corruption or we're talking about poor exercise of judgement. I am very serious about this, and I have already taken the matter up with the Municipalities' Central Association. In the consultation meeting with the KS on 18 November we agreed to take this together, so that it can be cleaned up. My task as a municipal minister is to be clear on the need to have a clean sector, and it is to ensure that municipalities have a patent law, regulation and framework. The preliminary feedback I have received on the legislation is that it is good. But I'm perfectly open to follow up recordings that can make it better. Good legislation is necessary. But many of the challenges we are talking about here can only be solved through systematic work on ethics and attitudes locally, so that there can be awareness of each employee. Here, KS definitely has a role as a facilitator and a supervisor, because the responsibility lies primarily, as the interpellant also says, in the municipal sector. There are shared views about the extent of the phenomenon of lubrication and corruption in municipalities. I don't have any points of view to say that there is more corruption in the municipal sector than in other sectors. I also have no reason to say that there is necessarily more corruption in small municipalities than in larger ones. The issues that have recently been raised in the media have gone to municipalities, state and private. With regard to the municipal sector and the issues that have arisen in the past, it is important to stress that matters are very different in nature. Some of the cases concern the ownership of companies, the liability of the board of directors and the establishment of a reasonable division of roles between the owner and the management. Some of the cases concern cases where one and the same person has several roles, e.g.: as general meeting and as chairman of several companies. In such cases, there may be questions of instability, but there is no need to have anything to do with corruption. Discussion on threshold values for government acquisitions has become part of the debate. In some cases, the disclosure law applies to companies, while in some cases there are issues of pure lubrication and corruption. I don't think it would help the discussion to put the "corruption" label on all of these issues. I believe the debate will serve to nuance it. It's e.g. the need to separate the general discussion of ownership management in companies from issues relating to regular financial crime, and we need to separate crime from bad judgement. Corruption and economic crime are inherently socially harmful and therefore unacceptable in all circumstances. The government is concerned with these issues on a purely general basis, but from my perspective as a municipal minister, I would also like to stress that it would be completely destructive to trust local government if it were to prove to be the basis for claims of extensive lubrication and corruption. The detection of corruption and other economic crime seriously weakens the trust between the municipal administration and its inhabitants. It is therefore absolutely necessary that we get things in the light, and that we can clean up. We need more knowledge about what the situation is. An important part of the strategy we have to tackle this is to get a better understanding of what are the actual conditions. In terms of law and regulation, we have, as I said, gone through it. Changes have been made to the municipal law which entered into force in 2004. But if there is a basis for saying that there are laws that prevent something from being done in a good way, we will probably catch up with it immediately. The regulatory framework for public acquisitions has been focused and was also an important part of the inter-pellant’s presentation. Transparency, transparency and reprobability may provide a basis for the detection of corruption. But it is not that corruption can be eradicated by public acquisitions legislation. The question of the level of detail of the public procurement legislation is also a question of finding an appropriate balance between the transaction costs associated with a comprehensive regulatory framework and the social benefits provided by the legislation. We need to find a reasonable balance between the interest of simplification and what we are engaged in discussing in this context, the risk of corruption. But let's not get to the point that we make the question of purchasing professional judgment a question of being for or against corruption. We cannot believe that legislation will solve all problems. As regards the issue of lubrication, camaraderie and corruption, we must recognise that there is little we can achieve through legislation and control mechanisms. No matter how good the legislation is and how good we have control, there is no guarantee that unlucky conditions do not occur or that criminal offences are not committed. We must be concerned about putting responsibility on the individual. It's the individual who has to be sure of his role and who has to have a sense of where the boundaries go. In my meeting with the KS on 18 November, I made it clear that the total amount of things that I have seen in my time as a municipal minister is too large, and that we are in danger of damaging the reputation of the municipal sector if it is not taken into account. This is completely in agreement with the KS. KS is now developing a process supervisor with a view to raising awareness of both ethics, social responsibility and anti-corruption work. Such a guide will also address many functions in the municipality in terms of both purchases, gifts and donations and the exercise of ownership in companies. In the next few months, KS will also be conducting several regional seminars to focus on this. Some of the issues raised by the interpellant related to leaders who need to be trained, guidance on the sustainability and competence measures for ethical awareness will be addressed in the work currently under way by the KS. I would like to follow up on the KS along the way and in retrospect to see if there is a need for changes in the law. Otherwise, we'll work with KS all the way to see if there's anything the department can do to raise awareness of the problems. With regard to other issues raised by the interpellant, the question of ‘whistle-blowers’, that is to say, on the issue of clandestine relationships, is a work being done in the departments as a consequence of the change in the Constitution § 100. There has been a supervisor in the past. It must be updated and amended in the light of the decisions taken by the Stortinget. As far as the disclosure law is concerned, we will follow up what the Bondevik government has proposed. It is also important in terms of anti-corruption work. As far as the quarantine regulations are concerned, I would just like to say that there is an interesting issue, which I promise to look into, and which we have not gone into. But it is quite obvious that the interpellant is involved in key issues in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e376	I would like to thank the Council of State for constructively addressing the many challenges in the wake of this debate. I agree that rules do not eradicate corruption, and that one case is too much. It is good that KS has come on track, because they play an important role in getting to a clean sector. I also agree that the legislation is good, but that is not enough. The municipal sector is responsible, but it is tidy to impose ethical guidelines on the municipal sector for all. In this way, small and large municipalities do not have to decide whether or not they need to address the problem. If everyone has to, it's the same for everyone; everyone has to have a code that they can't break. The state and the municipalities buy in each year for 250 billion kroner. In order to ensure the best possible price and to avoid the purchase of comrades and economic disadvantages, there must be both competition and publicity in the buying-in process. Nevertheless, the reality is that every six municipalities have not published a single tender on the Doffin website this year. Some municipalities have not published anything since 2003. This is despite the fact that, as a general rule, all purchases over 500000 kroner are to be published on Doffin. Unlawful direct acquisitions and violation of the procurement law may indicate a corrupt practice, and that in itself is unfortunate. We agree that trust in local democracy must be strengthened. It is imperative that preventive legislation is in place and that this is properly complied with. Municipalities manage permits and appropriations and are also large purchasers. They are at risk of being subjected to attempts at unlawful interference and corruption. This must have a conscious relationship with the individual municipality. It is good that the Council of State will clarify in the law that there should be a clear distinction between the municipal control committee and the boards of intercommunal companies – this in order to prevent anyone from controlling himself. The municipalities want more freedom and less bureaucracy in many ways. That's good, and that's understandable. However, the risk of corruption and economic maladministration in municipalities must be taken seriously. If this type of action is allowed to spread, it will rock through democracy itself. It is therefore necessary to have preventive procedural rules and tendering procedures, which are not least important to penalise elected officials who act in a critical way. I look forward to hearing other representatives’ views and assessments of this challenging issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e397	There are many interesting issues in this field that we could have spent a lot of time discussing. Let me just get back to some of the things I wasn't very specific about in my post. The inter-pellant suggests that an obligation to establish ethical guidelines should be laid down in the municipalities. To that I would like to say that my starting point is that all municipalities should definitely have ethical guidelines. There are already many municipalities that have it. I also think that as a consequence of the work that KS is now doing, the extensive schooling work that is on the stairs for the first six months of next year, it will be that further municipalities will develop an ethical code. I want to see, based on the processes that are now in progress, whether we can get ethical guidelines in place in the municipalities without necessarily legislating it. But I'm open to discussing it if that doesn't happen. I think we're going to insist that no matter how good ethical guidelines we have, no matter what we fall on the paper, we're totally dependent on the individual employee doing his job in a conscientious manner. It was quoted earlier here from an opinion by Erling Grimstad, which it is definitely worth listening to in these questions. He said in an article that ethical rules are not helpful alone. The American scandalous company Enron had one of the best ethical regulations in business. What matters is the process of implementing legislation. I very much agree with that. That's why I think the first thing we're going to do is get processes going in the municipal sector. There we all have a job to do to make those processes constructive, that we should not generalise too much, and that we should have a proper debate on this that makes us not all cut over one comb. But it is absolutely necessary that we have a public debate on this, too, and it must be possible to hold a public debate on these issues without anyone feeling that they are being drawn on. It is also in that perspective that it is very good that we have this discussion in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e408	Corruption figures are just the top of the Norwegian iceberg, they say. People in Norway are suspicious, and that's good. In Rome, a rapporteur had to leave because he had received welfare travels from intercommunal companies, NRV and RA-2, where there has now been a great deal of interaction between the waterworks manager and the manager's family and private companies. We're familiar with this from the press. Another local politician, also from Akershus – by the way from the largest party in Stortinget – is revealed to have probably spent more money on his political duties than he has had access to. It is clear that these two cases have influenced the view of corruption in Norway. In a poll TNS Gallup has done on Romerike in the wake of the waterworks scandal, answered 74 pst. that they fully or partially agree with the corruption hunter that bribery and corruption are as common here as in the rest of Europe. We and Stortinget must take those signals seriously. It's good that people see that the claims of Eva Joly that there's more corruption in Norway than we think are right. It is also positive that so many people would say so if they discovered cases at their place of work or in the municipality in which they live. The investigation says that 50 pst. will say from now on to his superior. Only 2 pst. I'll tell the press. I guess there's a little bit of a different vision there, and we're going to experience it differently. I thought it was the opposite, but that's what people say in the study. I also agree with those who say that it is important that the municipal sector takes the problem seriously and that it needs to acquire knowledge and take preventive action. These measures must cover both municipal and intercommunal companies and the entire public sector. It is also important to take seriously the rumours and enquiries of Norway’s citizens that they respond consistently to such actions. It's embarrassing to be politicians from Rome and Akershus. It's embarrassing when we experience something like this that we've experienced here. I come from a municipality that buys water from Lower Romery Waterworks, so I have probably been involved in paying a hunting farm in Africa. It's not a good feeling for us people. It is good to hear that the Council of State takes this seriously and proposes some measures, which I think are very positive. I'm going to follow this with the argus eyes. But we must have confidence in politicians, we must have confidence in employees, and we must have a change of attitude in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e423	I can only join the representatives of Thomsen in saying that it is embarrassing to come from Akershus and Romerike. I myself have lived by the eye, and suddenly there have appeared some new animals there which I did not know existed in the fauna there from before. That corruption can only happen in countries we don't like to compare with, hopefully the recent debate has done something about it. And hopefully, the focus isn't just a bluff either, because state business is a gruesome example of how, year after year, you've seen gross violations of the law, despite some public attention. In the public sector, goods and services are traded annually for more than DKK 240 billion. You could save over 14 billion kroner if the law and regulations were actually followed. Lack of evidence and transparency in procurement processes has been a widespread problem in state-owned enterprises that should preferably have had the economy and legal resources to deal with it much better. Small municipalities with partly low legal competence combined with everyone's all-knowing culture are even more perfect victims of the grey zone resulting from the public's not obs. It has been demonstrated that many municipalities do not understand where the limit goes for criminal influence, lubrication and bribery, and how many suppliers use it. The right-hand proposal to draw up a national strategy for enhancing the competences of the municipal sector in order to counteract this was recently voted down during the budgetary procedure. In the media and today, it seems profitable enough that the Council of State takes this a little bit more seriously, and I hope that the 3 billion extra to the municipalities will not only be a good Christmas greeting without a clear thought of how to ensure that no one eats of the increased load. I would therefore like to repeat the question here today: Will the Government take the initiative to develop such a national strategy and submit it to the Stortinget? The fight against corruption is both international and local, and then the question is: does the Minister of Local Affairs, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Industry and, above all, the Minister of Modernisation have a common agenda? What concrete joint initiatives will be taken? And when can the Storting expect it to be treated? And one more question: will the Council clarify the rules on the interoperability of municipalities according to the pattern of what has been done for state activities? I hope that the government in its celebrations against competition, market and ‘call’ right-wing policy is aware that the side effects of it may be that it becomes so cozy, warm, obnoxious and hot that you put out the red runner for more lightly activities in enclosed municipal spaces. Real competition may not be beautiful, and someone will lose. But at the same time, it is an instrument to prevent a few from giving an opportunity to thin us all. On TV 2, Harald Rønenberg does something he can't do every week. It seems that Frank Aarebrot, of a professional election scientist, but in the ambitions mostly, wants to take over that job as well. His play today against Eva Joly, where he is actually weakening anti-corruption work, is a good example of why we need a national strategy for empowerment and also mature gentlemen with a long speed in the municipal sector. If there was enough of that in connection with the revelations on the lower Roman Empire, there were people who knew a lot, but didn't say anything until it had been a long time. Worse still, people who ought to be better don't come up with sensible ideas outside and actually weaken the work of corruption. Finally, a very concrete question. A new form of control is being introduced in the municipalities: company control. There is no control of the number of red wine glasses, but of limited liability companies and intercommunal companies. Under the law, it is possible to organise oneself away from this control if you only have a mouse-private equity asset in that company. In the light of the experience gained with this company control, will the Council of State consider strengthening the legislation so that individual municipalities can not easily organise themselves away from this company control and approach more closely the pattern that has formed the basis for this law, namely the ability of the National Audit Office to conduct company control?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e442	From SV's side, we'll give praise to the interpellant to address the problem, and we'll also praise the Council of State to get into the problem in such a thorough way. I particularly noticed the importance of a dialogue with KS, which is very important in relation to this problem. Economic crime is something that SV has been working on and is making a lot of suggestions about before. It applies to all deflectors of economic crime. For example, we are making a private proposal in the previous period with proposals for a wide range of measures. One of the proposals, which received a majority in Stortinget, was that the auditor should be required to report suspicious circumstances in companies with whom he works. So this is something that we've been focusing on and being concerned about wherever it is, and who does it. We've had the goal of making it difficult, not to say impossible, for people in power positions, whether it's a private company or a public enterprise, to take advantage of the power position they have, for their own gain. Actions are: greater openness, clearer role and greater independence for inspectors. We have also said that one had to consider greater public control efforts and increase penalties. In relation to the public sector, it is clear that there is an aspect of public procurement for about DKK 240 billion per year. That's about. 15 pst. GDP. I agree with the interpellant that openness is an important tool to prevent corruption and camaraderie in public procurement. The interpellant stated that the Government has decided to continue the national thresholds for the implementation of competition for public purchases of NOK 500000, and that one does not impose a simplification obligation when purchasing more than NOK 100000. We've been saying that since the threshold values were increased just three months ago, a few things should have helped one have gained experience and evaluated it, before any one does anything about it. We have had the aim of simplifying the legislation and improving today's rules in relation to the municipal sector. So the government's decision is in line with what was the Bondevik II government's original proposal. The important thing for us to focus on is that the same threshold is, and the type of obligation you have, apply the basic requirements of the Public Procurement Act §5 to all purchases, regardless of value. Your requirements include: as far as possible, purchases shall be based on competition, prudence, transparency and reprobability. Thanks to the fact that the Government has provided voluntary Internet announcement on Doffin for purchases below NOK 500000, it will be up to the municipalities themselves in relation to the competition aspect. On the other hand, this is well known in relation to the compatibility, by the Government having decided to impose a protocol obligation on all purchases above NOK 100000. In addition, there is a matter for consideration in the Stortning on the amendment of the public law with regulations, so that one can no longer automatically exempt protocols. In addition, the Government has requested HMS and tax certificates for purchases above NOK 100000, so that one should be able to sell them out as one would have to be regarded as unprofessional suppliers. This underlines the importance for the government's party of having a code to prevent camaraderie and corruption. Now, we're going to have experience with the new threshold and we're going to do an analysis of how this works. In a press release from State Council Heidi Grande Røys, she points out that many violations of the rules have caused a lack of knowledge. It is an aspect of this debate as well. This is why the Ministry has said that one should address the need to strengthen the provision of public procurement advice. Nevertheless, it is important to investigate for deliberate and deliberate offences to have consequences. The Council of State has therefore warned that it will now consider imposing sanctions against illegal direct purchases, in line with a proposal from a working group that has looked at this. From the SV side, we are therefore pleased that many government councils will address this issue and have it in focus, and we would like to thank the interpellant for putting an important theme on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e459	I guess we all like to believe, as the Minister of State said, that people are honest. And I agree with the basics that it applies to all of them, most of them. But as also the county I represent, Oslo, and the history there and recent events have shown, so, unfortunately, there are broken vessels in all camps. That is when we need a good code, which ensures that those who commit this kind of act are put in place, not only in criminal law, but also in municipal law. Unfortunately, we see that in Oslo it has been such that we have only waited for police investigation, and have not carried out any personal reactions. Thus, it has gradually become impossible because of the time, and because the police have ultimately committed cases. Then I want to get into the matter of the tender rules. In the evening post on Wednesday 14 December, the Minister for Renewal says that they will ‘evaluate the legislation’ and see if they will raise the tender threshold further before tenders are necessary. In fact, she says to ‘make a new impact plan on how to raise the threshold further’. And they want to go up to the EU level. I am a little surprised that the Council of State from that party is so busy approaching the EU level, and has chosen precisely this area to comply with it, because it is clear that in the EU there are not so many municipalities that are of the size of many of the municipalities we find in this country. Now I think the representative Åsa Elvik was more retired than the willingness to comply with the Minister of Renewal's plan of action, and I really want to hear with the Minister of Municipal Affairs how the Government actually assesses this: Is it still a goal to reach 1.8 million. kr before you are invited to tender? So a couple of comments on some other issues. One is about the intercommunal companies, who may be living a little bit satellite in the municipal world. In fact, with today's legislation, there is no distinction between the control committee and the board of an intercommunal company, which is the municipal auditor. If a person is on both the board of an intercommunal audit firm and in the local authority's control committee, which is thus an option, he or she will be able to control himself or herself to some extent. Is there anything the Council of State might think of looking at? In addition, the representative André Dahl raised the question of company audit and the possibility of avoiding such audits if one has a smaller private interest within the company. I think that's absolutely reason to look at that, not least to ensure that the form of organisation does not become a pretext for some to ensure that you do not get the control that should be present when the majority of the company is actually municipal. I am glad that the Council of State in its response to the interpellant Tørresdal showed a very positive attitude to grasp this, and I also realized that she had had a consultation meeting with the KS where this had been the subject. At the same time, we have to say that the KS has seen – what to say – the anti-bureaucratic in this with tender regulations as the most important thing for its part. But I fully agree with the Council of State that we should have confidence in the municipal administration – and I believe that the KS is also completely dependent on it – that the balancing must also take place so that the smooth man and woman in the street feel confident that tax money is managed in a good way, by not giving priority in a way that is not in line with the standards we should have in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e480	I think the Council of State showed an open attitude and gave a good response to the challenges we are facing. I think it's good that the representative Tørresdal raises the debate so that we get it in this room, after the events we've seen this fall. But I think it is important to stress that most of those who work in the municipality, most of them who are municipally elected, and most of the rapporteurs are law-abiding citizens who try to do their duty and manage the financial resources in the most responsible way possible. The more important it is that we take on the negative results we see, so that not those who do a good job are put in a bad light by those who don't have just fair intentions. That's why the debate is good, and it's good with transparency. But I think it's important that we now not only focus on the individual cases, but look at the structures that facilitate corruption. In recent years, the municipal sector has been characterised by the fact that there has been a continuous process of change, with new forms of organisation in place and new boundaries having to be drawn. There has been a lot of new work. Much of the transition has occurred according to Margaret Thatcher's model, as with a motto called New Public Management, AS organization, corporate organization, which has made new demands. I think it's strange to listen to the representative from the Right, who's talking about light-sky activities going on in the municipal room. I think there's more light-sky activity going on in the enclosed rooms, in the steering rooms, than in the municipal spaces. I might not call it the shady business. But I think it is important that we raise that issue. One of the challenges facing municipal enterprises, municipal AS, is that there are many of the same people involved in many different roles, who have leadership roles or rapporteur roles. It's hard to draw the boundaries. I hope that, after the consultation meeting, the KS will really go into that debate and draw limits there, and come up with clear ethical guidelines in relation to the many roles you have as local people. I think it's good that the KS now says they're going to go into this with full force next spring at the regional conferences, and have a continuous effort to see how we, as elected people – both locally and nationally – can draw good guidelines that are easy to follow. Finally, I would like to make it clear that we in the public sector have a particularly high responsibility for cleaning. It is public funds that are made available, the Community's resources. It is therefore not too easy to deal with this issue. I think the Council of State shows an exemplary open and offensive attitude to the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e495	I would like to join those who thank and congratulate the inter-pellant for putting this topic on the agenda, because it is important. This is a good initiative. Some things are so important that there should be a cross-political consensus that, for the sake of our governance, we agree to find solutions so that we can clean up the mess. This is an example of that. Therefore, we should use all means of prevention, as the Council's response also gave clear signals. It is an important principle in Norwegian democracy that everyone should have equal opportunity to influence, and that we should be sure that local democracy and state bureaucracy are completely free of butter. Several have addressed the need for ethical guidelines. I agree. I'll believe most municipalities have it; at least the municipalities I know have it. But I mean to remember that a teacher once taught me that ethics is the doctrine of right conduct, while morality is ethics in practice. Therefore, it is important that we also do what we can to upgrade morals in relation to complying with the ethical code that exists, and that we have control mechanisms that reveal when ethics is not observed. I find it difficult to see any evidence that the issue would be more topical in small municipalities than in large ones. However, borderline cases in relation to instability are obviously more common in small municipalities than in large ones. On the other hand, there is often more transparency in small municipalities, which can compensate for it. But it's clear that the rules of viability are particularly demanding in small municipalities. KS's responsibility for training both employees and elected representatives has been mentioned here. In addition, I would like to point out the party's responsibility for ensuring that this is an essential part of the education we provide to our elected representatives around the country. Just integrity, independence, security in position, and therefore also the relationship to capacity, were some of the issues that arose on Friday when we discussed the law on the state's ombudsmen and officials. This is one example of why the Norwegian ombudsmen and officials have had a special legal status and security for their employment, precisely for the sake of that inadequacy. As the representative of Vedum, I am a little surprised at the approach of the right-hand side in this debate. There can be no doubt that if an increasing proportion of the municipal services are to be commercialised and become a business area — yes, even the sick home places of our grandparents and the school places of our kids are to become business areas — then the likelihood and possibility of corruption will be greater, not less. That development has gone in that direction should be a crossroads of thought for all the former government parties. A sheep that's ordered. With regard to the limits of public procurement, I refer to the thorough presentation by Mr. Åsa Elvik and I fully endorse it, and also with regard to the possibilities for those who warn, the warnings – which for some reason are called whistle-blowers – and their legal position in relation to telling us when something is wrong. Some have also pointed out that there have been many issues in the media over the years and recently, some about economic adultery and some about corruption. It's bad, but there's something worse than that there's issues in the media about economic adultery, and that's if there's economic adultery that gets first known through the media. I have the impression that all the parties are interested in contributing to the provision of legislation and procedures that allow us to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e515	The representative of the Valley of Dryers shall be commended for addressing this matter. It's a wasp ball she's sticking her hand into. We all know about claims that you have to know people in the municipality to get through, and that's a big problem at Kommune-Norway. Corruption is bad in any case, but it is worse if it happens in the public sector than in the private sector. The public depends on trust when it comes to managing our law and our common economy. If we can't trust those in power, who are we to trust? There are questions we have to ask ourselves. I also have to ask the representative of the Central Party that there was evidence to suggest that there was more corruption in the private sector than in the public sector. I would like to see the actual basis and documentation for that claim. There is a lot of talk about a lack of trust in the public and politicians. The representative Tørresdal referred to a survey that showed that three-quarters of the Norwegian people believe that there is some corruption, believes that there are doubts about the handling of purchases, and believes that there are unethical things happening. It should frighten us in this room. I myself have worked in public procurement, and it is a demanding exercise. Actually, my experience is now eight years old, but what was quite obvious at the time I worked in this sector was that there was a lack of skills enhancement measures. There was little focus on the work that was actually done, and that there should be qualitative content in it. I still have an impression, and the impression may also be that I am still running as a municipal politician in a larger municipality in Buskerud. We often come across claims and unlucky things that indicate that there are very bad conditions in several municipalities around us. We in the Progress Party believe that some of the problems can be solved with the Progress Party's funding model, among other things. in the case of health and school. With a direct government funding of this, with a crown sum per. students or per year; In fact, it will be less likely to be involved in local authorities and thus also less likely to be involved in problems. In this respect, I am incomprehensible to the claim made by the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, that we get more corruption through alternative models, for which both the previous government and the Progress Party have worked. It is in the nature of these models that it will actually lead to less corruption. With more user management through free user choice and market, and less governance through politicians and bureaucrats, there is, of course, less corruption. Of course, this will only solve some of the problems. Municipalities will also have some administrative and development tasks with the Progress Party model. In this context, it is important to have a strict regime focusing on the content of competitive tendering and to have clarity and transparency around these processes. From the Progress Party, we are sceptical about direct purchasing arrangements that provide opportunities for personal relationships and that personal relationships should be decisive for which suppliers the public chooses. We believe that the prescription is in competition and tenders and in a strict follow-up to procurement legislation, as both the family, culture and the administrative committee and the municipal committee said in the previous period. We also believe, like the Council of State, that political leadership and administration must focus on the unfortunate aspects of corruption. We believe that we need to impose stricter penalties in this area, and that we need to maintain the thresholds that are in order to ensure that there are no increased opportunities in this area. We also believe that the competition law we have helps to ensure that corruption in business is more easily revealed and can be more severely broken down, as we do, among other things. did in the Tine case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e530	I am pleased that the representative Tørresdal has taken up this interpellation, and I am also pleased that the Council of State in its statement confirmed that the Government is looking seriously at the problems of camaraderie, lubrication, corruption and neighbouring issues, and that she is open to looking at measures that can prevent this problem. We really have very little information about the scale of the problem in Norway. The representative Tørresdal referred to an opinion poll that shows that three out of four people believe that corruption is a problem in Norway and that 60 pst. is of the opinion that there is a growing problem. There may be a signal that people out there experience something in their everyday lives that does not provide good enough confidence in government. From the media, we have heard some serious examples of various types of economic adultery and corruption related to the public and voluntary sector: from the waterworks in Rome to a case in the State Road Service. The police in Oslo have had two cases lately, and the defense is working on one matter. Red Cross has had a big case with a court order, and we have the case with a psychiatrist and a psychologist who is suspected of having given medical certificates for financial consideration. These are very serious things. Less serious, apparently, is the report on the many municipalities that do not comply with the procurement rules. The NRK recently asked 40 auditors who are responsible for 300 municipalities in Norway. Two out of three of these auditors say they have registered a breach of public procurement rules. And the NHO believes that there are close links between the buyer and the supplier that are the cause of the breaches of the legislation. This also gives rise to concern. From the private sector, both voluntary and business, we know that deficits and actually pure thefts from our own business are a widespread problem. Companies spend large amounts on preventing and investigating such cases. When this is well documented as a major problem in the private sector, there is little reason to believe that the public sector should be fully prudent. I would therefore like to mention matters relating to public procurement, which are partly within the scope of the Minister of Municipal Affairs and partly under the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. The public sector trades for around 240 billion dollars a year. The municipalities account for a large proportion of this, and Norway has many small municipalities and many small purchases. Local authorities are obliged to tender for purchases above NOK 500000, a limit that was raised from NOK 200000 in September now by the previous government. So the tender limit was raised by 150 pst, if we see it that way. The obligation to tender ensures fair competition and good use of society’s resources. Another important aspect is the relationship to cleanliness and transparency in the purchasing process. Purchasing is a critical situation in relation to the risk of corruption, lubrication and camaraderie. The value of getting a job or getting a better margin provides the basis for unfair returns to those who may affect the purchasing process. Tenders, competition and transparency are therefore well suited to preventing risks of such problems. In fact, this legislation provides a good and preventive basis for preventing corruption in the public sector. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has written that the tendering threshold should be raised to EU level. The EU level is 1.8 million. kr, at the current threshold of 500 000 kr in Norway. This means, in practice, removing large parts of the purchases from the local government sector from the obligation to tender and transparency. To the extent that the Government may influence the extent of corruption and cameraing, this will be a grip that opens up to more of this problem. I am therefore pleased that the Government has now made sense and decided to continue the tender threshold of NOK 500000, as established by the previous government. On the other hand, it is a little incomprehensible that the government is dropping the obligation to publish purchases below NOK 500000 and still says that they will come back to raising the tendering limit at EU level later. All purchases over NOK 200000 had a full invitation to tender until September. When the threshold was raised, the obligation to tender was to be replaced by a less bureaucratic obligation to publish, a simplified obligation to publish smaller purchases. The obligation to publish shall ensure the transparency, transparency and competition of large volumes of smaller purchases in the local government sector. This is also a claim from the Society's Main Organization, which wants fair conditions, and it is a claim from the authorities for corruption work, such as Jan Borgen of Transparency International Norway and Erlend Grimstad. The government has taken an unfortunate step towards less transparency around purchases. Erlend Grimstad said to the Evening Post on December 15th this year: «When the authorities remove the rules on call and competition for purchases less than SEK 500000, the road is open to lubrication, bribery and influence trading.» I share this concern. Right-wing believes that transparency is important in relation to public procurement, and we will come back to that matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e562	This is an important debate and it is a constructive debate. No one is too corrupt. We do not want friendship and knowledge to decide on a tender in the municipalities. In the fight against unculture, corruption and economic crime in municipalities, political Norway is essentially united, and that is very good. The Council of State has repeatedly clarified the importance of competence in these matters. I agree. I am somewhat surprised that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre chose to vote against the proposal of the Right, which was up to voting in the context of the 2006 Justice Budget, ‘to develop a national strategy for increasing the competence of the municipal sector to combat corruption and economic crime’. After the debate today, I have expectations that the Council of State and the Government will look at this again. I also expect the Council of State to follow up, as she has said today, so that there will be ethical guidelines in the municipalities – in all the municipalities, because everyone actually needs it. I also expect, as many have been in the debate today, that the tender threshold is estimated to be 500000 kroner, for several reasons. I am pleased that the Council of State will follow up on the use of quarantine for those who leave a position in the municipalities. This is not least important when thinking about the increased use of consultancy services in municipalities. So you can go from a position in the municipality to some consulting position and do the same thing, with great profit. There is a threat to the strength of the municipal sector using its own employees. Furthermore, I think it is right to assess enhanced legal protection for those who warn irregularities, because it helps to promote a good culture, a healthy culture and a clean sector. I agree with what has been said that this debate is also a lot about morality, not just about rules. Now it is impossible for us to know if there is more corruption in small municipalities than in large municipalities. That is not the point of this debate either. However, it is at least more difficult in small municipalities to detect relationships, where the links between employees and local politicians are much closer. What everyone knows, but no one does anything about, is harder to grasp. Therefore, I would like to encourage one too small municipalities where everything seems to work well, to have guidelines as a good tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e577	I would like to thank you for a useful debate. It's not like there was any doubt before we started this debate, that we're all against corruption and camaraderie. But it's very good that we have gone a few rounds, so we can find the right way to meet these challenges. It's a demanding theme we're talking about. Several questions have been asked in the procurement legislation, and what the Government thinks about raising the procurement threshold further. To that, what we've said before is that we're going to evaluate it. Here we need to find the right balance point between bureaucracy on the one hand and ensuring that we have procedures that are good enough to prevent corruption, camaraderie and lubrication on the other. There is one person here who often believes that EU adaptation is not necessarily of the good in all contexts. But we'll come back to this once we've evaluated the system we've now, with a threshold value where the Bondevik government put it. There is no doubt that there are some special challenges to intercommunal companies, and that is one of the issues we are going to address carefully – how we ensure sufficient control, and that the procedures are good enough in relation to who sits there and controls what. I'm taking this issue with me, related to the possibility of organizing away from corporate control. As a municipal minister, I will continue to take the challenges of corruption with the deepest seriousness. It is important from a purely social point of view, not least for a government that is concerned that we should provide the municipalities with space for action. When we want to give the municipalities room for action, we also need to be sure that all relationships are exercised in such a way that people have confidence in the systems. And that's to a large extent what we're talking about here: trust. I will continue to follow up by looking at whether there are changes to be made in relation to laws, regulations and frameworks. We want to continue the dialogue with KS, which, as I said, we've already started. We will review the experience now gained with the seminar round and the schooling process that KS will have. I will then make an assessment of what follow-up is necessary, and we will certainly come back to Stortinget with these questions in an appropriate manner at an appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e590	Then the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e604	It's approaching Christmas, so I'm going to be extremely short, although not the effort in relation to organized crime deserves you to be short. A unanimous committee is of the opinion that it is necessary to make clear clearly that the crime represented by the NOKAS is an example of what priority must be given to combating. It has been and is necessary for society to indicate that there is a limit and that it has been violated in this matter. For this reason, a unanimous committee is in favour of the proposal for additional appropriations made by the proposal, as it stands. It is most likely, perhaps more than very likely, that more will be needed, and therefore the Government Committee is asking the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals to cover the additional costs that are most likely to arise. I therefore refer to the committee's proposal for a decision, and I also refer to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e615	Just cards to the case rapporteur: there are some fights The Storting has to take, and the fight against what happened, and hit us, as far as the NOKAS case in Stavanger is concerned, is one of them. It is that the framework conditions are sometimes discussed economically and methodically, but it is a fact that the criminal environments do not have the limitations of the law - abiding apparatus. That's why we have to stand up when the power we have to fight this type of crime needs it. I just want to join the rapporteur's information. The party of progress – and I am counting on the other parties – is, if further appropriations are needed to complete this case, at least prepared to follow up in any context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e624	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e640	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e649	When the case of the fishing vessel ‘Utvik Senior’ was dealt with in Stortinget on 13 June of this year, the members of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left proposed that ‘a separate compensation scheme should be established for survivors after ‘Utvik Senior’ and that ‘The Government should appoint a separate name to be assigned to determine the amount of compensation and define who is to be covered by the scheme’. Today the Storting follows up the decision, promoted in the previous Stortinget. A separate compensation scheme has been established. In addition, a separate name has set the amount of compensation, and who is covered by the scheme, as the Storting has ordered the Government. The cancellation follows today up the decision by the Ministry of Justice that the survivors will be compensated. Four of the survivors shall receive an additional compensation of DK 150000 and one of the survivors shall receive an additional compensation of DK 200000. The amount of compensation for the 43 survivors totals 5,2 million. kr. It can be considered that the amounts are too low in relation to the injury suffered by the survivors after the loss of the ‘Evelopment Senior’. However, it is outside the scope of the Stortingen’s competence to enter into such a compensation scheme on a case-by-case basis and to fix compensation amounts in excess of what is in the department’s position. It is also the case that compensation, similar to that which is outside the Grand Duchy's cheap substitute scheme, is intended to be an economic handshake and an expression of society's regret to the individual. The majority of the Committee goes unusually far with regard to the possibility for the survivors to recover their relevant costs. The majority assume that an application for free legal aid to cover the relevant costs of the case will be treated positively. Through the examination of this case, it is established once again that the cause of the ‘Evelopment Senior’ was not due to misnavigation. For the majority of the Committee, it is again important to stress that this implies a complete clean-up of the crew, which has been an important focus for a long time for the survivors and the coastal population. It is also very important that the survivors get back the fish concession the boat had before it was lost. The ‘Development Senior’ incident hit a small coastal community on Senja hard, and affected all of us living along the coast. I personally think this is a very difficult matter. Through the treatment today, we give up for some of the wrongs that have been committed, although there are some who will claim that the amount is too low. But the most important thing for me is that the Storting today expresses society's regret at the injustice that has been committed and that has affected a small coastal community.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e664	This is an important matter, as the case-rapporteur pointed out, which is at the same time intended to demonstrate the ability of the Stortinge to take responsibility for this matter, among other things. because the country has previously concluded that there is a completely different reason for the crash from what has been concluded today. It has been tempting to sum up the majority’s position in the following three words: petty, disappointing and shameful. It is therefore a fact that what you do here to repair a damage, in my opinion, is banal – with all possible respect. I think I'm going to be so bold that I take those present back to the 13th of June when we discussed the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee. Then the representative Berit Brørby from the Workers' Party said, among other things. the following: ‘In addition, the working party considers that the relatives will be best served by the establishment of a separate compensation scheme.’ If $50,000 is what you're best served with, you could have used the cheap substitute scheme, because it goes up to 1.2 million. kr. Lena Jensen from SV, who is now known to have been with and removed the pornsladden, said among other things. the following in the debate: ‘I would like to stress that it is necessary to be generous in the award of claims to the survivors’.» It is possible that NOK 50000 is shy in SV, but some of us do think that it is relatively petty. The current State Council, Enoksen, then the Depositary Representative, Enoksen, said: ‘It is therefore not a handshake, but a reasonable replacement which should become a part of them.’ Reasonable for who? Reasonable for the state? It is well that the survivors do not feel particularly cared for by the compensation proposed today. And if you look at the statements that came into the debate in June, they don't harmonize with what the majority today is doing. Because even if this is a handshake, maybe there should be some kind of interaction between the wrong you feel you've been exposed to, and what you get back. But at least I don't feel that the survivors are getting today. So at the time we asked for our own replacement name to look at this, because you did not want to use the cheap substitute concept, which goes up to 1.2 million. kr. When the basic compensation today is NOK 50000, you are well within it. And if that's what you wanted to do, you wouldn't have to create your own replacement. So there's a lot to go up to 1.2 million. kr. I think if we look at the story, cf. The June debate was about the role of the State in this. I would argue that the survivors have not felt the state as a co-player. That is also why the majority, the Labour Party, SV and the Advance Party took this responsibility in June and continued the case. The previous government did not take sole responsibility, and although some at the time were very proud of the previous Minister of Justice, there is no doubt that he was obliged to return to Stortinget with this scheme because the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party demanded it. If not, this case had already been closed. But you took a responsibility that time. And when the survivors have led the fight they have done, among other things. to the state, there is great respect for it. You have to give credit to them because they themselves have taken the responsibility they have done to combat this. But I think, as I said, that they don't feel today that justice is going to be something special, because you're as extremely petty as you're actually here. I would have accepted that if you had gone beyond what is within the scope of the cheap substitute class, you wouldn't have done that. Then I think this is something that is not related at all. Then the committee's chairman and the case-rapporteur show that a handshake is being made in relation to free legal aid. That is possible, but I believe that the rapporteur is aware that the law on free legal aid has clear limitations. I do not see anyone here asking the Storting to deviate from the rules of that law. In other words, it is a requirement for income, and it is also a requirement for a discretionary assessment by the county in this way. And if it was the case that the majority were concerned about this, why could they not simply say that you should cover the incurred legal expenses that are relevant to the matter, if that is what you meant. But here the majority goes through the Great Government, to the Government, and to the State that will then assess this. If you mean this, why don't you say it outright, and do something about it? For me, this is about political bulwarks, it's not about reality. I think this is a betrayal of those left behind again, which you avoid by saying that you have done the best you can, and that is good enough. With all sorts of respect, it's not. And for the survivors, this will not be a joyous day, but on the contrary a confirmation of the bad treatment they have been subjected to. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e697	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e700	In June this year’s debate on ‘Development Seniors’, there were different views and assessments of the appropriateness of setting up a specific name and compensation scheme, or so-called separate compensation scheme, for what is being provided here is actually an appropriate version of the cheap substitute, which was the topic of discussion at the time. However, the right-wing party chose to support such a scheme subsidiaryly, but I could imagine asking the case rapporteur the following questions: Is the Workers' Party surprised by the results of the denominator's work, the legislation that was designed and replaced, in the light of the debate we had in June? I must otherwise say that there is a tendency towards a development in which someone uses strong words. I actually think, in such a case, that the use of words is close to being tasteless. It is not necessarily respectful, for example. in relation to other congested groups, to make use of these types of characteristics of other lots in this Chamber and of previous governments which have dealt with this matter in a dignified manner. I even met the survivors in connection with the ‘Development Senior’ several times, and it made a strong impression. It did on everyone. But I don't think it's tasteless to put prizes here in this hall on this kind of thing, when you also look at other groups in relation to what they've got. This kind of thing is very bad in this room, to sit and make price tags because you want to get some extra pickers. I understand very well that many survivors feel it very strongly. So did I. I know everyone in this room did. But I think we can hold ourselves too good to have this kind of debate in this room. Otherwise there's another question that we also had up at the time, in June, and that was the question of quota allocation. It was also a very important piece of the total picture in relation to some of the survivors. Very familiar it was solved in a relatively good way. I think it is important to include it in this debate as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e709	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e712	Today, we are dealing with a major issue for the coast in general and for the fishing communities in the Outer Senja in particular. In 1978, the licence to the ‘Development Senior’ not only created grief and rest for the survivors, it created a trauma for the fishing communities involved that have been in existence for several years. When the first commission of inquiry issued its report in January 1979, the main conclusion was that misnavigation and grounding were probably the cause of the ‘Evelopment Senior’’s loss, despite the fact that no physical signs of such an event were found. People on the outside of Senja immediately realized that something violent had happened. The boat had simply disappeared on the open sea. The certainty that the truth had not come for a day, while the Commission pointed to poor seafaring as a cause of the loss, became a heavy burden to bear for the survivors. Despite the fact that parts of the boat were located at a depth of 30 meters already in 1979, with the subsequent request for a resumption of the case, this was not done until the boat's main engine was found in 2002. Then they had left behind and their helpers for several years worked on the matter and took a great deal of money to locate the place of death. The second Commission, appointed in May 2002, concluded in its report that the collision was the most likely cause of the loss. The main conclusion of the Bondevik government in St.meld. No 33 for 2004–2005 was that it is not apparent that serious errors have been made in the ‘Utvik Senior’ case, and that therefore the State cannot be responsible for the loss of the survivors under normal compensation rules. It was concluded that the survivors were able to seek cheap compensation. However, the size was of a different opinion, and asked the government to put down a specific name, with a mandate to fix the amount of compensation for the survivors and at the same time define who was to be covered by the scheme. When the denominator’s position on the department was presented in the autumn, the amount of compensation was set at 5.2 million. kr, which is the amount on which the majority position is based today, an amount that many may think is too low. The ‘Development Senior’ case is a complex and complex case, and it is important that it is now, after almost 30 years, clarified. The long way that the survivors have had to go in order to be heard and, in order to have the matter properly clarified, should also lead to the Ministry of Justice gathering the experience that has been gained for a review of the Commission's system, taking into account both its composition and its method of operation. We're going to have increased traffic in the North in the years that are coming. It is then important to have good enough tools to clarify the causes of accidents of this nature. We also need to be open to look at the circumstances surrounding the ‘Evelopment Senior’ loss if new and important elements are to ensure that this happens. The ‘Development Senior’ incident occurred right outside the living room door of my childhood home. It was my father's professional brothers who were on board when "Utvik Senior" went down one winter night in 1978. I knew several of those who were on the boat, and I know several of those who have lived with sleep after their many years. We are today to grant compensation to the survivors. I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee, in its comment, gives clear political guidance for the positive examination of an application by the survivors to cover the costs of the case, a matter which was otherwise not dealt with in the reduced name but which represents a significant amount. It is also positive that the survivors now get back the fish concessions the boat had. The ‘Development Senior’ case has provided us with animal-purchased learning. We must know to manage this for the best of the people who live by the sea, in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e727	I got a question from the representative Dahl that I will try to answer. I understand that there is a different view of the amount of the compensation. As more representatives before me and also I was in, this has been a very difficult matter, and is a very difficult matter for the population along the coast, especially naturally the survivors who were hit so hard. But at the same time, it is important for me to stress that in June this year the majority of the Storting decided to put down a separate name that would go through the case, and that would determine the compensation for the survivors. This is done. The department has examined the matter and submitted a proposal to the department, which the department has sent to us. Then it is important that we follow that proposal. I don't see it as natural that the Storting should go into the details in relation to what the denominator has done, and review the denominator. It is outside the scope of the Storting, and it is therefore difficult. But I understand that there is also disappointment among some because this is such a difficult matter. I would also like to warn against some of the statements made in this debate. I believe that as politicians, we have a responsibility to try to help some wounds get healed. Unfortunately, I believe that some of the statements made in this debate do not contribute to reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e738	The reason why I take the floor in this debate is that I was quite surprised when I read the position, having followed what has been said about ‘Develop seniors’ from what is now the government parties, when they were in opposition. It is clear that there has been a political shift from what was said in the election campaign to the conclusion that has now been reached. André Oktay Dahl insisted that this was inconvenient, and that there was more to get extra choice. I thought that was the way it was in the election campaign you worked to get extra voters. What government parties have now come here on Stortinget, is not related to what was prejudiced in the election campaign, because then there was no way to go to provide compensation that was fair to the survivors in the Utvik Senior case. You can never replace the loss that the survivors have suffered in the Development Senior case, but at least what we can do from the Stortinges side is to make sure that they get compensation that is reasonable in relation to the losses they have suffered. We're actually here in this room to take responsibility. In any case, I have been elected to this room to take responsibility. But I record that there are others who do not want to take this responsibility in this case. That responsibility is denied. I don't know if it's allowed to use the word 'fight' – that's at least the word I'm thinking about. But I'm not going to use it, to avoid using a non-parliamentary expression. But in this case and in similar matters in the future, the Progress Party will take responsibility. We are going to come forward with the proposals that we think are necessary. We're going to promote the suggestions we've made all the way in this case, and run that line. We're going to do that in this case, and we're going to do that in other cases. But I regret to record that the current government parties have run from their responsibility in relation to what they said in the election campaign. I think that's regrettable, and it's just a matter of increasing the political bias.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e751	The President will point out that we have many different opinions in this Chamber – that is the way we present them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e755	Yeah, and here comes another one. When I heard the rapporteur's presentation of this matter and the presentation of it, it struck me that here was a case rapporteur who made suggestions and opinions that she seemed very little comfortable with herself. And I understand that very well. I'll choose to say that I'm kind of ashamed of what the majority of the Biggest is now doing. I actually see it as petty things. I heard the representative Dahl say that it was inconvenient and populistic that a party promote an alternative proposal for solutions in the matter. I'm not going to go into that, but I just want to say that there might be others outside this room who will perceive the views of the representative Dahl as uncomfortable – perhaps the proposals in particular. It has been so for more than ten years that the survivors have been led behind the light. They've been fighting a rich and almost all-powerful state, where they've suffered for almost 30 years. As I said, they have opposed the pressure from this state and have not given in. It's something that stands for respect. So it turned out after this time that they were right. Then we'll get to the replacement. I would think that there are many of those who are today to receive this compensation and the upliftment from the state, who see this as a day of joy, as almost the opposite – as being a disappointment. Not enough of the amounts that are being talked about are very low, but so the survivors have to apply for free legal aid. Here it is that, as far as I know, free legal aid goes at a limit on the income of approx. NOK 250000. That means that those who get $50,000 in compensation and earn over this, may have to spend their money to pay a lawyer's fee. Otherwise in legal proceedings where the counterparty is found innocent, it is such that all the costs are borne by the counterparty, and in this case it is the State. I think the state has turned out to be very little shy against a group that has fought for almost 30 years to achieve justice. It has, in my view, been far from responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e770	A lot of words have already been used in the debate here. It bears witness to an engagement, and I think the matter has deserved it. If we only had the case rapporteur comment briefly on the setting, we would have done an injustice to the survivors. I think this matter is so important that it deserves the debate that Stortinget is now taking. Something else I think would have been disrespectful. It is tempting to comment on some of the statements that have come to pass. I noticed that the representative Dahl thought my first post was tasteless. Yeah, that's possible. I also register that the representative Dahl believes this is a way of getting new voters. If the representative Dahl means the survivors or relatives of the ‘Evelopment Senior’ loss, it is at least very limited. I think that the target group is going to use different methods of trying to get more people to choose from than using this case. It would be too stupid. I will leave it lying down and do not go any further into it as the representative Dahl suggested in his post. The representative Knutsen talked that this is a trauma. Yes, I believe that many of the survivors will feel the handshake of the Workers' Party in this matter as a trauma. I think'mild' is a mild expression here. The representative Knutsen also stated that many would think that this amount is too low. Yeah, but not the Working Party. The working party thinks it's quite in place, it's quite correct, and it's just enough for the state to have dealt properly and well with those who since the accident happened in 1978, have fought against the state as an opponent and have not had it as a co-player. It is possible that it is good enough for the Workers' Party. That's not good enough for the Progress Party. The representative Knutsen was also interested in it with opportunities, and that there were strong leads for free legal assistance. But like others before me, it's a law that's grounded there. I have not perceived that the majority has said anything about it being dispensed or in any way changed. That means that the county that granted it has to deal with the law in force, regardless of what the Storting has said, because I have not realized that there is a dispensation here. The representative Bjørnflaten said this was a difficult matter. Yes, it is possible that it is, it is possible that it is. The representative was also concerned that this was a matter of his own. Yes, it was made unanimous in ours. And the representative says not to overdo it. But I thought it was such that the Storting can largely do what the Storting will. So it's a recommendation from a denominator to the department, and the department comes here with it. But I'm recording that the Stortinget, as it is, is changing what comes from the department. Or is it that it is the ministry's view that is to be the blessing? Does the representative, Mr Bjørnflaten, think that the Stortinget will now appear politically castrated? Is it the purpose of this that the Storting should no longer have its own opinions? At least I hope that is not the intention of the representative of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e785	We see from time to time that there are things that you don't easily get done with, and that it can take years to process. The Mehamn accident, where an on-shore plane crashed in Finnmark, was such a case. The North Sea divers and the damage they have suffered from working in the North Sea may be another such matter. And we'll see it again here, the case of "Development Senior" on February 17, 1978, is a similar case. What often characterizes these kinds of things is that whatever decision is made, it is difficult to compensate for the suffering that many have suffered, and perhaps also for the injustice that has been committed. But there is also a type of matter that requires some caution in the use of words. I'm going to think that many are left with despair, with sorrow, and with rest from what happened, and I think that both the majority and the minority here are concerned about taking seriously those frustrations and that despair. Then what you get might be what you get, because someone doesn't feel like the compensation they should have had. This might have been the case even if you had allowed the case to have a new round, and that the amounts of compensation had been adjusted. I think that the most important thing to do is to show respect for the fact that what has happened has caused a lot of pain and suffering, and respect that regardless of what kind of decision you come up with here, and that a minority can have a different view, everyone has a respect for the seriousness that lies behind it, and that we choose to use words that are consistent with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e800	I'll be brief. But it's not going to happen that I think the debate is haunting, when you relate to compensation, compensation and compensation. I actually thought what we were looking for was to give these things here, a maximum of fair treatment. Then there's no doubt in my mind that when we measure all the other things in society up against crowns, 25 years of battle should, and above that, end up with a completely different sum than what is proposed in this room today. I think our most important task should be to give these people justice, and I don't feel that we are doing that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e809	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e829	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e845	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e861	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1027]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e877	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1028]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e893	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1028]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e909	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1030]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e926	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1030]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e942	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies following the statements of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e951	I'm not going to spend a long time on this matter, but just focus on what there's been a little different views in the committee. I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party, together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and give a brief explanation for that. Our starting point is that we believe that in Tromsø you should get a seed scheme equal to the four other university cities. I see you haven't got that. A system of its own has been established which has a better framework, but has been set up to guide the regional policy of this fund. We find it unfortunate that Tromsø is not allowed to compete in the same way as the other university cities. I'm recording that you don't get it. But I just want to say that I'm satisfied that Tromsø is going to put in place a system later on. It is not the best scheme that has been proposed, but it is better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e962	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e965	The majority of the Economic and Social Committee, in its opinion, endorses the Government's proposal for a new regional distribution of the regional rights of seed funds. The aim of the seed scheme is to increase the availability of equity for start-ups and growth enterprises in a capital intensive phase. An evaluation carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in the autumn of 2003 showed that each government loan has triggered DKK4.80 in private capital. The conclusion of the evaluation was that through the incentive provided by the seed scheme, the State has introduced private capital to the market and contributed to the company’s acquiring good competence. The Seed Fund represents investment capital which is requested by small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the country. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that the Government is now proposing that two of the district funds be added to Northern Norway. The fact that one of these funds is to be located in Tromsø means that Tromsø is treated in the same way as the universities in South Norway, so that projects from universities have proximity to the seed funds. As a district fund, investment outside the district policy area cannot be used, but, in return, the fund will have more favourable framework conditions than the nation-wide funds. As you know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is in dialogue with the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, on the conditions for all seed funds, and I believe and hope that the outcome of this dialogue will be that we can offer favourable seed schemes for the widest possible range of projects in municipalities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e972	The background for having a debate on this matter is the slightly special twist that the new government has made when it comes to the placement of those district rights seed funds. Initially, it was thought that a majority of these would be located in South Norway. Now we get the situation after what has been suggested, which seems to be getting more today, that the one thing that one has previously decided is going to be in Namsos. Innovation Norway itself has decided that the other will be in Bodø. Then, after a political assessment, it is now decided that the third should lie in Tromsø. One of the questions this travels, and I hope the Council of State will come up with a little bit in its article: what about the rest of the districts of South Norway? How can a clear person, when only one fund is left – or even more – to cover the whole of South Norway with one fund, as well as what is now in North-Tronde Team? It is also a little unreal that Tromsø should not have a fully-fledged fund that can be used nationwide. It has previously been suggested by several that this should happen, and the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left suggest in today's setting up such a fund. Then it will also be possible to have two more, which can be placed in South Norway and thus provide better coverage. Now, of course, the Council of State says that the district funds should not cover only the district around where the funds themselves are administered. That's formally correct. However, all experience in this country with similar funds in the past and abroad shows that a large part of the investment from these funds is fairly close to the area from which the funds are administered. If it is such that there should now be only one fund south of the Nord-Trøndelag, I would like to ask the Council of State if it will initiate special measures to clarify how to get this fund to become a fund further south, to be in practice a fund for other district municipalities in South Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e985	There have been great expectations of these district funds throughout the country. We see that this is an activity and a hope that this will contribute to business development across the country. The insecurity attached to ESA's treatment has not been good for business, and it has not been good for those who try to stack these funds on their legs. The signal that now comes from the government and from the majority of the population, that one wants to relocate an additional fund to North Norway, gives a very bad signal effect, not to North Norway, of course, because they're positive, but there's a negative side here, and for the rest of the country it's very bad. There is a signal we don't want to give. It is easy that all the experience shows that the fund – and then I don't talk about Sørfonn! – is most effective in a small radius, depending on where the funds are located administratively. So based on this, the Christian People's Party is also behind both the remark and the suggestion. The note states that one needs to look at the tools and clarify this with ESA, so that one can get the district funds to work better in as many municipalities as possible. In addition, we would like a nationwide fund linking them to the University of Tromsø, on the same line as they have in the other university cities. In our opinion, this will give a much better solution and a much better signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e994	Most of the proposals made by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on changes in the 2005 budget are of a technical nature. I would therefore like to comment in the following three matters that are a little more substantive. On July 30th this year, a fire broke out in the Svea North Mine on Svalbard. This led to destruction and disruption of operations. The economic losses of the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani A/S can be significant. The liquidity situation will be strenuous well into 2006, even after the insurance coverage. However, the fire appears to have affected coal reserves to a small extent. The board considers that there are good opportunities for further profitable operations. The State budget for 2005 initially provided for a dividend of 107 million from Great Norwegian. kr. On the basis of the fire, the government has proposed to adjust the dividend down to 7 million. kr. It will help to strengthen the company's equity and liquidity. By doing so, we want to improve the company's financial situation and secure the basis for further operations in Svea. The conditions remain such that only smokers have access to large parts of the mine, but the company has started a process of gradual opening. It is not appropriate to replace damaged equipment or start new operations in mines until safety has been ensured and all necessary permits are available. Nammo AS is engaged in the production of ammunition and has its head office at Raufoss. The State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade owns 45 pst. of the shares, while Swedish Saab AB and Finnish Patria Oy own 27.5 pst. Each. The company has had good results in recent years. The Government has proposed to increase its ownership interest in Nammo AS from 45 p.m. to 50 pst. The background is that there is an agreement between the other two owners that Patria buys Saab's ownership. The current shareholder agreement gives the State the right to secure 50 pst. ownership and become the equivalent owner of Patria. It is important to have strong and active state ownership that can help maintain the Norwegian anchoring with headquarters and central business at Raufoss. Through a 50/50 pst. ownership of the Norwegian State and Patria are Nammo secured owners who are solid and have a long-term perspective on the further development of the company. It is the intention of the parties to carry out the transaction at the end of 2005. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade must notify its claim to purchase the shares in Nammo from Saab after the decision of the Stortinget has been taken in the case and no later than 31 December of this year. However, some conditions must be fulfilled before the share purchase can be completed. It may take some time for a final agreement to be concluded and payment for the shares to take place. It is therefore possible that the payment for the shares from Saab AB will not be made until 2006. Then to seed fund. As most people are aware, there is a dialogue between Norway and ESA on when and how to operationalise these seed funds. That dialogue is very good, and we aim to have these conversations concluded early in the New Year. I would also like to say that the previous government has done a good job in the dialogues that have been conducted in the past. It is clear from the Soria Moria Declaration that the Government will establish a Seed Fund in Tromsø. In addition, there is a well-qualified management environment in Bodø, with access to private capital. The last grouping has been designated by Innovation Norway, which is also mentioned, to manage a single fund. Two funds in North Norway will be the fastest way to provide capital to the market from the district-oriented seed scheme. This will provide a total of two new district funds and four nationwide seed funds in South Norway and two district funds in North Norway. With six funds in the south and two in the north, there will be a better balance between the north and the south. This solution will be the best for Tromsø. In the district-oriented scheme, the financial conditions are more favourable than for national funds. The interest rate is lower, the State share is higher and administrative support is provided. Seed funds usually invest in physical proximity to the location where the administration is located. The fact that the Tromsø Fund can only invest in the area of regional policy does not mean that there is any real restriction. Finally, I want to clarify the misunderstanding that the nationwide seed funds are university funds. The funds shall be managed professionally, privately owned and invested in innovative projects at an early stage with high growth potential, including projects from universities and higher education institutions. The aim is to maximise the use of state resources and ensure that the best projects are realised. The location of university cities is designed to ensure physical proximity to university projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1022	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1025	The Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘We want the national seed scheme linked to the University of Tromsø to include the University of Tromsø.’ You don't want to do that right now when you present this proposition right over here. I would like to ask you why you don't want to do that, and how many other points in the Soria Moria statement you haven't planned to follow up. Now I know that the council has only one minute to answer the question, and it might be a little short time to explain what you don't intend to do in the Soria Moria statement, but it's possible to ask for more time if you have something more you want to say. I really lacked a good reason why this scheme cannot invest outside district policy areas. So if the state council doesn't get enough time, I'm asking him to redraw.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1038	On the question of the Soria Moria declaration: it has never been the intention of this government that the Soria Moria declaration be implemented in the first budgetary procedure in the Stortinget. The government has as its project that during the period we will carry out the ambitions set out in the Soria Moria Declaration, and we are doing well. I am very pleased with the work that has been done so far, and I am even more pleased that we have a political platform in Stortinget that makes it possible to carry out the ambitions we have. Then the seed fund's location to the university city of Tromsø. Our setting up a district-based seed scheme in the university city of Tromsø instead of a so - called nationwide seed fund helps us to get a better seed fund scheme located in the university city of Tromsø. The system we are now establishing is better than the nationwide system that we are, as I said, in dialogue with ESA to operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1047	I noticed that the Council of State did not even try to answer the simple question I asked in my article. It is quite correct that the funds that are state-owned in university cities are not university funds, and it is also right that they have a little worse conditions. If three of the district funds that have a little better conditions are located from the north of Trundelag and northwards, there will be only one left to cover all the districts of South Norway that have a very extensive business life. So I want to repeat my question to the Council of State, which I would like to ask nicely for an answer to: What would the Council of State do to ensure that the fund to be placed south of the Northern Tribes, in that way, will benefit all the counties under this fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1056	It is true that the representative Løvik points to the location of the district-oriented seed schemes. We are now having conversations with ESA about whether we can use this type of scheme in different places in the country. The starting point of the previous government, to which this government has been talking, is the so-called D-regions and the municipalities that have joined the district-oriented schemes in South Norway. After the processes that have been carried out, where we now understand the outlines of what kind of arrangement will be accepted, probably the most appropriate organization is the one we propose here, with four nationwide schemes in the south and two district-oriented schemes in the north. But it's quite obvious that I want to follow developments very closely, so that we achieve the purpose of establishing the various fund schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1061	I want to start by following up a little of the last, because in the comments from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it says that a ‘only the Government clarify the criteria for the funds towards ESA, so that the scheme can apply to more municipalities than today’. Question no. 1 is: Will the Council of State follow up on the intention in this note that it should apply to several municipalities? So I have another question: does it bother the council that the majority in the setting sends a very bad signal to the business community, or else in Norway? The last question is, can the Council of State confirm that his opinion is also that funds are most effective in a short radius from where they are placed administratively?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1072	Let me first say that I am particularly pleased with both the committee's consideration and the committee's position as such. As to whether to work for more municipalities to be covered by district-oriented seed schemes, I confirm that. Both the previous and this government have had good dialogues with ESA about this in order to achieve the best possible arrangements for business throughout the country. I have a positive belief that we are going to come to a system that takes care of those interests to the greatest extent possible. At least I notice that it is working, and that it has been working well and thoroughly over a long time to get this in place. Then it's probably a fact that closeness to decisions is often an advantage over potential investments. It applies in this area as in many other areas. Therefore, it is also important in the wider strategy thinking of business and public ownership that we have focused on the head office function of the location, precisely in view of the fact that it will serve Norwegian business in a slightly wider perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1081	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1086	As for the answer that the Council of State gave to my reply, I just need a little clarification. The council said you couldn't fulfill everything that's in the Soria Moria statement right away. I get that, and I'm kind of happy about that. If you're going to follow up what's in the Soria Moria statement about seed funds and the university town of Tromsø, which is going to have an equal arrangement with the other university cities, does that mean that you're going to come back here with a new scheme, or are you going to change the establishment you're doing now? Here, there's a little bit of confusion about where you're really going, and when you're going to get to the goal of this. Furthermore, the Council of State stated in its statement that there was a dialogue with ESA in relation to the municipalities. Can the Council of States elaborate a little more on what it puts into the concept of dialogue? Is it that you negotiate with ESA, or do you clarify with ESA? Since ESA is a control body, it could be a good idea to get that exact explanation, how the Council of States does this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1093	Right now it is not time to establish a new scheme. As I said in my main post, you locate a district-oriented seed fund in the university city of Tromsø, and that makes Tromsø get a better-conditioned arrangement than those with nationwide funds. It is also the case that the Seed Fund can invest in the whole country, but then under conditions that apply to the rest of the country. The conditions applicable to the district funds cannot be used outside the scope of rural policy, as they have been said. When it comes to clarifying the nature of dialogue and the nature of negotiations, discussions are held to clarify issues raised by the ESA with a view to establishing the best possible arrangements for business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1100	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1031]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1120	Norway, as a nation, faces many major challenges in the years to come. One of the greatest is to ensure sufficient labour for both the private and the public sectors. This will be a crucial prerequisite for the success of continuing growth and progress and for ensuring the basic services of the welfare society in the health and care sector. That is precisely why this policy area should be given particular attention and priority by the Government, the Storting and political parties. That's also the background that I've traveled this interpellation so early in this big time period. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has taken the view that 10,000 more annual works will be created in the care sector until 2009. In other areas of the public sector, too, there will be a significant increase in the number of employees. We know that in many sectors it is already difficult to find skilled labour. The increase in labour demand has so far been covered by reduced sick leave, by the fact that part-time workers work longer than before and through the use of labour from other northern European countries. There is reason to believe that the labour potential of these sources is being exhausted. Estimates show that in 2010, Norway will lack 220 000 people to meet the labour demand. The need in the municipal sector alone will require everyone who is currently in a training course. Although future scenarios are filled with great uncertainty, this is so serious that we have to take it very seriously. At least we can't take the chance that it won't happen. We should therefore assume that in the future competition for available labour will become tougher, a competition in which the public and private sectors will increasingly compete for labour. This is a competition that neither the private nor the public sector can afford to lose. Aeta's latest report on the labour market, which was published just a few days ago, says among other things.Skew: %0.2f%% x %0.2f%%; with Ctrl to lock ratio;; with Ctrl to snap angle; with Ctrl to snap angle; with Ctrl to snap angle; with Ctrl to snap angle; with Ctrl to snap angle; with Ctrl to snap angle; with ‘The labour market is now in marked improvement. Unemployment is declining in most professions and counties, and the decline has increased in recent months. At the same time, there are increasing numbers of jobs to be applied for.» It also says: «At the same time as unemployment decreases, employment will increase significantly. Aetat assumes that employment will increase by 30,000 persons in 2006 and another 20,000 persons in 2007.’» Here, then, we see very clear results after four years of sound economic policy, and we can see that in this area too, the new government is coming to the table. However, the question arises as to whether the Government has any strategy for how to take care of the basis laid down. That's why I in the interpellation ask the question: ‘What is the Government’s strategy for recruiting skilled labour into the new public sector posts?’ Because I really hope that the government actually has a strategy to succeed with this challenge. If not, it must get one as soon as possible – because this is urgent. Let me get a little closer to what the Norwegian labour market poses major challenges in the years to come, with 10,000 new active workers. Occupational participation is already high in Norway. 83 pst. of the population aged 25 to 54 are at work, while 60 are at work. of the population aged 55 to 64 are in work, see OECD Employment Outlook 2005. We cannot expect to solve the labour demand in the care and care sector by increasing professional participation alone. In addition, youth schools are small, while the proportion of older people and pensioners will increase sharply in the coming years. In other words, the proportion of people leaving the labour market is increasing strongly, while access is declining. In addition, among older workers, we experience a non-response before the ordinary retirement age due to early retirement. Many leave the labour market, among others. because of schemes that actively discourage participation in employment and do not make working profitable. I am thinking here of schemes such as a contractual pension and the waiting pay system in the state. For many, continuing to leave work and to retire unemployed for health reasons or because of combinations of age, residence, failing health and lack of competence. In addition, there is an increasing deficit in help nurses in the care and care sector. We have done so since 2000, and there is virtually no unemployment in this profession. We cannot shift labour from industry and competitive industries in the private sector to care and care in the public sector. This will weaken the value creation in Norway, which is the prerequisite for all well-being, not least the provision of public care services. Norway cannot expect permanent access from the EU countries of Eastern Europe to our own labour reserve because: These countries have the same demographic challenges as Norway and will eventually need all their labour reserve even temporary inflows are limited to relatively few sectors, such as construction, hotel and restaurant, besides seasonal agricultural workers, and this does not solve the challenges in the care sector of the economic growth of Eastern Europe is much stronger than the growth of most western EU countries, and the availability of labour in Norway is only temporary. The people currently here are likely to leave Norway to participate in the economic growth and prosperity development of their own country. I welcome the response from the Council of State, but let me already point out some concrete and possible measures that we on the Right believe are necessary. Firstly, the government must seek to slow down the drop-out from work by strengthening the working line. In particular, it is among the oldest age groups that development needs to be reversed. Work must pay off, so that several older people want to work longer, and we reduce the search for early retirement and the transition to a disability pension. If this is to be successful, the schemes that actively contribute to the exclusion of the labour market or appear to be an incentive for long-term beneficiaries before the ordinary retirement age must either be removed or radically changed. Secondly, part-time hours are too large in the care sector. Two thirds of all involuntary part-time work is carried out in the municipal sector. Employers should do something about this and find good solutions. I remind you that the Co-operation Board proposed in its time and was given the right of priority for part-time employees in the publication of a full-time position in the company or enterprise in which they are employed. Thirdly, active integration of immigrants into working and social life. Many of the immigrants are highly skilled, but still have serious problems getting a job. Immigrant employment is an important contribution both to social integration and to meeting labour needs. Fourth, the extent of part-time work is generally too large in the municipal sector. The employer has to solve these challenges. Now it's the oldest active we see disappearing out of work. In 10–15 years, the proportion of pensioners over 80 years of age increases sharply. This will mean a strong increase in the need for care. The shortage of labour combined with several age pensioners and ageing among them requires new ways of working, better ways of exploiting labour resources. Successful migration requires competence to find new solutions, and competence requires a timely presence. Employees themselves must be involved in identifying future services for a growing proportion of the elderly and in need of care. It requires competent employees, who are present and see where the shoe prints. Fifthly, in addition to what we can do in the framework of the labour reserve we have, the Government must take the initiative to investigate various forms of labour immigration. We need to look at the models that other countries with labour immigration traditions have, and find models that can fit Norway. We should not view this as a threat to our working life or to our society. The near future will require the active use of this instrument. I think I'll let it go with this initially, and wait for the answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1192	Let me start by saying that I very much agree with the representative Engeset that this is an important debate. The Norwegian economy is in an upturn. In the coming year, the stronger employment growth and lower unemployment are expected. The government has estimated the growth in employment in 2006 to 22 000 persons compared to 2005. This means a growth of 1 pst. from 2005 to 2006, and 4000 more than Bondevik II. The growth of employment is expected to contribute to a decline in unemployment in the future, from 4.6 pst. by the labour force in 2005 to 4.1 pst. in 2006. Employment growth in 2006 will be in a number of areas, both in the private and public sectors. The government strengthens the municipal economy. Like it comes out in St. Prp. No 1 Appendix No 1, providing a good basis for an increase in employment in municipalities in the growth of the free income of municipalities in 2006. It gives municipalities improved opportunities to meet the demand for care services. The representative is committed to the Government’s strategy to fill the public sector vacancies. I, and many with me, have probably been so concerned about why the economic recovery, which has now lasted over two years, has so far given surprisingly little increase in employment and only a moderate decrease in unemployment. The representative Engeset is further involved in some of the relationships that have been brought forward to explain this. Developments have been so moderate that the government then had to adjust the unemployment rates for the current year when it took over. In the additional proposal, the unemployment estimate was increased by one tenth to 4.6 pst. The number of registered full-time jobseekers has been slightly more positive. But these too are still significantly higher than when the Bondevik II government joined. Trends in the economy have now contributed particularly to growth in the private sector. The figures show that the drop in unemployment has come in particular in occupations related to industry and construction. There are still many unemployed people with experience in public sector professions. Of the 72 300 registered total unemployed at the Aetat in November, 17,300 had a professional background from teaching, health, care or administrative work and humanities, i.e. professions we often find in the public sector. The availability of these groups is still significantly higher than at the beginning of 2003, i.e. at the start of the current economic cycle. In addition, health and social services constitute the largest group of underemployed persons. Of the total 90,000 underemployed, 32,000 are found in health and social services. The concern about the high number of underemployed people led the previous government, like the current one, to change the Working Environment Act. By giving priority to part-time employees for job vacancies before they were posted externally, they could help reduce the size of under-employed persons. However, the prerequisites for reducing this problem are the need for more labour. The government’s budget provides a basis for reducing both the availability and the amount of part-time work for public sector employees. Aetat's assessment is that labour supply per today does not appear to be an obstacle to the expected growth of employment. Aetat expects higher employment growth than government estimates. The representative Engeset is also concerned with the longer-term needs of the healthcare sector. Under the mandate of the Social and Health Directorate, the Central Statistical Agency has estimated the availability of skilled personnel in municipal health and social services until 2009. Estimates by the Central Statistical Office show that there is likely to be a deficit of caregivers and caregivers. At the same time, however, it is assumed that both nurses and caregivers will have ample access until 2009 in relation to the growth of needs. The profits of these groups are clearly greater than the possible shortage of caregivers and caregivers. In this context, the Statistical Centre considers that the objective of increasing staffing in the care sector by 10,000 annual work by trained health professionals up to 2009 should be achieved. The government will base its recruitment plan for health and social workers from the previous government as a tool for achieving the target of 10,000 new annual works in the sector as reported in the Soria Moria Declaration. The government is working on a long-term strategy to increase the level of competence and ensure access of professionals to the municipal care service. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will promote its own survey on how the Government will meet the main challenges of the future in the care field. It will provide the Storting with an opportunity to discuss developments in the health and care sector in detail. Finally, I would like to point out that there is still a lot of available resources on the labour market, especially in relation to public sector professionals. However, there are some emerging bottlenecks in the construction industry, even with significant imports of labour into the sector. The government follows developments in the labour market closely and will come back to the Storting with an up-to-date assessment in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1218	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased that he agrees with parts of my situation description, at least in relation to the current situation. That's where I think we can agree that the challenges are to deal with and live with. What I got, however, was that when I heard the Council's answer, he didn't go all the way in, or he took seriously, the challenges we have in the future. As I said in my post, it's always the case that future scenarios are filled with considerable uncertainty, but I don't think there can be any particular doubt that we are facing significant challenges in terms of resolving labour demand in 5, 10, 15 years. It is a challenge that everyone should take seriously, not least the government that is always in place. Otherwise, I went a little over the Council of State's visit as to why it took such time before unemployment went down. I don't think one should have studied economic history and social economy for a long time, especially before one becomes aware that in a changed policy it takes time to see the effects of what an actual does. I think the sitting government will also experience that. So the effect we see now, with significant growth in both the number of job vacancies and significant decline in unemployment, is obviously linked to the fact that there has been a consistent and sensible policy over four years, which I am absolutely sure the current government will try to take responsibility for. But we have to be quite diligent to point out that this is a result of the cooperation government's policy. After we took over in 2001, we had to live in the same way throughout 2002 that we had to deal with the consequences of previous government policies. That's what it's like -- an evolution doesn't turn around overnight. What I basically missed most in the Council of State's response was his assessments of the need to open up more labour immigration. I got the impression that the Council of State comforted me that these labour challenges could be solved by the fact that those who are unemployed per. today, fills all the need for future labour. It's a pretty naive notion, and I'm worried if the Council of State settles down that that's the situation. Because it's taking too easy on these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1227	I note that the representative, Mr Engeset, believes that there is considerable evidence that two years of strong economic recovery does not lead to a significant decrease in unemployment. I allow myself to say that there is a good deal of evidence that two years of economic recovery is also significantly greater than what we have seen in Norway in the last two years. Then I also need to comment very briefly on the issue of labour immigration. There is the situation that if the policy we are pursuing in that area is naive, it is also a good description of the policy of the previous government, because we are per. Today, the policy of the previous government has continued in relation to labour immigration. Then what we're doing now, naively, must also be a characteristic that affects the previous government. I agree with the representative Engeset that these are important issues, on which we are constantly going to have a strong focus, but the representative Engeset is right that this government, as a result of the cyclical upturn we have now had, and is inside, and which seems to continue – at least for some time to come – will be very concerned that there will be an actual fall in unemployment here in Norway, and that there will be a trend in the expansion of all those who have part-time jobs. That is why we are now combining a cyclical upturn with a further investment in labour market measures, not least to qualify those who are unemployed, so that we do not have a situation where we have a deficit in labour while we have a lot of unemployed people. There are many examples of danger because the unemployed do not have the skills required by the labour market. This is why we will be investing in labour market measures despite the cyclical upturn to ensure that cyclical upturns lead to a decline in unemployment. Then, of course, we need to keep focusing on the labour market and continuously assess the need for labour force immigration, but per year. Today, we make the same political assessment as the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1236	The representative Engeset said in his last post that it would take a long time to see the outcome of the existing policy, and I hope he is right, especially with regard to this government. The questions asked by the inter-pellant are most relevant, especially in the context of the fact that SV is in government, and that we have a small reform-friendly working party. Unemployment in Norway is still high, and for the Progress Party, the aim is to reduce unemployment, among others. providing greater incentives to take paid work by means of tax incentives, for which we had a long way to go in cooperation with the previous government. In addition, the situation needs to be facilitated for those groups that are currently out of work, including those who are currently out of work. disabled persons and beneficiaries of social assistance. The reserve in part-time positions is also important. The party is committed to increasing the workforce through measures that make it more opportune to obtain paid work. Increased efficient use, both professionally and geographically, of the labour available at all times is important to provide the basis for increased growth. In addition, both public bureaucracy and support for unprofitable jobs need to be reduced. Higher growth through increased productivity generally provides the basis for higher wage growth. The progress batch takes a distance from a simplified moder line. It's e.g. no objective to increase hourly wage costs in Norway less than in our trading partners. In principle, comparison of hourly wage costs across national borders is totally wrong. If productivity increases, wages could increase without costs per year. the unit of production in the holding is increasing. For the Progress Party, therefore, it is an objective to increase wages in the same way as it is an objective to increase economic growth and productivity, as we have seen in particular in the United States in the last twenty years, where productivity has released labour to other tasks. This has also occurred to a large extent in Norway, but largely in the private sector. In their contribution, the Council of State concerned that much more money had been allocated to the municipalities, and that this would give more jobs. Now we are beginning to get some results from budgetary procedures in the different local government that show that the money is largely not used for the employment of more care workers and teachers, as promised, and as you get when you increase the free resources. There is a significant potential for efficiency in the public sector. It was detected by the sample run by Victor Norman in the early 1990s. The sample estimated the overall efficiencies potential of approx. 130 million. kr annually in the crown value of the date. And there is particular reason to highlight efficiency in the public sector. This sector has over time experienced a strong expansion in Norway and is appreciating increasingly large parts of Norway’s GDP. This has led to an unacceptable tax burden, while, in many cases, the quality of services produced by the public sector is not good enough. So far, the solution has been to spend more money on the sector rather than look at the organisation and efficiency itself. This has maintained inefficient structures and provided socio-economic sub-optimal solutions. The Progress Party is of the opinion that the authorities have a great responsibility to manage people’s tax money properly. This means that resources must be deployed primarily in the provision of services rather than in the administration and bureaucracy. Unfortunately, progress seems to be going in the opposite direction, and it has intensified after the government change. Efficiency is primarily a question of achieving results, preferably with less resource input. The Progress Party recognises that the public sector is something other than an enterprise in the usual sense, as it is responsible for a number of common assets and income assessments often act as a corrective to the private sector. Nevertheless, there are at least three different possibilities for efficiency in the public sector. Cost-efficiency improvements produce public services cheaper than today, performance efficiency achieves overall policy objectives cheaper by allocating efforts in different areas other than today, and cost-benefit improvements re-prioritise from areas where the last krona effort is low, to areas where extra effort throws off much of it. If private enterprises and public establishments are to compete for a job, this presupposes a level playing field, which is not the case today. There are some aspects that protect the public sector from real competition. The public must get a real pricing of service production — today it is often not. Such a policy will release resources that can be deployed in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1259	It's always a bit tempting after such armory posts from the Progress Party to go into debate with them, but I was going to deal with the interpellant. However, let me say one thing, and that is that it is not that this large-scale competition run that the Progress Party puts up will create somewhat less bureaucracy. The shooter is always targeted at public bureaucracy. However, if there are some studies and evaluations of the large outsourced projects — which have actually taken place — and the conversion to such a type of provider/exploratory organisation shows, it is that more and more of the resources agree to manage the systems that are there, which are predatory but which are not at all released for more productive activity. But let me put that aside. The interpellant takes up a very exciting question here. I will choose to point it out, because I feel that the question has been asked incorrectly. The question should not be: what should we do to recruit people to the new public sector posts? The main challenge is not to recruit enough people for the public sector, but to prevent those who are there from being excluded – to return and possibly dissatisfaction, either in the form of unemployment, or primarily because of fatigue. Under the regime of the previous government, we saw how the tightening up of the economy in the municipalities, for example, coincided with an increase in expropriation for rehabilitation and disability – similar were the figures for some changes in the public sector. I traveled around the country for the last time as a member of the Municipal Committee. There I met advisers and councillors who said: "Now we simply can't afford to run a proper personnel policy." This is going to go down on the stumps gradually, but we have no choice but to pursue a poor staff policy. I hope that the promise that our government has now made in relation to local economy will give advice, local government and county councils around the possibility of pursuing a policy that can take better care of people. But the issue is important. One of our most important answers is to continue the investment in an inclusive working life – not only focusing on sick leave, but also on the other two targets: increasing retirement age, increasing retirement age, preventing exclusion and ensuring the reintegration of people with disabilities. These are two other milestones that are important to us, and which I know the Minister of Labour and Inclusion is taking proper action. So over to what can be done to improve the supply of labour, to make sure that more people offer their labour. One of the most important things to do, and one of the main goals we have, is to make sure that more children have the opportunity to go to kindergarten, and that fewer parents use the cash support. If we get into that situation, there's no doubt that this will lead to more people working and offering their workforce. The second is to reverse the changes to the Working Environment Act, because there is no doubt that the Working Environment Act, as proposed by the previous government, would lead to more exclusion. That's what we're going to get turned around, so we're going to get less outreach due to a poor working environment. But there is no doubt that the work environment law we have today needs to be looked at more in the years to come, because it is the work environment law that we already have, which, together with other things, has led to the high exclusion that lies there from there. So to the last thing I want to mention, we have to make sure to educate enough people. There are enough training places for initial applicants, and there is a strong commitment to lifelong learning. It is uplifting that we now have a knowledge minister who has been burning for this ever since he put his legs in the education committee for the hard days and the job for more education for people – throughout his life. There's a challenge. There is today a right to follow-up training, but there is no ‘staying’ in place in relation to that phase there. We need to find something that is at the intersection of people who are unemployed, people who need training, and the social welfare schemes in the Loan Fund. Here we have a job to do in connection with the NAV reform and what will happen next – and the review of this whole area. There will be an exciting debate on these things in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1278	I thank the interpellant for bringing up an important and not least far-reaching topic. First of all, I note that the government of Stoltenberg in the additional proposition of the state budget for 2006 is adding to the Bondevik Government's recruitment plan as a contribution to increasing staffing in the care sector, in line with their target of 10,000 more annual works until 2009. The strengthening of the municipal sector is also mentioned as a good basis for stepping up annual works. The older part of the population still grows more than the younger part. In addition, the average age of both men and women is increasing, and most experience being nurturing many of their last years. These elderly people have complex and severe disabilities that face major professional and manpower challenges. I have noticed that the Minister of Health and Health said in one of his answers to the Storting that crewing and competence are two sides of the same matter, and must not be set against each other. I would like to stress this in the debate today. It is also worth noting the warning that is called by, among other things. Norwegian Nursing Association to hurry slowly, a warning that crew must not go at the expense of quality. This is an organisation that has usually pointed to the manning situation as the main challenge. I therefore find reason to recall the quality challenges that often follow in the wake of debates on the number of service providers. Even if the average age increases, the retirement age decreases. The Christian People's Party believes it is increasingly necessary to take better care of older people's competences, experience and labour. This is in the interests of both society and the elderly. Attitude-building measures in business are still important to counter negative and false myths about seniors in the workplace. There will be an increasing need to make public and private businesses sufficiently aware that their future success depends on their being able to maintain the skills of senior citizens. Senior policy must be conducted on a daily basis in all enterprises and not be saved for the celebrations. The Christian People's Party believes that the impact of the senior policy measures that have already been implemented needs to be reviewed, and that the Government must make offensive proposals for new measures that can contribute to the goal of an inclusive working life for the seniors so that they do not run out, as the representative Holmås was concerned about. The immigrant group is a group that often has the necessary skills, but has the most difficulty in getting a job. So this group has qualifications that Norway does not use. This resource has not been exhausted in any way today. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal that immigrants be called for an interview. It is negative that someone is not called in for an interview just because they have a ‘foreign’ name. But we are calling for more and more active measures from the state. We have suggested that the IA Agreement should focus in particular on including people with a minority background in working life. I am not sure to what extent the renegotiated IA agreement does this. We have registered that the social partners are invited to cooperate on an action plan for the integration of immigrants. The Christian People's Party is in favour of all measures that can promote the position of the immigrant group in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1295	There are bright prospects in the labour market. It is clearly positive, especially for the 100 000 unemployed. After an election campaign in which we have all agreed on the need to provide better and more valuable care services, more kindergartens and a stronger commitment to school, we are very happy in the Centre Party that we have had an impact on the main instrument: strengthened municipal economy. There will be growth in municipal services next year, and there will be a need for more staff in the care sector, in kindergartens and in schools. The quality of the supply is intimately linked to the labour resource we are able to deploy to solve the problems. But still, the growth in private consumption – even after the new government budget, where we introduced billions into the public sector – will be stronger than in public consumption, even next year. It will therefore be a major challenge for both government and local authorities to ensure access to labour without simultaneously experiencing that competition for labour provides a spiral of wages that neither society nor workers have earned. We have experience in how price development and interest rate development have ate up the effect of good and strange pay settlements. We have 100,000 unemployed. Our biggest challenge will be to help them get back to work – it is in the public or private sector. However, I believe that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion will have at least the same challenge in getting back to a more inclusive working life the 100,000 who are on rehabilitation or rehabilitating measures. Also among the 300,000 unemployed, there are many who would have liked them to have been needed in their working life. I hope we focus on how we can help achieve that. The representative Engeset points to the fact that the increase in labour demand has so far been covered by the decline in sick leave. Yes, there has been a positive development, which we must hope to continue through the continuation of the agreement on an inclusive working life. However, as the representative Woie Duesund had in mind, there are two other objectives of the IA Agreement, relating to the situation of the disabled and the seniors. Making sure that more people with disabilities remain in the labour market and that it becomes attractive for more older people to stand in the labour market will be crucial if we succeed in the challenges that the representative Engeset has raised in this interview. I think it is positive – and it needs to be seen as positive for the Minister of Labour and Inclusion in particular – to deal with the work of an agreement on an inclusive working life in a situation where there is a need for labour, and where, perhaps also on the employer's side, more will be involved and help to get more people who fall too easily outside, to work. I think this interpellation has been a good opportunity to highlight that in this society, where there may be a shortage of labour in some sectors, hundreds of thousands of people wanting to enter a more inclusive working life. Then it's important that we now use the opportunity to seize to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1312	I first thank the interpellant for addressing an interesting issue. Since 2001, the left has been working for increased labour migration, simply because future welfare developments depend on our being able to attract – and hold – enough skilled labour. Unfortunately, the left was sadly alone about this in 2001. However, in the Sem Declaration, the matter was raised on the agenda, and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs submitted a case for consultation. Today, we have a job-seeker visa scheme, and the Bondevik II Government carried out a good deal of liberalisation in this area. In the view of the Left, it is obvious that value creation and welfare depend on increased labour migration. We simply do not get enough workers in Norway on our own in the years to come. In the Soria Moria Declaration, there is only one place of labour immigration, under the heading ‘Social dumping’. For the Left, it has been clear for a long time that we are going to get value creation and ensure the future well-being of this country, we will depend on increased labour migration. Demographic conditions and the situation in the Norwegian labour market reflect our need for skilled labour in a number of sectors will have to mean that we need labour immigration in the future. The Labour Party-dominated government opted for 10,000 new sets of hands in the care sector. And there's no doubt that we need more hands in this sector. At the same time, there are many who knock on our door and want to enter this country to do a job, earn money and build a future for themselves and their families. For a left-wing human being, it is a great respect to seek work and thereby to find well-being and security for themselves and their own. One important element of the Left is that labour immigration will extend the freedom of citizens of countries outside the EEA to travel and establish themselves in different countries around the world. It is a fundamental liberal respect for the freedom of individuals. In this context, it is also appropriate to recall that Norway, when we were one of Europe's poorest countries, exported a large proportion of its population to America. This issue is also about the view of our immigrant population. If the only way to get into this country is through the Institute of Asylum and Refugees, we get a type of immigrant population that makes us not necessarily attracted to those who simply come here because they want to create a future for themselves and their families. New hands, including in the care sector, is good, but as important as the quantity is quality. The care sector is already struggling with the recruitment of skilled labour. It is close to asking the Government whether a strategy on how to educate more people in the relevant professions has been put in place in the field of education. Will it, for example? be trained as a number of doctors, so that old-age and nursing homes have adequate access to competent physicians? Will there be several classes in the nursing colleges? How does this relate to the government's policy towards private colleges, which on Thursday's news could lead to, among other things, Lovisenberg diakonale universitet must cut the follow-up training of 500 nurses in the care of the elderly? At the same time, we know that people who are educated abroad have a hard time getting their education approved in Norway. It is a highly relevant question whether the Government is addressing this aspect in ensuring qualitatively good and sufficient labour in the years to come. Things are related, as it is called, and the government's policy of ensuring enough competent personnel must be associated with their education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1331	In an earlier life, especially the first time he was prime minister, our current prime minister stated in a debate that there are untrained nurses coming up from the boreholes in the North Sea. The Prime Minister is quite obviously right about that. What the interpellant has asked is what strategy the Government has for recruiting skilled labour. It is a very timely question, because in precisely the areas where the Government has declared the objective of increasing the number of jobs relatively strongly, we already have a very large element of non-skilled labour. If you look at the health and care sector in Norway compared to our Nordic neighbouring countries, Norway appears to be the country with the largest share of non-skilled labour per year. today. Thus, the objective is not just to get a sufficient number of qualified applicants for new jobs. The objective is also to improve skills quite radically from the current situation. I noticed that the representative Holmås almost across all borders boasted of the unique ability of the new government to solve problems. It is a bit touching that the representative Holmås has adapted to the role that the government's faith defends with such great enthusiasm after such a short time that he lives up to the fairy tale of fat that always does the right thing. But I think that Holmås was driving it well far when, in this context, he praised the Minister of Knowledge for being particularly far ahead. It is true that the Minister of Knowledge before becoming Minister of Knowledge was very concerned with lifelong learning — on paper. But so far, what has happened is directly on a collision course with the Government's goal of providing competent labour in the fields of school, pre-school and nursing. The budgets of key institutions have just been cut to create the skilled labour force that they are looking for, in their eagerness to target all what is called private higher education. Yes, I have registered that even a high level of success has been successful in hitting the only nursing college that NOCUT has approved in terms of quality. It's been premiered by cutting specifically at that particular institution. It's quite well done. My impression is that the strategic problem in this area is to coordinate the activities of the different departments and the policies of the different Councils. It must be correct to note that so far there are no signs of anything similar to coordination between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion. That's a shame, because that's where the shoe prints. There is a lot to talk about the labour reserves that can be mobilised by including people who are not currently in permanent employment, but the major challenges in the future will be to get education policy to intervene with and into the development of the labour market and employment policy. Therefore, my advice to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion will be to make time for a thorough discussion with the Minister of Knowledge, because there is a lot of evidence to suggest that the Ministry of Knowledge has a lot to learn about strategic thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1343	It's not just the air traffic controllers we're missing in Norway. We also lack dentists, we lack doctors, we lack midwives, we lack gynecologists, and not least we need more warm hands in care. It is clear that if the Government does not manage to achieve its objective, this will be a huge political wear and tear. That's one side. The other side is that if you don't reach the goal, it will be a tragedy for those who actually need this care. We have more or less had a continuous political debate from this House for 15 years, which has not yet solved these issues. Some believe that the public does not increase bureaucracy. It was employed in 1984 by more than 400,000 people in the public sector. Today it's probably twice as much. When someone attacks the Progress Party because we want both private and public care, it gets fast so that the debate is about who should perform a service. But for those who are involved, getting the service they are entitled to is much more important than what the name of the back of those who perform the service is actually. In the care sector, we have the skills we want to have to a great extent, but we're too bad to take advantage of it. We have many positions that are fractions, which are half positions, where people want to be in full or in a higher fraction. This costs money, and not as free money for the municipalities, who of course want to spend it on it as there and then had to be the most useful. I fully understand the debate on whether these should be earmarked funds, or whether there should be free resources, and if you are going to reach those who need this care, there is little doubt that you have to go the road to ear-marking, if you want to take them seriously. That is why, in our budget, we have proposed as much funding to the municipalities as the government has done, but we have proposed it as earmarked funds. The only reason for this is that we take them seriously. I think we'll experience a very debate in Norway in the time that's coming, on how we're going to solve this problem. But if we're going to hire more people in Municipality-Norway to take care of those who need help, I don't think we can get away from earmarking these funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1354	First, I would like to thank those who have participated in the debate with great commitment. This is an important topic, and I think it's going to be significantly more important in the years to come. That is why I also think it was important to get a political focus on the matter. First of all, I just want to clarify it as possibly a manifest misunderstanding. When I used the word ‘naive’ in my previous post, it was not a description of the government’s policy in relation to labour immigration. But I certainly believe that in the submissions of the Council of State, I heard that he based on a reality that meant that they were at the moment. are unemployed, can meet any labour needs in the years to come. That's what I expressed in case was a naive performance. It is possible that I perceived the council error, or that I heard errors. In that case, I regret it, but whoever misunderstood who, in the case of the prints of the debate, will show. At least I think the Council of State took the problems too little seriously when it was about the challenges we're facing, not exactly today, but maybe a few years in time. Otherwise, I think the debate has fully demonstrated that this is a complex issue, a complex one, where there is no single phase response, but where state policy, public authorities' policies, must work in an interaction between the public and private sectors, in order to obtain the results we all want. It concerns legislation, but not least the way different systems operate separately and together. The debate on the coming new pension system is an important part of this, a pension system that helps people actually get more involved in work, which they think is attractive, and extends to it. The fact that we have return systems that help people get back to work and not run out is very important, and, as the representative also pointed out, how education policy works to get the right skills for the jobs to be filled with competent labour. All of this is terribly important. But in general, we must not forget that it is essential that we manage to recruit labour from the outside as well. That is why there was an interesting and important case information from the Council of State that the Government is leading and intends to pursue exactly the same policy on labour immigration as the former government. That was new to me. I am pleased that this debate has made it clear that it is the line of the Government. I didn't get that very impression in the election campaign. Then the claim of social dumping was repeated by LO, and it often occurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1363	Yes, we are pursuing the same labour immigration policy as the previous government led. At the same time, in my previous reply, I said that we are constantly – and I think that is in line with what the interpellant itself stresses as important – of course we need to assess that policy and see if there is a need for adjustments. But we have not proposed labour immigration policy in connection with the government change. What is a challenge in terms of labour migration is that we are so far, including the previous government, in the situation that we are e.g. In the context of what's called the specialist quota, that is, the academic quota, there's a much, much larger quota than what we're doing to get covered through immigration. We signal that for that group we want a much larger immigration than we can do. I think we have a common challenge in making us more attractive to that type of immigration. I think it's a very important debate. Such an interpellation debate is going fast – without us being able to go deep enough. But what's obvious is that there's a lot of connection here. There are questions about how to keep working life inclusive, so don't push people out of their working life. It's opening up the world of work, so that people who are outcast are more likely to come in. It is to have perspectives on future working life, so that we can manage to train properly in relation to the challenges we see in the future. It is a question of a future labour immigration policy that is proportionate to our ability to solve the other challenges I have now faced. Just a brief comment to the representative's salary: I must say that after hearing his post, I am a little in doubt if he heard my answer. Looking at the challenges of providing 10,000 new annual jobs in the care of the elderly, care and care sectors, up to 2010, the Statistical Centre's assessment here is that the main challenge is the lack of care providers and care workers, while, according to the Central Bureau, we still have ample access to nurses and caregivers. To the extent that there has been a lack of coordination between departments here, it must be the previous government that has not been able to coordinate the course of education with higher education. It can be difficult to blame for political changes that this minister or other members of today's government are to be responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1376	That is the examination of case No. 13 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1391	No one has asked for the floor. According to the decision in Stortinget earlier today, Stortinget is taking a break. [[Footing, see page 1033]] The meeting will be revisited at 0 p.m. 16 for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1415	There shall be a vote on cases No. 1 to 14 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1435	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e1565	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e2086	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the Depositary Representative Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Right, submitted by the Meeting of the Odelsting on 15 December 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for any extension of the pilot scheme using videoconferencing technology and remote meeting technology by 2007’.» The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e2948	It shall be weighed first above heading 80 under the heading. 315. Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e2963	It is then voted over the remaining chapters and items under I and over II.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e4157	During the debate, Øyvind Korsberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a national seed fund located in Tromsø in accordance with the same criteria as the other national seed funds for 2006 in the context of the Revised Budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e4824	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e4833	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 16 December 2005 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 24):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-19.ana.ud1666e4855	There is no record.
