ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e32	The representatives Jan Petersen and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The President will draw attention to the fact that it may be appropriate to go beyond the scheduled time at noon. 15 today in the case of the Odelsting meeting. It's a matter of Odelstinget, of course, but this is just for information now. The Odelsting's meeting follows after the Storting's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e53	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 85 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e64	First, I would like to draw attention to an error on page 21 and page 22, second column of the setting, where the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have been included in a comment that goes against the Government's proposal to increase the children's supplement in the reinsurance money. Of course we don't. This is the first budget of the Labour and Social Committee, and we see clear signs that we have got a new government with a new political course for more justice and community and less tax havens. There are more at work, there is safer working environment, and there is a doubling of the poverty rate. Total investment is 748,7 million. kr in a better labour market. There are major improvements in the local economy in that budget, there are improvements in employee rights, and there are almost half a billion more to the poorest. It's a choice of values, and it's a start on a new policy where the majority and the government choose work for everyone, community and well-being over new tax reliefs. The greatest ethical, welfare and economic challenges we have in society today are that some are really poor in the world's richest countries, that the labour force is so tough that many are pushed out without the opportunity to get back in, and that fewer things to do are to stand by retirement age. Turning this around requires changes both in the labour market, so that there is less exclusion and less discrimination, and in the instrument to enable people to return to work. This budget has taken important steps in both areas, both in terms of the labour environment law and in terms of strengthening the Aetat. The agreement on inclusive working life is all agreed to be continued and reinforced. A too one-sided focus on sick leave may lead to more exclusion. Therefore, all three intermediate goals, both sick leave, of recruiting back those who are outcast, and the work for more seniors to be able to stand longer in work, must be given more equal weight. It is necessary to set targets and indicators for all intermediate targets, and the State and the public sector must assume greater responsibilities than today in order to follow targets 2 and 3 in their own activities. Unfortunately, the results show that there is a problem in this area. The organisations of disabled people also need to be involved much more closely in that work, because they have a competence that the social partners need to succeed in the work. Unemployment among parts of the immigrant population is also much higher than in the rest of the population. We ask the Government to consider this in relation to the IA agreement. In addition, the majority of the Committee calls for an assessment of the obligation to act under the Discrimination Act – as it is in the Equality Act – which could lead to discrimination in the recruitment procedures of which a sea is not aware. In addition, we would point out that the reintroduction of the integration grant to those who receive residence and family reunification with those who are here, on a humanitarian basis, could make a significant contribution to the success of several of them. The government reverses the impairments of employees' rights that the Right-dominated Bondevik government, with the support of the Advance Party, carried out. We agree that the changes adopted at that time could contribute negatively to inclusive working life, pointing out that the organisations of disabled people have unequivocally rejected this and warned against the changes. It is also important that public sector innovation takes place in a way that does not create exclusion, as it has now done. Pushing more people into social security is not modern or good for the country or the individual. Right-wing ideology from New Public Management doesn't hold, if we want people to work at retirement. Efforts to combat unemployment will be increased by 217 million. DKK for new measures and 20 million. kr to Aetat. There is room for about 2,000 new action sites, and there is a need for them. Unemployment is slowly on the way down, but it is still too high. New labour and welfare management shall be set up to provide an integrated tool to provide assistance to people as needed. Rules, support systems and legislation must be passed through in such a way that this functions in a targeted way. This applies, for example: cost ceilings, duration limits and age limits for re-introduction. It is also important to ensure competence throughout the apparatus. I want to pay particular attention to the skills of different types of learning difficulties, because many of those who have problems in the labour market have learning difficulties, and that might be the bend to get back to work. In addition, there is a need for skills in relation to problems such as violence and abuse. The consequences of such relationships may be great for the individual, but can be overcome if one is met in a way that makes it possible to provide the relationship and with the competence to move forward. Attitudes, crop holdings, education and intra-corporate reintroduction are instruments to be used and all have to be reviewed. In particular, I would like to emphasise that permanent work can be an instrument for more than those who are being offered it today. The government extends the day-to-day period of leave and removes the Bondevik government's cut-off in the pay guarantee scheme, which would have led more people who lose their job in bankruptcy would also have lost part of their salary. There should be no poverty in the richest country in the world. The Government will present a comprehensive policy to eradicate poverty in Norway, as stated in the Government Declaration. For the majority and for SV it is a very important issue of value. The Soria Moria statement says that we need a targeted policy for smaller differences, more in work and better benefits for those who live on such low benefits that it has to be described as poverty. The government proposes – which the majority fully supports – in this budget to strengthen work against poverty in the next period of 500 million. kr. A large part of this is the increase in child supplements, in reintroduction money and in medical rehabilitation. The Government has also continued the proposal of the Bondevik II Government to provide child allowances for the temporary non-entry allowance at the level of permanent unpaid pay. It's very important that we do something for the poorest children's families. The Working Party, SV and the Center Party indicate that 5-10 pst. by poor-advised beneficiaries, this supplement could be mitigated in relation to social assistance. We stress the importance of removing such poverty traps, and that it is addressed in the announced paper on work, well-being and inclusion. In this context, a poverty eradication plan shall also be established. It's very important. It is important that the overall social benefits are kept to a level that enables those actively trying to get back to work to focus on that task. We're looking forward to the review of this. It's important to understand that if you don't have your head over the water financially, it's hard to grasp, see light in the tunnel, and take a long and difficult road to a working life that so far didn't want one. Many may get into work, but it is also a reality that not everyone can succeed. They are not to be punished with a life of eternal poverty. Therefore, the Government of Soria Moria Declaration states that welfare contracts should be developed in such a way that the person entering into a contract with the aim of training, work or treatment provision or the like should have benefits at SIFO rates. They shall have rights and obligations in relation to the needs and opportunities available. Obligation operates on the condition that a person is obliged to, maintains quality objectives and makes sense to a seafarer and others, and that a person is followed up and cannot sail his own sea without being seen and included. The goal is to get more people to work. But this government has also promised to raise those who are never going to be able to point to the state budget and say, "I'm going in plus, bet on me." It's only political ethics, morals and values that can determine whether we can also manage to lift them up with others. Then I would also like to point out that the Soria Moria Declaration states that we should base the principle of social equality and universal design, and that people with disabilities and chronic disease must be guaranteed a quality of life in line with the rest of the population, and that we will implement user participation as a principle. This is important, because there is a lot left before people with disabilities are equal to the rest of us in society. The Committee has made three changes during the examination of the budget. It is a unanimous committee that ensures the magazine Velferd, the trade journal that in 2005 received the prize for the best trade journal. It's a vigil that we need in the area that we're responsible for, and that's going to happen so important things in the future. The Foundation Justice for the Tapers is guaranteed 1 million. kr for the work they have been assigned in connection with the follow-up of 900 persons decided by the Stortinget to provide economical compensation because of what they have experienced in orphanages, in school homes or in foster homes. Finally, the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and SV have ensured a majority in order to reintroduce the system of financing of umbrella organisations for disabled persons, as it was before the conversion adopted in connection with the Innst. S. No 162 for 2003-2004. With this, I would recommend Stortinget to support the majority in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e106	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e109	The government parties in the Labour and Social Committee, in their general remarks, say that they want a general policy change to create less economic differences and improve economic benefits for people living on so low incomes today that it has to be described as poverty. At the same time, the same batches increase the food tax, which gives those who have the least, an increase in expenditure that exceeds the tax rate they are given. The image becomes even more strange when the same government actually gives a tax bill of $20,000 to those who make $1 million. kr per year. Does SV really believe that this is a general policy change that creates less economic differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e116	The tax regime proposed and adopted by this government is a significant improvement in relation to the tax regime proposed by the Government of Bondevik, which had provided significantly larger tax reliefs for persons with high incomes and not least with very high assets. It is a reality. I guess the board of directors' tax arrangements had also made very big differences. So it's true that there's a piece left to make the tax system even fairer than those who have high incomes. The government has said that it will continue to work on, so that that distribution gets better. This government has committed itself to increasing benefits for those who live on very low benefits. In this budget, a first small step has been taken in relation to the child supplements, but the work on this will come when we present the paper on work, welfare and inclusion and the measures that will follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e125	A few weeks ago, State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen had a very interesting and brave play in Today's Business, where he arranged to remove welfare schemes in order to get money to combat poverty and unemployment. To Today's Business November 25th, he said: ‘Wealth regimes may be in decline. We're making the list. I know it's going to be trouble." - And there was trouble. Over a whole page in the World Gang a few days later, Karin Andersen is amazed at Hanssen's play. She denies that she will vote to remove welfare arrangements, and that the Council of State here is working against the Soria Moria Declaration. My question is therefore: is this an example of what form of communication we must expect in the future between the Council of State and the prime representative of his parliamentary basis? And does Karin Andersen think that this is much better than standing in the lawn outside the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e137	The Council of State and I fully agree that the basis for this government is the Soria Moria declaration. We're on it. The Soria Moria Declaration makes it quite clear that the welfare and measures of the most disadvantaged and those without work need to be improved. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we have outlined that, for example, there is a shall develop what is called welfare contracts, which will provide many of those currently living on benefits with an opportunity to get more into activity, possibly work, and get it better than today. In that work, it may be that some of the schemes that exist today are less used, but the only welfare scheme that SV has programmed is that we are willing to remove cash support. As we know, this has not been fully implemented in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e146	In recent times, any newspaper reader has found that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion and the head of the Labour and Social Committee have different definitions of poverty. The committee leader operates with a definition that means that the Government's announced plan for the eradication of poverty will help far more. The representative of Andersen's party is now in government with the Workers' Party, which has the Council of State. Governments have signaled in many ways that to fund the poverty package it must cut. That is why I would like to ask Andersen, the representative: What is the cut in welfare schemes, as the Council of State has now signaled, does Andersen see separately?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e153	In the context of the new growth message on work, well-being and inclusion, we need to address the issue of defining the poverty line. The Soria Moria Declaration does not state what it is now. It is true that when we dealt with the poverty message, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre said that we had to assess the poverty limit on which the Bondevik government based. We can easily see from it that there is a level of income that is, in fact, poverty. A lot of people live at that level, and that leads to social distress and exclusion. We're going to go into this question when we're going to review and make the message, because it's necessary, but maybe not the most important thing. The most important thing for me and for SV is that we get action in place and get the benefits up quickly, so that those who live in social distress and exclusion get better. So to what we're going to do to get these arrangements in place. Of course, it needs to be redistributed in order to achieve it, but not redistributed between the sick, the poor, the disabled and the unemployed, as the Bondevik government stood for. We have to dry to take the redistribution also in relation to those who are rich and have something to distribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e162	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e166	As a new magnification representative, it has been interesting to follow the budget debate of the autumn. The main impression has been a government and a new red-green majority on the offensive, up against a slightly debatable opposition, which has not entirely addressed the transition after the election. It may be understandable since the voters so clearly turned the thumb down for further experimentation with tax havens and privatized welfare, which was the very core of the bourgeois option. What's a little more difficult to understand is that the opposition keeps repeating that they can't get what the new course really is. When today's debate is over and the decisions are taken, I expect that the course has become a little clearer, because today the Stortinget is invited to discuss one of the big budget winners in the new course: the part of the population that depends on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs budget. This is not a random budget win, but it is a quite deliberate force for those groups that are particularly prioritised in the Soria Moria Declaration. Instead of being tax-free, the new majority of three main pillars of labour and social policy – a significantly more ambitious labour market policy, a strong increase in the fight against poverty, with a particular focus on child policy, and a reversal of the previous government's undermining of workers' rights. This is clear value choices from a new majority. This is the new rate, which will be followed up further in future budgets. As early as next year, the Single European Act on employment and well-being will be followed by a separate plan to combat poverty, and most importantly, by the new set of labour and well-being, the main social policy reform will last for a long time – the welfare contract system, where the contracting parties will receive increased benefits while qualifying for the labour market. The new residence for work and welfare, which will become operational from 1 January 2006, aims to increase employment and reduce the number of passive social benefits. The regulatory framework shall be reviewed, simplified and better adapted to the individual’s needs. All stones shall be snuffed in close cooperation with the stakeholder organisations. There will be considerable demands on the staff of the first line service, but at the same time there will be greater freedom to make reasonable decisions locally. Welfare contracts are social investments that will yield good returns, both in terms of quality of life for individual and increased value creation in society as a whole. The welfare contracts are based on the view of the majority of people, each of whom has the right to find its place in society by contributing to the community with what you can. All people need to experience that society needs them. Today we have too much attention focused on what is the individual’s problem. That's what we want to turn around, so instead we ask what people can do and how the ability to create value that everyone has can be strengthened, so that more people get into work. The majority will pay particular attention to young people,immigrants and people in need ofreduction and organised jobs. The starting point is that humans are the most important resource in society, and that they live resources in all people. More than DKK 1.2 billion has been proposed and will be adopted in addition to the Bondevik II Government's proposals in this department's budget as early as next year. As a red-green thread through the draft budget, we find the concrete measures: where Bondevik kutter, we add 217 million. SEK to 2000 new action places. We are increasing the poverty package by nearly DKK 0.5 billion, and of that again almost half is increasing the child supplements for those who are on vocational rehabilitation or undergoing medical rehabilitation. We reintroduce the holiday money to the unemployed – a cut that was completely incomprehensible to us – we reverse the tightening of the pay guarantee scheme and maintain the waiting pay system, to mention something. We don't see the point of taking away those who don't have much to finance tax breaks at the other end. Actually, on another committee's budget, but in the same spirit, there's also another 100 million coming. kr to integrate more into the integration grant scheme for immigrants. That this change in course can be described as unclear by the opposition is incomprehensible, but it probably has to be written in the political rhetoric account, hoping to conceal what appears to most others as real political differences. I look forward to a debate in which these differences are evident, in confidence that the best proposals will be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e189	The speaker was in for rhetoric. I get to say that the population made a choice, and we have a clear majority of the red-green. But it's worth noting that the other parts of this room have over 25 000 votes more than the red-green option – just so it's said. The Progress Party proposes an increase in the minimum pension for the individual of NOK 5000. We are now told that more and more minimum pensioners are dependent on going to the social office — a development that we think is very poor. The working party is, as you know, going against the increase in the minimum pensioners, and then my question is, is it because they think that the minimum pensioners get enough money in retirement? Or is it because they don't have money to give to the minimum pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e198	I register on the basis of what Mr. Kenneth Svendsen says about the number of votes, that those who passed the new electoral law were farsighted people on behalf of the poor who made sure that there was a red-green majority in the Chamber. As regards the increase in minimum pensions, we have chosen not to take a decision on this in the budget this year. The spring comes to the matter of pension reform. The level of minimum pensions is, of course, a theme in this regard, but it is a fact that there are quite large differences within the group called minimum pensioners. A minimum pensioner is not necessarily a minimum pensioner. Well over half of them have wealth, money in the bank – others have a very difficult life situation. So I think we need to go into the composition of the recipients of social benefits in more detail. We have notified this to the extent that we must. All types of social welfare recipients must be reviewed, including those mentioned here by the representative Kenneth Svendsen, who may need to supplement social security with social assistance. So it's a group that we're going to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e205	Policies are priorities. In the previous ageing period, the Bondevik II government provided for the removal of the general burial aid and its replacement with a more targeted and needs-tested scheme, which benefits those who need it the most. In addition, this freed up funds for the fight against poverty. This change occurred to major protests from the Workers' Party and SV. There were no limits to how unsocial this was. In the election campaign, the decision on a change in the gravitational assistance was used party politics by the Workers' Party as an example of things that went in the wrong direction during the previous government. On the other hand, in the budgetary position we are discussing here today, the same parties are now saying that they support the continuation of tested gravitational aid, as proposed by the Bondevik Government. This is shown in the setting, page 38. In a short time, therefore, the Workers' Party has clearly established the piece of art to be both for and against tested gravitational support. Could the representative Lise Christoffersen be so kind as to explain to me what she and the Labour Party really think about this right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e218	Right now we believe that the representative Martin Engeset correctly referred from the setting. We're not going to try to hide any of the positions that we flagged earlier. In the situation that is now, on the basis of the Bondevik II budget that was presented and the 24 days that you had to move on money – and I will commend the Government for having actually managed to move as much as 8.1 billion kroner – was not the question of burial aid that we chose to prioritise. We chose to give priority to the measures that I referred to in my first post.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e223	One of the arguments put forward by the Labour Party for having more labour market measures is that unemployment among immigrants from non-Western countries is so high. At the same time, unfortunately, there is reason to believe that, in many cases, attitudes in the workplace prevent inclusion. Persons with a very high level of education and competence are not called up for interview when the relevant posts are published because they have a foreign name. The Christian People's Party supports these being recruited to the public sector. But we had expected support for immigrants becoming an obligating part of the IA agreement when it is due to be revised. Does the Labour Party believe that there is a sufficient focus on this in the labour market? Wouldn't it have been natural to bring it into more committed cooperation, as the IA agreement works?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e228	I share the concern of Mr. Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund regarding the integration of immigrants into the labour market. I have a past as rapporteur in the municipality of Drammen, which is an immigrant town no. 2 in Norway, the second after Oslo, with a very high proportion of immigrants who came as work immigrants in the 1960s and 1970s, without very much education in baggage. So we've seen those problems closely. If it is the framework of the IA agreement that is right to get a stronger spotlight on the situation of immigrants in the labour market, we are, for the time being, somewhat in doubt about it. But I can assure you that integrating immigrants into the labour market will be a priority task for the Government and the new red-green majority. This case may be so important and so special, because here we are talking about people who are not excluded, but who are going into the labour market, that it might deserve a programme of its own. We promise that it will have our full attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e235	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e238	We are now receiving alarming messages from more and more municipalities that the minimum pensioners represent an increasing proportion of those in need of social assistance. Many of those who today are minimum pensioners are the generation that through a long and active life has helped build up the wealth we today take for granted. In the case of the Progress Party, the pension shall not be sufficient as a basis of existence, but shall be such as to make sense of life, in the form that it shall be at such a level as to enable the minimum pensioner to afford to escape any benefits. Unfortunately, this is not the case for many. As I said at the outset, the alarming news comes that an increasing number of minimum pensioners have to resort to social assistance to avoid direct poverty. The party of progress believes this to be unworthy. For this reason, in its alternative draft budget, the Progress Party has proposed an increase of DKK 5 000. This will allow the generation that built this country to escape a few more of the benefits we take for granted, and for those who today have to go to the social offices to get help, to be able to drop it in the future. I am disappointed that the Government will not share in giving this promise to our minimum pensioners, especially after the promises made by the Workers' Party to the older part of the population in the election campaign, namely that the fight for the elderly and against poverty should be the first bid. Unfortunately, the new government – in its eagerness to ‘take’ the so-called rich – has gone the other way. Then I think about how the increase in the wealth tax will primarily affect the minimum pensioners who are sitting with their own houses, who on paper can look like relatively large values, which are now to be taxed further. It's worth noting that in order to pay the extra tax burden, the minimum pensioners have to take off their pension, which in turn means that they get even less to travel with, and perhaps the distance to the social office is even shorter. As you know, the social office demands that those seeking help realise their values. It means in its ultimate consequence that the minimum pensioner who is seeking help must sell his house to get that help. This is an unworthy situation that the Progress Party does not accept. It also came out well in the reply from the representative Christoffersen that many minimum pensioners have great values. So these big values are in the form of a house that's built maybe in the 1950s and 1960s, which they might have to realize in order to live a good life on. I could continue with the unsocial tax increases that will send several of those at the bottom of the ranks, into poverty, into the social office. I can, of course, mention the increase in food tax, which affects both minimum pensioners and young children's parents, and especially those young children's parents who are single-parents. This shows that the first step towards combating poverty is to lower or eliminate the taxes and taxes that make people who were initially able to live on their own labour income or pension do not. It is not without reason that the Workers' Party has removed the verse in the International dealing with taxes. In the 2002 budget agreement between the Progress Party and the Bondevik II Government, we were given the advantage of increasing equality between married and cohabiting and single pensioners. This led to the abbreviation going from 25 pst. to 15 pst. The party of progress believes that pension is a right that individuals have acquired over a long life as an independent individual, and it should not be reduced because they happen to be married or cohabited. For this reason, in its alternative draft state budget, the Progress Party has proposed that equality between the pension of married and unmarried pensioners should continue, so that the deduction for 2006 would be 10 pst. and continue with 5 pst. annual until both have a full pension. The Labour Party has had the slogan ‘Work for All’, but the problem is that they do not have a policy consistent with it. In order for more people to be able to work, a tax policy must be based on a policy that pays off for business to create jobs and pays off for employees to work — a policy that invests in research, schoolwork and infrastructure. Such policies will result in taxpayers saving large amounts of daily and labour market expenditure. In addition, such a policy, where more people get ordinary work, is the best form of poverty reduction. Such a policy is described in the 2006 Alternative State Budget of the Advance Party and is to be recommended for all Councils. Unfortunately, this government is going the opposite way through tax increases. As if not enough, they impose additional costs and burdens on business by increasing the employer’s liability for employees’ wages and salaries on leave from five to ten days and reducing the leave period from 42 to 34 weeks. I have to allow myself to question what the Government really thinks about this, because in the context of the revised national budget for 2005, i.e. just under six months ago, the Labour Party considered that the leave period should be 42 weeks, and during the budgetary procedure one year ago the same parties thought that the responsibility of the employer should be five days. One can ask himself the question of what has happened, since the working party to those degrees has changed its position. Yesterday, the Stortinget debated the position of the Transport and Communications Committee. I mention this because it has great employment importance, both in the short term and in the long term. A road construction effort would provide a stable and greatly improved business environment. Such a commitment would significantly increase stable employment. But unfortunately, the government is also jumping from its promises here, not only from the promises made in the election campaign, but also from the decisions made by the government parties together with the Progress Party in the treatment of the national transport plan. The Progress Party's alternative budget proposals would boost the growth of employment and more people would come to work. Unfortunately, there is a great danger that the overall arrangement of the Government will help to reduce the possibility of increased employment. The forwarding party is concerned that all those with residual labour may use it. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes that both the heading Investments in sheltered measures and the scheme of disability benefit as wage subsidies be strengthened. The Progress Party is concerned that the appropriations for these items will be reduced. Increased focus on and use of funds for this will lead to large amounts being saved by society on other chapters and items. But perhaps the most important thing is that those who are out of work today because of illness or disability are given the opportunity to return to work. Many today do not have the social network that a workplace provides, with an increased risk of mental problems, which in turn reduces the quality of life for individual and increased costs to society. A significant effort to restore those with residual labour that can be exploited by facilitating jobs based on the residual labour force of the individual will provide a significant increase in the quality of life of the individual. Several newspaper searches have shown problems with cars that come under the car system for people with disabilities. In particular, the Mercedes Vito car brand has been mentioned. In reply to me about this, it appears that the Council of State has given the Rikstrygdeverket a special responsibility to ensure that those affected financially do not get hurt. I'm very pleased with that. The car system requires those with disabilities to have the car for 11 years before they get a new car. This is a very long time, and I doubt whether there are anyone in this room who has one car in something near that period. In addition, when you know that this is above average life expectancy for passenger cars in Norway, it gets extra wrong. There is no limit to how much such a car is behind in the number of kilometres before it can be replaced, which in reality means that the car may be worn out long before the eleven years have passed. Those who get this type of car are completely dependent on the car to get there, which means that it is very likely that the car has worn out long before the eleven years have passed. One must also bear in mind that this will lead to disproportionate annual operating costs when the car has been driven far. On this basis, the Progress Party has made a proposal that, in the context of the revised national budget, the Government should provide an assessment of whether the number of kilometres the car travels, also on the basis of which the car is to be replaced. With this, I will address the proposals that have been put forward by the Progress Party in the vote, and the proposal we are co-sponsored to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e268	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e274	In the budget setting, the Progress Party and the rest of the minority are moving towards reintroducing holiday pay for those on daily pay, among others. because many will get into work during the vesting period. It is true that many of them will get to work, but there is no argument, at least not to take the money from those who actually get free. The minority writes on page 20 that they want a re-priority from holiday pay to active follow-up and support for jobseekers from Aetat. Then I have a question for the representative Svendsen: How does he think Aetat should ensure better and more active follow-up when the Progress Party wants to cut transfers? Does the representative think it would be easier or more difficult to follow up with fewer employees and cut for Aetat?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e281	Our commitment to the 2006 state budget is not promoted in this area; we are promoting it in the financial situation. It's true that we cut off these items, for the simple reason that with our overall tax and tax arrangements, unemployment will be drastically reduced, and more people will come to work, which in turn means that you don't need the funds used for Aetat. What's important to us is to create jobs, so you get decent, regular jobs out in the market. That is the way we intend to solve this: more people in ordinary work and fewer on labour market measures and on day-to-day pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e288	First to the property tax: I want to make the Progress Party aware that 40 pst. by pensioners, they do not pay taxes on wealth, 40 pst. pensioners receive reduced taxes on wealth by this government and 20 pst. receive increased taxes on wealth as a result of the deduction from the base does not compensate for the adjustment of the value of the housing and the stock discount. So the situation is that there are fewer pensioners who get property taxes with this government than with the previous one. So: I have read the programme of the Progress Party with great amazement, and in particular the point of the disabled, because it says that ‘integration in society must be linked to the degree of disability of the individual’, and that the individual must be free to ‘select the degree of integration he or she wants, as long as this is not detrimental to others’. I want to ask the Progress Party: Does the Progress Party think it is such that we others should be able to say no to having disabled people as neighbours because we don't like the wheelchair ramp, or because we don't like the neighborhood? What in the world is it that the Progress Party thinks of such a program formulation, that we are the other people who are going to decide what is a disadvantage to us, and thereby determine where disabled people are going to be allowed to live?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e297	It is quite clear in our proposal for an alternative state budget what we think about this. Indeed, the Progress Party wants to put the residual labour force of the disabled to work. Therefore, contrary to what the Government is doing, we are placing considerable funds on sheltered measures, we are spending significantly more money than the Government to get the untrained back to work, for the simple reason that this will lead to a much better life for the individual who has a disability. That is why, as I said, we have transferred significantly more money to this, in order to give them a proper and good offer, a job adapted to their needs. I guess that shows us what we're saying about this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e302	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e305	The welfare policy must, in the Right's view, be based on people's natural desire for self-sufficiency and must facilitate the widest possible supply of themselves and their own income through work and income. Participation in the labour market is the most important safeguard for social inclusion and against poverty. It is therefore very gratifying to record fresh figures from Aetat, which show that the decline in unemployment has intensified in the last month. In total, unemployment has fallen by 11 300 people from November last year to November this year. The number of job vacancies has also increased sharply in recent months. Everything therefore suggests that we can expect a further decline in unemployment in the coming months. The Norwegian economy is in the midst of a very strong growth. Norwegian exports have never been so high. We are experiencing the founding tree of the times. More Nordics than ever are at work. Investments are rising and unemployment is falling. In short, Norwegian economy is going very well at the moment. However, the good times in the economy have not come of their own accord. The Right and Cooperation Administration were able to keep track of the very floor plan of the economy at the time we were in government. It is about low taxes, which reduce the cost of starting and operating in Norway, low interest rates, which allow investment and establishment of new businesses, and a price at which Norwegian goods and services can be sold. All of this has contributed to the fact that Jens Stoltenberg and his government have come to the table. Even Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has obviously realized this now that the election campaign is over. In her financial speech in Stortinget, she said the following: ‘Norwegian economy is solid. We expect strong economic growth next year, good growth in employment and a decline in unemployment.’ And on the other hand, ‘Nordic economy is in very good condition, and many other countries can envy our situation.’ Do not delete a bad certificate from the country's new finance minister to the finance minister and the government that has run Norway for four years. And to link this directly to this debate: the best social policy that can be pursued is the policy that makes sure that the economy is in order, that people can enjoy security in the job, security in order to pay their bills in time, security for their homes and homes. Otherwise, when the economy is not in order, it hits blindly, and those who are hit first and hardest are the ones who have it most difficult in advance. Sick leave is also falling. Total absences in the first quarter of 2005 decreased by 15 pst. compared to the first quarter of the previous year and absences continued to decline in the second quarter of 2005. Compared with the previous year, the decrease was 12.5 pst. The reasons for this focus on sick leave work throughout working life, in line with the objectives of the agreement on inclusive working life and the new sick leave rules introduced from 1 July 2004. The sky, however, is not completely schizophrenic. At the same time as the Norwegian economy consumes farms in record speed, Norwegian entrepreneurs become more pessimistic. A study by Sentio, published in the Evening Post on December 5, shows that only 19 pst. of those who started in 2004, plan to hire people during the next year. The vast majority of enterprises have no plans to grow at all. What is the result of this pessimism? Perhaps it is simply because of Stoltenberg & Co. are in the process of implementing the policy on which they were elected. The taxes have so far increased by almost NOK 11 billion, and from the contribution to Karin Andersen earlier here we hear that this policy is going to continue. As soon as the government got the chance, it reversed the co-operation government's commitment to innovation in the budget and cut 95 million. in the appropriations for research and innovation. In addition, the Research Fund will be reduced by DKK 25 billion compared to the proposals of the Cooperation Government. In addition, the government of Stoltenberg has proposed a more rigid working environment law by tightening up access to temporary employment and the possibility of agreeing on voluntary overtime. The government's reverse work environment law will weaken the basis for increased employment. And maybe worst of all, it'll build even higher barriers between those inside, and those outside of work. Unfortunately, the Government has also put in the budget of the Labour and Social Committee proposals which can help create a more exclusive working life, contrary to the objectives of the IA Agreement. I'm aiming for, for example. to the proposal to continue the waiting pay system for government employees – an anti-social system that has helped to make it possible for older people to give up their jobs too often in conversion and redundancy. All 90 pst. the waiting wage earners are over 50 years of age. In a situation where Norway needs more labour and more people are at work, we cannot have schemes that actively help to keep people out of work. In order to ensure that older workers can stay longer in work, the waiting pay scheme is definitely wrong medicine. This has also been confirmed by Aetat through its opinion on the legislative procedure. The waiting pay system, which too many outside the state are a well-kept secret, is actually so red that a 55-year-old can go on waiting pay for the whole of 12 years. Therefore, the Co-operation Board proposed to remove the scheme, but would at the same time introduce transitional arrangements to ensure that no-one who is currently receiving a waiting salary would change their terms. While the Stoltenberg government is going in the wrong direction in relation to including more in the labour market, the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left stand together in the budgetary position of the Labour and Social Committee to strengthen the targeted efforts for the inclusion of disabled persons and persons with disabilities. In total, we're proposing nearly 100 million. extra to measures aimed at increasing the number of disabled persons and persons with disabilities in the workplace. This is an important step and a natural follow-up to the efforts of the Cooperative Government in recent years. Since 2001, the number of job vacancies has been strengthened by more than 700 new jobs, and the number of job-seekers has increased sharply. In addition, a new probationary system has been put in place in which disability pensions can be used for a longer period as a subsidy to employers who employ unemployees. Temporary disability benefit is introduced so that people who may have the hope of returning to work are no longer permanently parked outside the labour market as disability pensioners. There is also a project to help former long-term social welfare beneficiaries get to work and education. Over several years, children under the age of seven have been exempted from self-payment for healthcare. In the 2006 draft budget of the Bondevik II Government, there was a proposal to extend the exemption to children under 12 from 1 January 2006. This is also an important response to the most difficult families with children. I am pleased that these measures are also followed up by the new government, but at the same time I record that the government of Stoltenberg has not come up with a single new proposal for targeted measures to get more people to work. In several areas, as mentioned above, one goes in the opposite direction, and that is a sin. The starting point for Jens Stoltenberg's government is the very best, but the grips it has taken so far do not promise good for the Norwegian economy and working life. The government conducts an old-fashioned socialist policy, a policy that will not help to equip Norway for the future, but, on the contrary, reverses the time for many years. This is bad news for both jobseekers, workers and managers. Finally, I would like to address the minority publishers that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e339	The representative Martin Engeset has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e344	The representatives of the former government parties prefer to make it as if the new government were coming to the table. What they do not tell us is that there are several tens of thousands of unemployed people around the table who are also to be taken care of in the time that comes. The representative of Engeset's party trap and former Minister of Labour and Administration Victor D. Norman is making a thought-provoking contribution to Today's Business on 17 September this year in order to increase the level of compensation for the unemployed. The title is ‘Bloodful justice!’. So in a cost-effective self-critical article, Norman says that the level of compensation for the unemployed should have been increased. Does Engeset agree with his party trap in this? And in that case, it wouldn't have been a good start to start by supporting the introduction of the holiday supplement, which according to Norman's own figures would increase the compensation rate to the long-term unemployed from 62 pst. to 68 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e351	The best policy for the unemployed is the policy that provides the basis for more jobs, and as I documented quite thoroughly in my contribution, we now have a situation where there is a significant growth in the number of jobs. There have never been so many people working in this country in Norway's history. The best policy for those leaving the job is to improve the chances of getting a sustainable, profitable and secure job. And we now see the results after four years with a consistent policy that has gone in the right direction. With regard to the commentary article for Victor D. Norman in Today's Business, it was interesting in many ways. But what the representative Henriksen does not mention in his reply to me is the whole of this article. In relation to the level of compensation in all the different social security systems, Norman pointed out that it might not be very fair for one to have 100 pst. pay if you were away from work one day or two, while if you were so unhappy to lose your job, you would be eaten off by 64 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e358	When I hear the post from Engeset and Right, it is clear that the Right is not finished with the grieving process after the government change, and they can not really decide whether things are going well, or whether they are going well. I would like to remind you that in the vote, his party also agrees to demonstrate that this government's budget line actually provides 4,000 more jobs than the previous government's budget line. Is it so that Engeset has been unconscious at the moment, when he has been included in this description, and comes with a totally different description of the situation today? Or is it so that the Right and the Engeset actually realize, as they do in the budget setting today, that this budget arrangement actually gives more jobs than his own?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e365	The representative Karin Andersen knows just as well as I do that in the different models that the Ministry of Finance is running through the different budgetary options, you always get an answer at the other end about what you theoretically get from more jobs. It is quite obvious that in addition to the proposed Bondevik II Government, the addition of NOK 3 to 4 billion to the municipal economy will result in a few more jobs in the public sector — yes. But on the other hand – and I tried to point that out in my post – there is a policy that goes in the wrong direction regarding the conditions of business. Because, in fact, without a profit-creating business and job security, which pays taxes to municipalities, counties and countries, there is no basis for employment in the public sector at all. Therefore, the value creation is the most important thing, not to start at the other end, by distributing money until you have created it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e373	The best social policy that can be pursued is that it's order in the economy, says Engeset. He also says that self-sufficiency through work and personal income must be the main objective. Yes, there are statements that you can agree with in many ways. It is also the case that this government has presented a budget which is in the same financial balance as the previous government's draft budget. It will certainly be exceptional in view of the recent situation in Stortinget that the Stortinget adopts a budget that does not have a weakened budgetary balance through the deliberations. In this way, I also see that those who assess our economy externally give credit to the Government and note that a solid economic policy is now in place in Norway that gives good hope for growth. The question is then, on the basis of the statement made by the representative Engeset about the 3 to 4 billion who are being pampered into the public sector, and the 4000 jobs that this gives: are there any less-value jobs created by getting more hands in care in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e380	No, there's by no means any inferior jobs. But what I tried to point out is that the basis for all jobs in the public sector is a business that is safe, that goes with profits, and that pays taxes to municipalities, counties and states. It is the very foundation and the floor plan for us to have a functioning welfare system in Norway at all. Then I think it is a pleasure to be able to refer to completely sympathetic figures that are now available for the 2004 tax intake. So they show that the tax payments for individuals, households and businesses – the oil sector was completely excluded, because it is in a very special situation – increased by DKK 24.2 billion in 2004. So government tax revenues increased by $24.2 billion last year. It tells of a policy that, despite lower taxes for both individuals and businesses, has created a situation where the social shock is greater and there is more to distribution. That's what I call a success story.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e387	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e390	The co-operation administration presented a budget for 2006 with priorities in the field of the Labour and Social Committee of which the Christian People's Party is proud. There is a clear child profile and a clear social profile in the draft budget. Appropriations for targeted measures to combat poverty were also increased in 2006. The proposal contains measures for DKK 1.6 billion more than when the poverty action plan was launched in 2002. In the opposition situation, today's government parties tried as hard as they could to minimize this targeted effort. It now appears that the principles underpinned by the Cooperative Government to combat poverty have been taken over by the new government – as these principles: Work is the safest way out of poverty. Therefore, participation in the labour market must be, as far as possible, the most important anchor for combating poverty. A high-participating working life provides the best basis for good and broad general welfare systems. People who are unable to work because of sickness, disability or involuntary unemployment shall have an obvious right to good social security systems. I am particularly pleased that the Co-operation Board provided room for a strong improvement in the children's supplement for people who receive temporary unpaid pay. In general, the benefit is no worse than permanent disability pension, and people will receive a follow-up that improves the chances of going from social benefits to work. Many of those who have received temporary unpaid pay have been responsible for their dependants and have had lower child allowances than they would have had if they had a permanent disability pension. Although fewer people get the children's supplement with the need test than with the flat crown supplement all up to now, those who need it the most will get a huge increase. It is positive and will improve the everyday life of many families with young children. I am also pleased that the Co-operation Government has provided a budget to ensure that the special labour market measures in the field of poverty eradication will be available across the next year. The Christian People's Party is for the use of labour market measures where there is a better and more targeted offer than direct job search and exploitation of Aeta's communication skills. Some groups need to increase their qualifications in order to succeed in working life. The Co-operation Board has proposed new and good measures for disabled people and their families. Parents with children who have been hospitalised or are seriously ill are now given an improved opportunity to combine part-time work and care. Aid for technical aids will be extended to new areas in line with technological developments. Deaf people, hearing-impaired people, blind people and people with severe disabilities receive support for the acquisition of new products that make it easier to be part of our communication society. Unfortunately, some people experience that re-entry attempts fail due to disease, and several of these have been given a few weeks to stop social security payments because of the need for decisions. I'm glad that this hole in the social security system is now dense. It means a lot to the people involved. The previous government extended from 3 to 5 years the restful right to disability pension for non-pensioners who will try their way into working life. It will give more people a sense of security and motivation to try their way back to work. Our government made a record investment in professional recruitment. The Christian People's Party is serious about this effort. We are in favour of labour market measures when it clearly increases the chances of vulnerable groups to be better off in the labour market. We are re-prioritising funds for stronger efforts to provide more and better guidance support, especially to young people who may or may not have a career as a disability pensioner. The Christian People's Party shall be recognizable and predictable also in opposition. Our goal is to facilitate an inclusive working life, and we will provide good social arrangements that focus on those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e429	The Christian People's Party is wrong when they believe that the criticism of the poverty campaign of the previous government was that the measures were wrong. The problem was that there was too little of them, and that they were financed by cuts that went out on people who were unemployed or had trouble. That's what the criticism was about. One of the things that has surprised me at this budgetary procedure is that the Christian People's Party is opposed to increasing the child supplement in rehabilitation and medical rehabilitation, on the grounds that it is a temporary benefit. Do you think this is so short that it doesn't matter? For many, the period in which you first go on sick pay, looked at rehabilitation and then at rehabilitation for several years, in the same way as for temporary unpaid pay, and with the same consequences for the children concerned. Too many children are almost the whole childhood! For the Government and the majority, it is important to keep children’s needs in focus. Does not the Christian People’s Party see that this is a period that can be at least as long as at temporary unpaid pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e436	For the Christian People's Party, the most important thing has been that we have done something with the child supplement for people who receive temporary unpaid pay, precisely because it has a longer duration than the other benefits. Then one must also look at the whole of politics and not just at a single piece. Here we have been with and arranged for more families to have work, and we have received more money to travel with. Kaka has grown bigger, and there has become more money for well-being. For each of the heads that we've given in tax bills, we've actually given two dollars for welfare measures. I think it is a little special that SV is perhaps countering one of the best welfare schemes for families with children, precisely by fighting against cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e443	The social partners are now negotiating – dialogue, perhaps – with the Minister of Labour on the agreement on inclusive working life. It's an important deal. We know that sick leave has been reduced as a result of this agreement. But we also know that the other partial goals, i.e. the ambition to get more people with disabilities to work and more seniors to work, are very close to success. All members of the Committee agree to strengthen the criteria for this. The Christian People's Party also attaches great importance to getting a third main objective into the agreement, namely the inclusion of immigrants. The social partners, especially the employers' side, have strongly warned us against this in particular. the hearings we've had. Does the Christian People's Party believe that it is important that this main objective should be included, regardless of what the social partners think about that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e450	For the Christian People's Party, what the social partners say is not the most important thing. The most important thing is that we help people who are out of the labour market to get in. I think the representative Lise Christoffersen gave a very positive answer instead, that maybe you're trying to make your own arrangement for immigrants. We're going to be involved in that. The important thing for us is that they get help. There are more than ten times higher unemployment among immigrants. They're well-qualified. There are doctors who have to go and wash the floor because we do not show that we need them, even if we need more work assistance in Norway. So I think it's important to fight for it. I think it's a good opportunity to have it in the IA agreement. And the Prime Minister has said that he will assess it, that it is possible it can be a system, a way one can do it. For me, and for the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have a binding agreement, where one takes this working group seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e455	I noticed that Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund in his statement stressed the Bondevik II government's budget proposal, and it is so natural that one chooses to highlight one's own government originally promoted. But does not Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund also think that there is a positive increase to the Bondevik II budget that Stoltenberg II, or the red-green government, has now come? The representative says that for every penny in tax bills, two kroner were given for welfare in the Bondevik II budget. Wouldn't it have been good with three dollars for well-being instead of one dollar in tax bills? It is no secret that I have previously stood on this pulpit and tried to go a little bit in the Christian People's Party, because I would have liked to have seen that the Christian People's Party had also been on what we are on. The question is, is it too early to say anything about what is going to happen to the Christian People's Party further beyond the period?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e462	It's always nice to be popular. One of the things I'm very happy about this government is that all the concrete measures against poverty promoted by the Bondevik II government have been continued by this labor party-dominated government, crown for crown. I think that's very positive, and it shows that despite the disagreement that it seems like you have here in the hall, we agree quite a lot. Some of what I think we've got very well in Bondevik II is that we've been able to think more completely, that we've managed to create more jobs, that more things to live on from their own income. It's been important to me. Last year, there were 59 billion more dollars in tax revenue because more people were at work. That means that we have more to distribute without having to increase taxes further. So I think it's been very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e472	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e475	The labour force is our most important resource in both building the country and creating well-being for the individual. Providing maximum access to the labour market is central to the Centre Party and to the Red-Green Government. For most, the outlook is brighter than for a long time: the economy is asking for new workers in both industry and service activities. The municipal sector, which has suffered from meager conditions and constraints, has been given a promise through the 2006 budget decision of the Stortingen, which will give more hands to work and better services to people the most. There is optimism in the country, and it has declined far from after the change of government of the harvest. That's the situation. Equally full, it is a main challenge to limit the exclusion from the labour market of the too large groups who are struggling with a perhaps limited workforce, but who are equally fully willing to work. We about 60, young people who come straight from completed education, people with different levels of disability and immigrants, all too often have problems getting in or being allowed to be in a work situation. Among the 110 000 unemployed, the more than 100 000 who are undergoing rehabilitation and the more than 300,000 unemployed, there are too many who want to get back to or into work but who encounter closed doors around the workplace. ‘Work for everyone is the most important thing we can do to reduce social differences,’ we say in the Soria Moria Declaration. The realisation of a new labour and welfare management is Project No. 1 in work for a more inclusive working life. At the same time, project No. 1 in work on poverty reduction. Not everyone will be able to have a natural place in working life at all times, but many, many more will have to be given the opportunity to get into work — if necessary, on the basis of individual opportunities. The government is putting a heavy strain on the implementation of the NAV reform. It gets the Storting plenty of opportunity to come back to next year. We have a good basis for making this welfare reform a good thing for both peoples and countries. It is a total mass that wants the reform. Our challenge will be to build a reform that is not just for people most, but for everyone. The fourth part of today’s work has to experience that the new welfare offices in each municipality give them new hope and new opportunities. For 2006, in the additionalproposition, money has been added to 2000 new action places. Aetate is strengthened by 20 million. kr, corresponding to 40 jobs, for a more intensive and targeted follow-up of jobseekers. The Central Party, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, asks that this be used for a more active labour market policy and reinforced efforts aimed at young people, migrants and people with disabilities. Through social security and labour market legislation, and also through measures under municipal responsibility, we have a wide range of instruments designed to strengthen the opportunities of people with disabilities to enter the labour market — but a wide range of instruments that are likely to work too poorly together. We are struggling with the fact that the range of measures provided for by different laws, agencies and rights, far from necessarily working for the individual's needs in their unique situation. The individualization is too often lost in the system's adaptation to its own framework in today's Velferds-Norway. It's a problem that we now have to do something about. There may still be a shortage of money in a wide range of areas. For example, I think that cost limitations related to tools to help people with disabilities get into education or work stop some people’s ability to achieve their goals. What we save under each scheme, more than often we lose, is that people are not allowed to use their resources and are given the opportunity to become contributors to the community fund by getting into work. Some budgetary frameworks therefore still need to be raised, for example: the framework for means to facilitate the everyday life of disabled persons. However, there is reason to believe that money is also saved in better organisation of welfare management. Better provision and a simpler everyday life for those with the most difficulty must therefore be the goal when we now start to work on building a new work and welfare management. There will be a major role for this committee, for this department – to look at the Council of State – and for this growth in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e497	The representative, Sundsbø, said that they had to make everyday life easier for those who have the most difficulty. I record that the government parties have now been involved in increasing the food tax. Unfortunately, it's just the Progress Party that's left, the only party that doesn't want to increase food VAT. Does the Central Party believe that this is a reasonable way to set up the charging system? Does the Center Party and the representative representing the government think that this makes sense and makes those who have the least, the poorest, increase their purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e504	As the representative Eriksson probably knows, the Center Party was a champion of it, and we were a happy party on the day we were halved the food tax. Then it's clear that we're not happy to get it up again, we're not. But it remains – how much better it is that we have had to accept Mr Bondevik II’s proposal for food tax, but at the same time it has received a budget that has helped in such a formidable way to make everyday life easier for them, for example. will have a school offer, for those who are dependent on the municipality’s care services for elderly people, and for those for whom we have made life easier in this budget area. It may not be that the food tax is welfare theme No. 1 when we're going to evaluate the total picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e511	Work is the most important way out of poverty. Everyone agrees. There is also agreement that it is not acceptable for people to be dependent on social assistance over a long period of time, as this makes it difficult to get back to work. However, social assistance must continue to be a safety net for people who are not employed and who are not entitled to social security benefits. The centre party underlines in its programme that social assistance shall be an individual benefit provided after an individual assessment. The lot is now in government with SV, which believes that there should be national minimum standards, higher than the current rates. Year-of-life and cost of living are very different in Norway. The Soria Moria Declaration is relatively woolly in this area. Is it possible for the representative Sundsbø to determine whether there should be local anchoring, or is the SV's government direction to be the policy in force in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e520	Social assistance is a local anchoring system to be provided as necessary. At the same time, however, we all see that there may be dilemmas when we introduce new state schemes, for example. the child supplements. We've seen cases where many municipalities have used it to reduce social benefits. It's a dilemma if the Storing enters and improves arrangements for the most difficult people, to do something for them, and then you see that there's an opportunity to reduce this at the other end. This is a dilemma that we are living with, and I hope we can get to grips with when we get a new work and welfare management, get a new welfare office in each municipality, and get a better dialogue between the different agencies, whether they are state or municipal. But from my point of view, social benefits still have to be an individually assessed benefit from the municipality. There is nothing in the Soria Moria declaration that prevents us from continuing to do so, even if we have SIFO's standards, which we have always had.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e527	In the program of the Centre Party we can read that the party wants something to be done for the poor children in Norway. That desire and that vision are agreed upon by the Left Heart. That children live in poverty in an abundance society is none of us can accept. My question to the representative Sundsbø will be the same as I asked to the representative Andersen, because the Central Party is also behind the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, who leaves one of his first drafts as the Council of State is that he wants to cut the welfare arrangements. Then my question is: What arrangements do the Senterpartiet and the representative Sundsbø see that it can be cut in?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e534	This government will certainly go into history as a government that strengthens welfare systems. I am sure of that, and I am sure that the Council of State will help. I feel that the government council we have placed in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has an obligation to go through any arrangement to see whether they are functioning in relation to the challenges we face. These challenges are particularly important now when we are working towards a new labour and welfare management. I am not at all concerned that the Council of State is engaged in that work. I would be very concerned if he tried to – let me say it this way – break through arrangements, without us in the Storting clearly being on the team. But I have no reason to believe that will be tried – and then we will show ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e541	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e544	Security of life, health and well-being is fundamental. Feeling secure that a good welfare state helps when you need help is very important to most people. The Norwegian welfare state is a cross-political project. We all agree more or less that a solid welfare state is important and correct in today's Norway. But the direction and the means we can probably disagree on. That is, to a large extent, because through different approaches, the debate and the best solutions that can be supported as much as possible. Let it also be a call for the Minister of Labour and Inclusion to represent a majority government. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has said that it will present a comprehensive plan for the eradication of poverty. It's a good vision, as left-hand parts. Because poverty in our time, in our rich welfare society, is unacceptable, the government of Bondevik – as the first in recent times – presented its own action plan against poverty. The total effort against poverty amounted to DKK 4.9 billion in the period 2002-2006. The statistics show that the number of beneficiaries of social assistance is falling, more are coming to work, and the growth in the number of unemployed seems to be flattening. The government of Stoltenberg takes over the state council posts at a time when important arrows point in the right direction. We all know that combating poverty is complicated, and it's not just about money. We share the goal. If we share our view of what the good measures are, time will show. I can at least promise that we will be constructive and make good representations in that field along the way. For the Left, it is very important that the NAV reform is followed up in a good way. We have great expectations for NAV. There was broad agreement on the NAV reform when it was adopted at Stortinget in May this year. There is also a broad consensus that the best possible link to working life is very important for the well-being of individuals. We should not fail to see that there are people living in this country who do not have and will not have a stable relationship with the world of work. A welfare state must also safeguard those who fall outside the ordinary working life. Then we don't talk about social clients who have to learn to get up in the morning, as the Council of State chose to express it in the newspaper for a while back. In the book ‘The Psychology of Fatty’, Kjell Ablief describes how the experience of poverty is for long-term recipients of social assistance. Their descriptions probably put the Council's opinions in a slightly strange light. The left is committed to systems that create security and dignity, and that result in simplification, so that citizens can make use of the mechanisms. In particular, we are concerned with obligations and requirements – both for users and for the public. There has to be a reciprocity. The welfare state cannot be a static size but needs to change in line with contemporary challenges. Schemes that were right when the majority's standard of living was low are not necessarily the right ones at a time when the majority lives in prosperity, while a minority falls by the wayside. That means that we still have to be creative and critical in how we choose to design the welfare state. We must be open to new solutions to new or old problems. I feel that the Council of State is. The question, of course, is which way the Council of State wants to go. If we are to interpret his opinions in the media, he wants to preserve the principle of universality, but will cut into some welfare schemes to overcome poverty. For the Left, however, increased targeting is important. Or as we tend to say, more to those who need it the most. That means we have to invest the most resources on those who need a lift. There's a recognition that the majority of us are doing very well. Many of us want to renounce new, big schemes – for the benefit of those who need it. The ability to give priority to those who fall outside is an expression of fundamental and genuine solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e563	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e566	The new majority reintroduces the holiday supplement during the day-to-day period in the case of unemployment. The Right Party, the Christian Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party strongly argue against this. The holiday supplement is paid the year after the salary. Since most unemployed people go unemployed for less than one year — fortunately — the holiday supplement is not needed, says the opposition. It's just 11 pst. of the unemployed a year or more, they claim. There's no reason to doubt that number. But I'm reacting in the brutal way of arguing. 89 pst. I'm fine. Only 11 pst. need the scheme, so we're going to cut the scheme. My questions to Skelstad are: Is he proud of this way of reasoning? Does it rhyme with what he just said about the need for more for those who have the least? And is that in line with Left's long social commitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e573	The holiday supplement we have thought is not necessary in relation to this, because we believe that this also has to do with targeting. After all, most people have come back to work, as the representative Myrli himself pointed out. Then we don't see that there's a basis for inputting it. It won't be a targeted measure when people, after all, are out of work. Then in many ways it will also be a wrong signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e578	It seems as if it is necessary to clarify to the representative from the left that SV has said that the welfare system that we can expect to get rid of is the cash support. In addition, we see that the development of welfare contracts can make the use of some other welfare mechanisms less central. When I hear Skelstad's insightful contributions about how it is to go a long time on social assistance, and how it works, I'm also a little bit more surprised that in the last period they helped cut off measures for those who had it difficult. The cuts were twice the size of the poverty package they set in. The Soria Moria declaration states the term ‘welfare contract’ and it should be an offer to all those who are excluded, for example: a treatment offer, training or work. There may be different types of activity that will end up with a level of revenue approaching SIFO rates. Does the Left see that this can be a path towards what the Left is talking about, which is a civil wage, and what SV calls a social wage?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e587	I notice that Andersen's representative is still trying to push away and will not mention which arrangements you want to cut yourself. The left has stood for a targeting of what we want in relation to this. We want to establish a principle of what we call "citizen pay" – for which others may have different concepts – as a basic security. The left wants that basic security to be just a civil wage, with dignity, security and simplification. But in addition to that, we also see the targeting of the various measures, which are important for lifting up those who need it most.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e594	I understand the representative of Skkelstad so that he believes that our parties should stand together – and I share his view on it – in focusing on the children by the actions we are going to take against poverty. That gives me reason to ask if it would not have been natural to support the Government's proposal to also increase the child supplements in the rehabilitation scheme and for those undergoing medical rehabilitation. It will provide the necessary support for people in a difficult economic situation. Does Skelstad not see that even when it comes to the holiday allowance supplement for those who have a daily allowance, it is precisely the children it will benefit, even though the parents are at work the year the money comes to payment? Otherwise there will be no special occasion for vacation that year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e599	I notice that the representative Sundsbø is busy with some of the same things here. What I want to say about this children's supplement is, among other things, that we wanted to evaluate the current arrangements. But in addition, I want to say that when it comes to the holiday supplement, I think it's a little focused, because the ones we're talking about, after all, are back to work. It must then be more targeted to focus action on those who actually do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e604	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e607	One of the main objectives of the Government's policy is to enable all those with a working capacity to participate in the labour market. Participation in the labour market is important to include individuals in society, so as to exploit their skills and secure their own income. High employment and low unemployment will be a crucial contribution to balancing living conditions and a necessary foundation for the further development of the welfare state. The government has announced that it will present a comprehensive plan for the eradication of poverty in Norway. The high poverty reduction targets will have an impact on the government’s priorities throughout the ageing period. We are already starting in the 2006 budget with an increase in measures to combat poverty of nearly DKK 1/2 billion compared to the Bondevik II budget proposal. This government has a broader perspective on poverty reduction than the Bondevik II government. We believe that poverty cannot be combated only by measures aimed at those who have already come into a low-income and social situation. It is at least equally important to avoid people falling into such a situation. The prevention of all living conditions must be central. A policy that creates jobs and an active labour market policy is also a policy against poverty. We will pursue a policy to get more people to work. We want to make it possible for more people to live on their own labour income and to be included in the work community. At the same time, it is important that the public offer persons who are temporarily or on a more permanent basis unable to work, social benefits from which they can live. In particular, it is important that the social welfare schemes are designed in such a way that children are not affected and excluded because of the financial situation of their parents. The government is proposing to increase the children’s plugins for recipients of reinsurance and rehabilitation benefits. In addition, we propose increased appropriations to improve the integration of immigrants, to improve the provision of services to drug users, to increase the boute rate in the housing support scheme and to strengthen the response to child poverty through child protection. The labour market is improving and unemployment has been falling in recent months. By the end of November, 72 300 persons were registered as full-time job seekers at Aetat. I also record that long-term unemployment has decreased and that the prospects for 2006 are positive. Due, inter alia, to: stronger growth in the local government sector is now expected to grow more strongly in employment in 2006 than in the 2006 national budget. However, some job-seekers have difficulty getting a foothold in their working life. In order to increase the transition to work among groups that are, by experience, dependent on the improvement of the labour market, the Government will pursue an offensive labour market policy. The government has therefore proposed more than 2000 regular action places than proposed by the Bondevik Government. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee will also facilitate targeted and reinforced efforts towards the long-term unemployed, immigrants and young people. This is also a good starting point for an assessment of a more systematic approach to responses to individual groups in the future. Within the framework of the Government’s proposal for 2000 more action sites in 2006, the allocation to the Municipality of Oslo is increased. This is done in the context of the test of municipal responsibility for the implementation of labour market measures. The experiment will be reinforced by funds equivalent to 100 new action sites. In total, the Municipality of Oslo receives funds corresponding to 500 places in 2006. The Government is committed to strengthening the basis for a well-functioning working life and will, therefore, reverse the weaknesses in the protection and rights of workers adopted during the previous ageing period. The holiday supplement for recipients of daily allowances has been proposed to be re-introduced on a earned basis from 1 July 2006. The proposal provides a basis for holiday for persons with long leave periods. The government is in favour of the right to a daily allowance during the period of leave being set at 34 weeks. This is eight weeks more than the Bondevik government's 2006 proposal provided. At the same time, the employer’s period of pay is set at 10 days, as proposed by the Bondevik Government. With the low level of leave and expected improvement in the labour market ahead, the proposal provides a basis for predictability and stable framework conditions both for employees and for enterprises, although it is such that we should have discussions with the social partners on this scheme in due course. The Government proposes to continue the waiting pay system as it was before the examination of the draft law on government officials and officials in spring 2005. The purpose of the pay guarantee scheme is to guarantee employees’ acquired rights in relation to pay and holiday pay. The Bondevik Government proposed to implement regulatory simplifications that would reduce the total payments made to workers in bankruptcy by approx. One hundred million. kr per. years. The Government agrees that rapid processing and payment to individuals is important and believes that this can be done without seriously weakening acquired rights. The decision to transfer the administration of the scheme from the Labour Inspectorate to Aetat from 1 January 2007 will form the basis for faster payments, inter alia. through a pre-shooting system and because Aetat has a well-established management system for payment to users. Increased labour migration is good for Norway. But we cannot accept that foreign labour is not offered proper pay and working conditions. There are many cases of gross underpayment and exploitation of non-resident workers, especially in the construction industry, and often combined with work that can be hazardous to health. The government will review social dumping measures to see if changes or new measures can work better. As pointed out by the majority of the Committee, the establishment of a supplementary social welfare scheme for persons with short residence in Norway is an important reform. In the legislative proposal and in the Committee’s position on supplementary social benefits, it was highlighted as essential that Norway be granted a derogation from the scheme in respect of the EEA Agreement’s requirement to pay benefits in the EEA area. The question was dealt with by the Commission in May, without any objections being raised. The formal decision of the EEA Committee is expected to take place in February. In the circumstances, the Government has not found sufficient grounds for postponing its entry into force until the formal decision of the EEA Committee exists. The Act of Supplementary Social Welfare will therefore, as provided, enter into force on 1 January 2006. A working life for all, the fight against poverty and integration and the inclusion of immigrants are key objectives of the Government. The government will assess changes in policies in these areas in a key communication on work, welfare and inclusion. By going through existing schemes, turning all the stones, the Government's ambition is to have an instrument that is better suited to the major challenges in the field. In this review, efforts in some areas could be reduced correctly, as resources could be better used elsewhere. The ambitions are high, but they should be too, as the benefits for both society and individuals are great if we succeed better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e651	I have a question about social security cars, which there have been some comments about recently. In the evening mail both yesterday and today there is a notice about these cars with which there has been a lot of fault. It is therefore a pleasure to be able to read in the paper today, and also hear the answer that the Council of State has given, that now it is cleared up in this. At the same time, however, we have a regulation that requires social security users to have the car for 11 years. Eleven years is a dramatic long time. At the same time, there is no limitation in the number of kilometres the user can drive the car. This means that if the disabled person or disabled person is working and uses the car for the work – which is absolutely necessary, if so – there will be large distances between the car and the problems that start earlier. Will the Council of State take the initiative to review this and look at a scheme — see if it can be cut for years, or if there may be limits in the number of kilometres?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e658	We all have a past. I remember that when I started on the social committee last time, this was one of the themes I was working on. The problem is that I don't quite remember what the conclusion was. But I remember very well that the theme was also that you could not only look at the age of the car. Not least for those who depended on the car every day to get to and from work, and who could have a rather long working path, it would be a formidable number of kilometres if you had one and the same car for 11 years. I believe that at the time we were working on the question of introducing an additional criterion, where the number of kilometres was also evaluated. As I said, I don't fully remember the conclusion of the work that time. That means I have the opportunity to ask for this now. I will do that, and then I will come back to the representative Svendsen with an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e667	A definite highlight so far in the State Council of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's career as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs was the interview he gave to Today's Business on 25 November – not because the interview created considerable uprisings and resistance in other parts of the Red-Green Camp, but because the Council of State in this interview points to some very central issues for which you have to go into if you are to be able to reform the welfare society and help those who are the weakest. However, my question concerns the following: in its contribution, the Council of State confirms that it may be necessary to reduce some welfare schemes in order to achieve other and more important objectives. When I heard the chairman of the committee earlier in the debate today, I didn't get the impression that she supported this. And in a rather furious response in the VG a few days after the survey in Today's Business, she rejects it and says that it is contrary to the Soria Moria declaration to cut welfare arrangements. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e674	Much of the reason for this skin debate, I believe, is that many define the concept of «cutting into possible welfare schemes» as an opinion that is about this government planning in total to use less on weak groups than what we are doing today. We have absolutely no ambitions about that. We're going to increase the use of resources towards this group. In parallel with this work, we are also going to see if there are any of the arrangements we have today, which are either not to be continued in the form they have today or are not to be continued at all. The sum of a growth in effort plus a redistribution of effort can improve efforts in relation to the ambitious goals we have. This is a work in which the Storting will also be involved, because it will be an essential part of the review related to the paper on work, welfare and inclusion. It will be presented in the autumn of 2006 – in parallel with the draft national budget for 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e683	In the election campaign, central labour party politicians claimed that the Co-operation Government had cut the disability pension at the time of the introduction of temporary unpaid pay. The Prime Minister claimed this in the last TV debate before the elections. On the Labour Party's website, the current social minister says that the government parties – i.e. Bondevik II – together with the Progress Party have been agreed that those who receive temporary unpaid pay will now only receive 66 pst. of permanent social benefits. I repeat: of lasting welfare. And so does Karita Beckemelme in a newspaper post. The Bondevik Government and the Social Security Act have always said and calculated that temporary unpaid pay is 66 pst. of the highest pensionable income in the last year or of an average of the last three years. This is also the basis for next year's budget. In the autumn, a bill was presented stating that temporary disability benefit is no worse than permanent disability pension. Who's right? Has the Minister for Labour and Inclusion turned this case around?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e694	In my opinion, the description of how the social benefits are calculated in the case of TUS, a time-limited unpaid pay, which the representative Woie Duesund has now given, is – without prejudice to the fact that it has gone fast – a correct description. So one starts with 66 pst. of previous wages and salaries. What has been the debate since we introduced the time-limited unpaid pay – which I and the representative Woie Duesund have had many opportunities to discuss earlier – is the fact that not all, but many who are on temporary unpaid pay come out worse than those who go on unpaid pay. The point of this debate has been to say that when the entry criterion for zero emptying is the same as the entry criterion for temporary unpaid pay, it is wrong that the two schemes, which have the same entry criterion, have different ways of calculating social benefits. Now it's like this. As Mr Duesund has said, we have not tabled proposals to amend this in the draft budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e705	In the election campaign, the government was clearly opposed to targeting social arrangements. The word was almost ‘disgusting’. And the cited writings from Soria Moria say nothing about targeting social arrangements. On the other hand, about a few weeks ago, the Council of State said that he intended to cut rather than target, for targeting is a principle he does not believe in. Does the Council of State think that it is better to cut the whole scheme instead of targeting more in relation to the ambitious goals that he outlined in one of the previous answers he had here?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e712	What is the main point on my part and on the part of the Government is not, in itself, the targeting of the Bondevik government as a new practice in Norwegian welfare policy, but the need test. It was the measurement of the dignity of entering into the arrangement. One classic example in this way is the tomb stand, where it used to be so that everyone had access to burial aid. Then they got the situation that it was only the poorest, the homeless, who were to be defined as worthy enough to get help. And that's this mentality, this lua in the hand mentality, which the need test represents in many ways, which is the problem. So the problem is of course also that when such changes happen like the one that happened in the Bondevik II administration, it creates a situation where it is very difficult to manage to reintroduce the arrangements, because it costs so much money. But this is one of the things we are now looking at in the message I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e719	On 23 November it was stated in the evening post that the Riksrevision came with strong criticism of the social security system, as it turned out that there were a number of survivors who had not been paid the pension they were legally entitled to. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council of State ensure that the Rikstrygdeverket carries out a review of the benefits of survivors' pensioners who may have received incorrect benefits in relation to statutory rights and ensure that all of these receive a refund of the krone they may not have received?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e726	When a department or government gets a report from the Riksrevision, it's not that we sit down and assess whether we're going to follow up the report. Then the system is so that we follow up the report. You don't even have to let your office know. It's a natural consequence when you get a report from the Rikstrøgdeverket. So far, I have only given support to the fact that we are now reviewing the Riksrøgdeverket's report on the Riksrøgdeverket and that we are going to follow up the instructions we have received there. What that means by consequences in relation to post-payment, payment, etc., we get back to once we have completed the obligations we have received from the Riksaudition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e733	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e737	Economics is an important condition for a safe and good old age. Today's pensioners have, through a long life, contributed to building the welfare society that many today enjoy. When people's rights were established, the pensioners were promised two thirds of their salary in retirement. We know that under-regulation of the basic amount over many years has led to a slowdown, and that many minimum pensioners have slowed down financially. I can give one example: I was in Levanger in the North Trøndelag this weekend, and like most people, they were also in Levanger occupied with Christmas preparations and buying Christmas presents. Then there came an old lady away to me who was the minimum pensioner, and said, "I am afraid of Christmas." Then I say, are you afraid of Christmas? Why are you freaking out at Christmas? Yes, she said, I have four grandchildren, and I don't understand my poor advice. How can I afford to buy Christmas gifts for my grandchildren? It has been a persistent problem for me for many years, and I feel in many ways like a bad grandmother, who can't give my grandchildren a nice and decent Christmas press. Every year I've had my own home-grown socks. There are probably also several minimum pensioners who feel that way. The pension of a minimum pensioner is gross slightly above NOK 9000. Because you're going to buy food, you're going to buy clothes, and you're going to have a social life. And not least, many of them are also dependent on drugs. We know – we get reports of it – that many people don't go to the pharmacy to get the drugs, simply because they can't afford a taxi or any other shit to get to the pharmacy to get their hurt drugs needed. I would like to have the recipe from the governing government on how to manage to make a good economy and a worthwhile life for 9 000 gross a month. The party of progress has been fully committed since 1989 in order for married and cohabiting pensioners to have their own full pension. That is why the Progress Party is proud to have a rapprochement plan negotiated with the previous government, from 25 p.m. to 15 p.m. for married and cohabiting pensioners for a three-year period. Unfortunately, it looks like it's just the Progress Party that wants to keep going down. In our alternative state budget, we encouraged that the curtailment should be further escalated by 5 pst. We have also increased the minimum pension by NOK 5000. I think it is a pity that the previous government parties could not join the Advance Party on this promise when together we have managed to negotiate a good escalation plan. I'm waiting anxiously for the Council of State's plan for pensions to spring. I'm anxious to wait for what he will do to get a decent and dignified pension system for those who have the least. I am happy to look at those measures, whether you get a further phasing-out plan for married and cohabiting pensioners, or whether there will be enough message with talk and little real policy content? I also want to follow up on what was in the evening post on 23 November 2005. As you know, the National Auditor came across a crass criticism that several survivors have not been paid the pension they are legally entitled to. From the majority of the parties, it is suggested that the social security system should have procedures to capture this. But this case and the National Audit Office's report show completely that you do not have the necessary instruments to ensure quality. A lot of minimum pensioners are hit hard, and it's also said that a lot of people have fallen out of the social security system. This confirms that you don't have a proper system. I am convinced that the Government, as the Council of State said, will work to see what measures can be implemented in relation to what the Riksrevision has pointed out. But I could have thought of a much more offensive attitude from the Council of State and from the majority parties in this Chamber. They could have given out a message to the survivors who have not been paid the rightful pension, that we will clean this up, we will make sure you get compensation, heads for heads.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e756	Working for all is a primary objective of the government's economic policy. Despite the fact that the Norwegian economy is in good condition, it is approx. 85 000 people either unemployed or on measures. The government expects an employment growth of 22 000 people in 2006. Many unemployed people will thus come to work. For those who are unemployed for shorter or longer periods, the daily allowance is to provide food on the table. This benefit does not, to put it mildly, provide the basis for the large outflows. Unemployment is thus not just a burden on the individual by losing the job, the status and the social community that comes with a job. It's also going to be a very noticeable economic burden. From 2003 onwards, the burden on the unemployed was increased by the removal of holiday pay for the unemployed. This cut in benefits was marketed by the previous government parties as an incentive for the unemployed to get into work. For the most unfortunate, this incentive has cost about NOK 20 000. The lots that make up the bulk of the day have been against this cut all the time. In the election campaign we promised that we would reverse this. It is therefore very gratifying that in the first state budget of the new government we are being proposed to reintroduce the holiday supplement for the unemployed, so that the benefits start from 1 July 2006. This is a handshake for the too many unemployed and their families who will be noticed when the scheme is fully reintroduced. Permitting legislation is a safe replay in budget debates here in the house. The employer's period of compulsory pay and the length of the leave period are very important factors in choosing between cancellations or leave. In the draft budget of the Bondevik II government, it was proposed to go back to the statutory daily allowance period of 26 weeks and the employer’s ten-day period. In our new government's proposal, the daily allowance period is proposed to be extended to 34 weeks, while the employer's period is still set to 10 weeks. I record signals from the social partners that it is positive that the daily allowance period is set at 34 and not 26 weeks. But many are concerned about how the 10-day payroll period will work. In the committee position, the majority have therefore asked the Government to look at different aspects of the law on permitting, in cooperation with the social partners. It is important that we have rules in this area that promote employment and that are to live with for businesses and workers. The pay-guarantee scheme shall ensure that workers in firms who are bankrupt are paid the wages they claim, irrespective of the ability of the bankruptcy to pay. In the draft budget of the Bondevik II government, a reduction of 46.7 million was proposed in this scheme. NOK 2006 and with full annual impact it would be saved in SEK 93.4 million. kr. This representative is in no way opposed to savings in public expenditure. But when savings come as a result of unsocial cuts in schemes that benefit ordinary workers, I say stop. The majority of the Committee does so. We're going to approach the intrusions, just like the government. The previous government parties present these restrictions as simplifications, which will result in faster procedure. It appears that for these batches it is more important to reject applications for benefits from the scheme more quickly than to achieve the objective of the scheme, to keep ordinary workers as harmless as possible in the event of the bankruptcy of the employer. In Chapter 2543 Vocational rehabilitation benefits are increased by DKK 10 per child allowance per year. Day per day a child. This is an important part of the extended poverty package of the Government, costing almost 150 million. kr. I'm glad that this government is giving priority to raising child supplements. This is fully in line with the Government's intention to have a special focus on children when anti-poverty measures are designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e779	Throughout the election campaign, there was a lot of focus on school and care for the elderly. In addition, the debate continued to address the problem of poverty. The parties seem to agree that an important tool against poverty is to get people to work. At the same time, this becomes a little bit too simple. There are many reasons why people see themselves as poor, and there are many reasons why you are out of work. Despite promises made in the election campaign, the government has not provided a budget that gives optimism to those who find it most difficult. These include: a little strange to witness that holiday pay for the unemployed has not been included in the budget for 2006, other than half of holiday pay only in 2007. This was a cut that was characterized by very strong order layers, especially from the Workers' Party. It is natural to believe that all the unemployed who witnessed the Workers' Party's characteristics of just this cut, had expected to find this in place in its entirety. So word and action are not in jeopardy. Even families with young children living on one income have had a real lifting break. For these, the government has reduced their total income by cutting the cash support and increasing the food tax. In addition, the Government has reduced the tax on those with the lowest income by about $600, an amount that is totally consumed by increased food expenditure — together with no increase for those with the lowest income. This is miles from the government party that promised in the election campaign to those who have the least. Many minimum-pensioners are so desperate for economics that they have to have help from the social office every month. They have to apply to the House Bank for housing support and use the social office as a supplement. As a minimum-pension pensioner, you have no opportunity to go out of work to remedy the situation you have experienced. Drug users are definitely a group of people living under very poor conditions. These have no opportunity to do anything about their poverty through work, at least not at first. These must first be given a properly adapted offer, consisting of detoxification and organization in what we call a 'normal life'. Only then can this group be helped out of poverty. As is the situation for drug users, it is well known to most that there is a lack of treatment facilities and follow-up in psychiatry. Very many of those suffering from mental illness will never be able to earn their own money until an appropriate and well-developed offer is put in place. In Rome's magazine on December 1st this year we could read about an alarming increase in the number of new people with mental disorders who are unable to do their job. According to the article, mental illness is the cause of almost every five sick messages and every four disability pensions. This is a very serious and worrying development. In addition to what applies to these groups I have now outlined, there are additional causes of poverty, such as gambling addiction, irresponsible use of money, replay of past lifestyles, life crimes and illness. It is vital to be able to combat poverty first to solve the problem that leads to very many not being able to work before you can talk about offering a job. In the government budget, only a fraction of the challenges facing the fight against poverty have been addressed, and I am afraid that very few of those who believed in the promises of the new government for a promise can say that they are winners in this budget. The government itself is incessant in pointing out that municipalities have been given an economic boost and that it is expected that this money, as well as strengthening school and care, will be used to combat poverty. Yes, the government parties even write in their comments that better finances in municipalities will give more opportunities to live a worthwhile life on low incomes. As I read these comments, I understand that the government is now overturning the poverty problem into the municipalities and leaving it up to them if anything is done or not. The road from election vows to redemption is miles long. In the Progress Party, we have the basic principle that the level of taxation must be reduced in order for everyone to be able to live on their own income and that pension benefits must be such that there is no need for special benefits. I note that the government parties and the Progress Party do not share this view.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e805	Securing work for everyone is the best way to build a good society. It is a prerequisite for a good economy for the country and to give each individual a safe life. It's about having a stable income and having a meaningful everyday life. It is therefore essential that the Storting should use many instruments through economic policies and through active labour market policies. It is all about providing a predictable framework for business to ensure that those who are currently excluded from the labour market are helped to get through targeted efforts. We've experienced in recent years that many people who want to work are excluded from the labour market, and many are involuntarily on social security. We also see that many people who want to get work face major obstacles. Then it's our job as elected representatives to ensure a comprehensive policy that creates a more inclusive working life, where everyone who can get the opportunity to participate in the work capacity they have. Many youths today meet closed doors when they want to go to work. That's a lot of reasons. It is partly a matter of having a working life that demands a lot of skills and work experience, but also of those who need extra help and follow-up do not get it. When we see that youth unemployment is greater than the rest of the population, we have to do something. This has been taken seriously by the majority government. The minority writes in their comments that it is by securing businesses more profitable and by expanding access to temporary employment, we will be able to solve this problem. The majority have a slightly different approach. We believe that we need a set of targeted tools to overcome youth unemployment. The young people who have fallen out of work for various reasons are not only affected by the Norwegian economy’s success or by good business. It will only have an effect in the long term. We have to do more. We believe it is about giving all equal opportunities for education, for better follow-up, to make it easier to qualify, to give pupils in a professional field an apprenticeship and to use labour market measures. Increasing the appropriations for Aetat and labour market measures is important in this context. Increasing access to temporary employment, as the minority wants, does not believe that the majority will solve youth unemployment. It is claimed that the threshold will be lowered to the labour market. The majority believe that the opposite will happen, namely that the threshold to be thrown out again will be lower, and that those who initially encounter barriers will be able to face even more difficult and new obstacles. Many young people can become caste balls in and out of work. This is particularly worrying when we know that temporary employment will also have a negative impact on those in the start-up phase, who are going to take up housing loans and have a safe environment around their lives. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government will not allow increased access to temporary employment. It's today's young people who are going to build our society in the future. Then we must have a working life that meets them with open doors, not closed. The majority will, through this budgetary setting, help to open the doors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e820	There are some strange mechanisms in politics. As a rule, it's the largest amount of dollars that will be the least debated. Some of the biggest, if not the biggest, budget chapters in the state budget deal with social security and pensions. The budget chapter dealing with retirement pension is NOK 88 billion. Only the budget line Supplementary pension under this chapter is in excess of 50 billion kroner. We need good, safe and predictable pension schemes, but we also have some challenges in Norway. We go further to school and thus come later to work. We stop working earlier, and we live longer. One does not have to be a professor of social economy to realize that this can be challenging in the future. But that's where it's important to see the context of politics. Our pension system is a big splinter layer, where we set up for each other in different stages of life. The active pay taxes so that we can pay pensions to the pensioners. So if we're to succeed in taking care of this unique system, people have to have work. People have to go to work, get paid, pay taxes to the community, and then the community has to distribute this money again, for example. for pensions. Societal machinery must function if the pension system is to function. Or as Erik Brofoss so aptly said, "We live by each other's work." Therefore, a healthy and inclusive working life is a prerequisite for a sustainable pension system. There's something wrong when 50-year-olds are pushed out of work, and 30-year-olds end up being non-pensioners. It just can't go on like that! We have to think differently. We need to see more in the context of work and retirement in the future. There is therefore a need for this growth to bring about a new and sustainable pension system, which balances the possibilities of early retirement schemes for those who need it and the principle of paying off their jobs. We have just heard that the Progress Party has been talking about how awfully poor today's minimum pension is. Yes, it is not to hide that many minimum pensioners are struggling to get the ends to meet. But if the minimum pension is so bad, it's strange that the Progress Party's policy is to make everyone the minimum pensioner. Both in the Pension Commission and here in Stortinget, it has been the Progress Party's policy, and I have not realized that there are any other policies that apply now. There in the farm it says that the people's money should only give a flat, equal pension to all pensioners, based on the principles of today's minimum pension. It is logically unintelligible that a system that you think is bad and unfair should become the system for all Nordics who become retirement pensioners. Yesterday I discussed the railway with the Progress Party in this Chamber. Then the Progress Party said that the Progress Party's policy was to bet on the railways where it was socio-economically sensible. And then they suggested more than a halving of the appropriations for the NSB. After all, it would have happened to rail traffic and it would have been completely logically incomprehensible in relation to the reasoning. Today, there is a pension. The minimum pension is bad, but they're going to make even more of the minimum pensioners. Now logic and politics are two different directions, but sometimes there is an advantage to a certain context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e835	Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e838	I have to say I have been concerned about how the working life is going to develop. From the point of view of the Bondevik Government, with a labour policy with flexibility in favour of employers at the expense of employees' rights, there was cause for concern. The Labour Party wants a safe working life that includes everyone. To succeed, we need to be able to have at least two thoughts in our head at the same time: to ensure a good working life and to provide active authorities working to get people out of work. The labour rights we have today have been fought by the workers for a long time. For example, in the early 1990s, the fight can be mentioned in order to get eight hours of work. In 2006, following the proposal of the Bondevik II Government, with the support of the Advance Party, it was to be opened for 13 hours of work without overpayment, by agreement between the employee and the employer. In my view, this would result in more unemployed, more unemployed and more sick people, which in turn would lead to pressure in this budget. It is therefore important to see that everything is related to everything. Fortunately, the government of Stoltenberg has clearly stated that this should be reversed, with the result that workers avoid this becoming their reality from 1 January. A work life with a focus on safe, permanent jobs and good rights will increase well-being and work effort, which in turn provides a good basis for people to work until their retirement age. The establishment of the new seat on employment and welfare now allows for a comprehensive and coordinated offer to those who have not found a place on the labour market. Here, the Government’s implementation of targeted actions against young people, the long-term unemployed, the elderly and the disabled is an important and good initiative. The objective of helping self-help, social protection and the inclusion of people with difficulty in entering the labour market needs to be achieved. Government proposal to strengthen labour market measures by 217 million. kr shows a proper bet. The government's job is to build a good society for everyone in this country. Then everyone has to be equal, both in the workplace and outside the workplace. We need to create a safe working life that gives meaning, well-being and a sense of work. Then people can serve themselves for the rest of their lives and the ability to stand longer in the workplace. Then I would say that the government has actually succeeded with its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e849	I must first be allowed to respond to the flaming article Sverre Myrli had about the Smallest Pensioners of the Advance Party. It is totally wrong what he says. We've said we're going to have equal pension for everyone. But we've also said that we're going to have the same pension as you can live on, not be hungry as with the pension that the representative Sverre Myrli has presented to Stortinget as a minimum pension – that is, a pension that's at the level that you have to go to the social office to get help. We're going to have an equal pension for everyone, but it's also going to be a pension that everyone can live on. That's really not why I took the floor. I took the floor to highlight the debate which took place here in connection with the change of lines between Lise Christoffersen and Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, and I wonder if the wear and tear of the Government has already become so great that there is a need to change the government fraction and the parliamentary basis of this government. Even today in the Chamber, we received in Karin Andersen's and the Council of State's response to Martin Engeset's insight into this, in the opinions of the Council of State and the debate in the media afterwards – a harsh and aggressive response from the head of the Labour and Social Committee. S.B.’s representatives have shown their hatred of the United States in front of the Stortinget, where they have demonstrated against their own Government. Yes, even the hatred against the United States has been so strong on the SV's side that in the financial situation, resistance to American cars has been expressed. That is quite well done! But, of course, you have to give up your hatred when you don't get a say in the government for that. It has also made a difference for the Center Party by the fact that Lars Peder Breck has slaughtered the government's tax policy in various media. What I could imagine, was getting a little explanation from Lise Christoffersen about whether the need to change representatives in the Government is now acute, so that we have to do it as soon as possible, or whether there is a long-term strategy to facilitate the entry of the Christian People's Party into the Government, either by replacing the Center Party or by replacing SV. It would have been very good to get such a statement, while I think it is amazing that the Workers' Party uses energy to go to attack, among other things. at the heart of the Christian People’s Party – the cash support. But it may also be that if you get rid of SV in the government, there is room to continue the cash support – so it would be very good to be told whether there is a long-term strategy or an urgent need to replace it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e862	Every welfare society has a basic security at the bottom. For the Left, it is important that this basic security represents predictability and dignity. The aim of the left is to introduce a civil salary. The introduction of a universal system in the welfare state in the form of a citizen’s wage as a guaranteed minimum income is the liberal answer to the question of the further development of the welfare state. The proposal to introduce pay for citizens or other forms of guaranteed minimum income is not a new date. Care pay as a mother's wage was proposed by Katti Anker Møller as early as 1919. A principle of civic pay is the natural consequence of the idea of universality, security for individual, increased justice, adaptation to individual needs, predictability and simplicity. Citizen pay could also meet another objective: flexibility and freedom of choice for individuals. At the same time, it is clear that a civil salary must be introduced without violating the principles of welfare state performance, adapted to the economic performance of society. It's worth making an effort. The principle must be that all citizens must be guaranteed a minimum income. Citizen pay must be coordinated with student loans and scholarships, or benefits, to support the unemployed who otherwise would not be entitled to a daily allowance because they have not had a job or because they are long-term unemployed. A number of current social security schemes and public transfers need to be considered in terms of financing a civil salary. People who are on a voluntary basis outside the labour market, for example: take education, or are absent for other reasons, shall also be entitled to a civil salary. Many fall outside, or choose to stand outside the general economy, but still contribute to the community through social, cultural, hard work or other activities. The left has great hopes for the NAV reform. For us, it represents a first step towards a citizen's salary. The current state of the Norwegian economy is a situation that should strengthen the possibilities for a good and principled debate on welfare systems. The strong economy gives us a historic opportunity to carry out reforms. The left will never approach any of these big questions on the basis of attitudes such as that some are unaccompanied and slab bags. Unfortunately, both systems and debate are often characterised by stigmatisation. This is a big problem in itself. We who are social liberals believe that man is creative, fantastic, and that man's positive qualities are triggered, among other things. to allow freedom. This is much more forward-looking than populist statements that social clients have to stand up ‘in the morning’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e875	In the line change, which often goes a little fast, I was going to give incorrect information. The number of unemployed immigrants is 10 pst. • unemployment is no more than 10 times higher than among other unemployed in Norway. I want to fix this. The debate has so far been calm, and it is most likely that this government has not come up with new measures to get more people to work, but – and fortunately for that – has continued all the good measures Bondevik II had introduced or planned to introduce. Otherwise, I look forward to the response of the representative Lise Christoffersen to the Progress Party on the urgent need to change the government coalition. As a health education, I'm pretty good at first aid, but I don't think the patient looks sick enough, so far. But I understand that someone has a short breath. Finally, the Council of State underlined in its contribution the need to prevent poverty, and here he receives full support from the Christian People's Party. I hope that with the prevention of poverty, there will be a great deal of space in the news of globalization that is now coming, of work and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e886	I can assure the Storting and the opposition that there are no patients in this room or in the government quarter, or that someone has a short breath. On the contrary, there is an overall government that is behind the scheme that we are going to adopt today, and that is behind the Soria Moria Declaration, which is the basis on which these three parties have said that they will rule for four years. So the government has said that it invites other parties to an open debate on good solutions – and it does. I record that the Progress Party, which is now out of all power and is going to be it for four years, is quite hopeless and therefore runs its affairs quite loud. But I am amazed when I hear the Progress Party in the debate on poverty. Because only in this budget has the Progress Party cut poverty measures, cut labour market measures that would get people to work, and they have cut educational support for single dependants. Then the Progress Party is occupied with the minimum pensioners – and there are several of us – saying that it is tough, and that many of them have to go to the social office. Yeah, that's right. This should not be the case in the future. This is why the Government has said that it should review the relationship between different social security and social security benefits in the future, so that the overall level of social security benefits is good. But I want to remind you that if you're a social welfare beneficiary, then the level of benefit for two people is 6,880 kroner per month. It's actually significantly lower, so there's a lot of people in this society who live on very low performances over a long time. And when the representative, Kjønaas Kjos, calls for us to have a minimum pension in this country that means you don't need the Housing Bank housing support schemes for the elderly, I wonder what kind of minimum pension it really is the Progress Party dreams of. It's simply unrealistic! The bank's housing support system is a good system, it is, to say the word, to be honest, no disgraceful system that someone needs to be ashamed of. It is a completely necessary scheme that pensioners today enjoy very well, as pensioners and others with low incomes need, and that this government intends to take care of. And then finally, the relationship between local economy and living with low income. If you are a child of a family with a low income, it is even more important for you that the school is good, that it can afford modern equipment — for example: computer equipment that one does not have at home — can afford to attend cultural events, can afford to visit businesses, can afford to have a school leisure system that one can attend with the others, and can afford to have cultural and leisure activities in which one can participate without having to pick up the wallet each time. This means that these children are included, and therefore a good community economy is very central to the families who live with poor advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e898	I got a challenge that, of course, I have to answer. Kenneth Svendsen asked me to explain whether we in the Workers' Party have an urgent need to change state councils, and in extending it, if we have an urgent need to get rid of SV in government. Of course we don't. The reason I said what I said was the opposite of a more positive approach: I'm actually a little happy in the Christian People's Party, because I've previously had the pleasure of cooperating with both the Christian People's Party and SV in a common fraction of our local municipal government in the Drammen. There we have had the pleasure of having a Vice-President of the Christian People's Party with whom we worked closely. I have also had the pleasure of working together on the current political majority platform in the Municipalities' Central Association, which consists of the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. What we're inviting is closer cooperation here in the main hall. When Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund asks for possible government tabs, we probably don't have any authority to start redistributing them again, and we don't want to do that either. But when I have said that I am a little happy in the Christian People's Party, I must also be allowed to say that I have always been very happy in SV, which I have had the pleasure of working with for all the 30 years I have been politically active. That's why I don't think we have any "respiratory distress". I don't think there's any contradictions in how we think either, because what we're looking for is more flexibility, and more flexibility we get by solving rigorous schemes, which we have a little bit too many of today. If you don't fit into a paragraph, maybe you don't fit into any things, and that's what we want to solve for. To take an example, it's not certain that everyone who has a pelvic solution needs a pressure-relieving mattress, but as it is today, you might get that mattress or nothing. The rather strict way to think about it, we want to resolve it, we want to better adapt it to the needs of the individual. The proof that here we really think very much like in the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party I have in an article from Dagbladet in May 2002, when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen first launched the proposal on welfare contracts. Then there were some quick comments. One came from the Center Party. Former Minister of Social Affairs Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said: ‘At last, the Labour Party shows the will for creativity.’ So said a spokesman for the Velferdsalliansen: ‘For the first time in a long time, Ap has made proposals that raise the expectations of the party’s social policy.’ And then Karin Andersen said: ‘I have a very strong sense of the idea of binding social contracts.’ She felt that the proposal could ‘make it easier to cooperate with the Workers' Party on social policy’. The evidence is now here, at the beginning of its first speed, in the budget we are to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e922	I just felt the need to link a few comments to this with minimum pensioners, which have been an important topic in the debate. I'm just recording that it seems like the difference between a minimum pension that's to live on, and a minimum pension that's to starve at, is 5000 kroner a year. At least then we have the estimate of the challenge, based on the reality description given by the representative Svendsen. But what is more important to be told is that, as not least the representatives of the Progress Party have produced the situation today, one is left with the impression that almost all the minimum pensioners need social assistance to get around the clock. I don't think it's an impression that's going to hang from this debate again. In 2004, there were 26,000 minimum pensioners in Norway, of whom a total of 4000 received social assistance at one time or another during the year. So it was 212,000 who didn't get social assistance at all. It is important to stress that of these 4,000, not only did pensioners have to have social assistance on a monthly basis to get the economy going, but there were many who had to have it on one or two occasions in connection with a knee, and some of the purpose of social assistance is also to be able to deal with that kind of situation. I'm not going to polemize here, if 4,000 is a lot or a little bit. The ambition must be that people who have the minimum pension need to supplement it with social assistance as much as possible. But trying to create the impression that the everyday life of minimum pensioners in Norway is such that almost everyone has to go and get social assistance is a very wrong description. Of 26,000 in 2004, only 4000 had to have that kind of help in some form.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e927	Unfortunately, it is necessary to go a little further in the debate on welfare schemes and how to finance new efforts to combat poverty and unemployment. The debate has so far not clarified it. The starting point for the debate was the interview mentioned earlier in Today's Business, where the Council of State pointed out in a very commendable and courageous way the dilemma of finding room for new, necessary efforts to help those who are most disadvantaged. The message to the Council of State in this interview was commendably clear. He invited there for a very important and fundamental debate. There is no skin debate, as he himself called it in a later answer, but it is, in fact, a crucial fundamental debate on how to further develop the welfare society in order to meet those who need it most with the best measures. And the answer he gets from the leading representative of his parliamentary basis when he withdraws this debate is the following – Karin Andersen, the head of the Labour and Social Committee, says to the VG: ‘I note that it is neither on the wallpaper nor on the roadmap to remove welfare arrangements.’ ‘Has Hanssen cleared the play internally’, asks VG. And the answer is: "I don't know about this, and none of those I know in the government have heard about this either. Cutting welfare schemes is not included in Soria Moria, not in the SV's programme and as far as I do not know in the Ap's programme either.' No, well, at least I'm glad that it's on the Council of State's work programme, and I'm also glad that the Council of State in its contribution invited the entire Stortinget to join in discussing this important issue. I think that is both reasonable and absolutely necessary in view of the fact that there already appears to be clear signs that the parliamentary basis of the majority government is already crumbling after five to six weeks in the government position. The message to the Council of State was clear, but after this debate, I regret to say that it seems unclear what will happen to policy in the future, because the government's parliamentary basis contributes to bringing up the confusion in the Grand Duchy at an all-necessary level in terms of what is the future course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e944	Kenneth Svendsen said that I was concerned with the "Smallest Pensioners of the People of the Party". No, I'm probably not much more concerned with the minimum pensioners of the Progress Party than with other minimum pensioners, but I'm concerned with all the minimum pensioners. And the best we can do then is put in place a safe and sustainable pension system for the future, so that people have security for future pension payments. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank Svendsen for confirming that what I said about the Progress Party believes that everyone should have a completely equal flat minimum pension paid from the state when a pensioner becomes a pensioner was right. Then we can probably discuss the level of that pension. But if both Kenneth Svendsen, Robert Eriksson and Kari Kjöna's Kjos agree that all the challenges they talked about in their contributions will be covered within a minimum pension, there will at least be no savings in the government's spending on the population's wealth for the years to come. The problem with the Progress Party system would have been that those who have worn and worked for many years had not got any world things left for it. The assistant who has worked for 40 years at the hospital had not received another penny in retirement. The industrial worker who has been with a milling machine for 45 years had not got another penny in retirement. I think it would be a bloody unfair system, and I'm glad that there's little pointing towards the fact that the Storting is going to go into something that's near such a flat, unfair pension system. But it's clearly allowed to disagree. It even makes sense sometimes. Finally, unlike Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, I may not be able to separate from the health service. I have quite a few years in the Sanitation of Homeland Protection, but the competence there is largely limited to breaking bones. But if that competence is sought, I'm prepared to contribute quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e953	Now I have followed the debate, and it is interesting to note that the former government parties are much more concerned with the internal life of the new government than with continuing their own lives as partners. It's interesting to hear that a line of lines is about the relationship between people in the red-green majority, at large and government, and so little about the political alternative to challenge this majority. It does not promise the Storting as an interesting object in observing political development, but it promises us who are going to sit in government for four years and who are going to form the rear troop here from the Storting so that the Government can still sit. It is also the case that I am very pleased that today we are going to adopt a budget which represents significant improvements to the budget presented by Mr Bondevik II. It is probably right, as the Christian People's Party's representative says, that we are continuing arrangements Bondevik II provided, but the important thing is that we are moving on, and that we are pointing out a course that represents a much stronger will for poverty. 500 million. kr is much so – it is more than the entire package of Bondevik II represented, and which he put so much emphasis on in his preparation of the budget. It is also important that we work towards improving arrangements in other areas, which benefit everyone, and perhaps in particular I think the dynamics that now lie in the reforms we are going to undertake are important. Then I think about the NAV reform, then I think about the pension reform, and about the commitment the Council of State has put in that this is going to be the main effort in the future. In other words, we need to be able to ensure that there is an active political dialogue between corruption and government, even if the opposition resigns from the focused debate in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e962	Hanssen State Council was up and said that there is only NOK 5000 that distinguishes between having a bad time and having it good and acceptable as a minimum pensioner, but that's not exactly the starting point. We have said that NOK 5000 will be added to the adjustments in the social security scheme. If you take two pensioners who are cohabitants or spouses, who are the minimum pensioners, the policies of the Progress Party will lead to that family of two getting over NOK 21 000 more. That's almost $2,000 a month. It's something quite different than what the Council of State explained to. So to Myrli: I want to stress that the Advance Party is in favour of a popular pension. It is clear that the representative Myrli reads the position of the Advance Party with one eye and holds his hand for the other eye, and reads every other line, so that he does not get the connection. For what he illustrates is actually what has been the effect of his own policy on the minimum pensioners and the pensions. I also think that the Council of State has been a little offensive when he says that there are 4,000 of the minimum pensioners – he should have no idea if there are many or few – who have to go to social assistance. He says that the goal must be that they must be at least dependent on such solutions. One should expect an offensive state council that would have said that there should not be any need for such solutions at all, but that we should ensure the minimum pensioners a good and worthwhile income that will avoid them having any kind of social assistance. But that's not what the Council of State says. So until Sundsbø said about the happy days of the Center Party, when you had halved the food mom, and you weren't quite so happy now. It is likely that many have experienced that you could be happy as a single person, but not quite as happy as married if you married the wrong person.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e973	I was about to say, talk to you sail. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 681]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e991	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1000	It will be exciting to see if I get any comments about my personal life at the end of the article. But that's not what I'm going to talk about. In Norway, we like to call ourselves a humanitarian power force. We like to say that we are a country that shows neighborliness and closeness in both word and action. But when you look at day-to-day practice, maybe self-esteem is sometimes challenged. Asylum and refugee policy is one of the policy areas where we face many political and moral dilemmas. In January 2004, the Norwegian authorities introduced a new practice in relation to asylum seekers with final rejection. The new practice resulted in final rejection of asylum-seekers from receiving and deprived of all financial support. Unfortunately, this practice has resulted in people landing on the street. The question many have asked is whether in our society it is worth dealing with people like that. The issue we are about to deal with now is how we are going to treat fellow people, people who have not received a residence permit in Norway, people who are staying illegally here and who are therefore going to leave the country. The principle side of the matter is whether, as a society, we have some responsibility for these people, whether or not we have a responsibility to give them an offer. There has been a long debate on the tools needed to meet this particular group. The debate on this has led to a broad majority in the Committee now in favour of establishing a waiting reception. There is a strong cross-political consensus on the need to put in place a waiting reception as soon as possible. Therefore, there has been a broad agreement in this case to give the necessary powers from Stortinget so that the pace of work can be kept up. The majority of the Committee is pleased that the Centre-Left Government is following up the work of the previous government in this matter, a work that started after a Document No. Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs. Document No The 8 proposal came after a heated debate on the consequences of the new practice in relation to asylum seekers with final rejection, a practice where it was up to each municipality to ensure a minimum offer. The establishment of a waiting reception does not release the municipality's obligation to help people in distress, but with a waiting reception the municipalities are given the opportunity to refer people without a legal stay to a place where there is an offer of food and lodging. There is one difference between the proposal of the government of Stoltenberg and that of the government of Bondevik, and that is the name of the offer. The government of Bondevik would call the offer an exit center, while the government of Stoltenberg has gone back to the original name proposal, which was to call it a waiting reception. In addition, the government of Stoltenberg has changed current practices in relation to asylum seekers who are not allowed to stay. No one is thrown out of the original reception until the waiting reception is in place. The majority of the Committee is satisfied with this. By means of the waiting reception, state authorities will have a coherent housing offer for all persons, from seeking asylum to leaving the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1026	It is said that the name is not ashamed of anyone. But if we look at the difference in the names, which implies the change that the new government wants at the exit centre, that is to say, that the name should be changed from the exit centre to the so-called waiting reception – instead of focusing on ‘exit’, we see clearly that this is an obvious signaling, and that SV has come through the Government for what they want, namely a clear liberalisation of immigration policy. It's worth noting, and that's something we're going to work hard against. We hope it's not a reality. The Progress Party has said that we are opposed to this waiting reception or the departure centre. The reason is obvious. This is nothing but an ordinary reception. People can come and go as they themselves wish, and you don't get the control we've requested, which is very important just to avoid illegal immigrants going underground. Because today, it is a problem that, in fact, as many as about 20,000 — a number that has been referred to — are at an unknown address. Then you have to take some grip on it. It is not useful to place these people, who are actually illegal immigrants, in a reception where they can freely come and go as they please. In addition, we believe that it is problematic that by choosing the location that the Government now occupies, i.e. in the municipality of Lier, the Government contributes to further centralisation, the transfer of illegal immigrants to the Oslo area, i.e. to the larger Eastern region, and that is also not desirable, according to the view of the Progress Party. Our solution, and what the Progress Party has been saying all along, is that here we actually have to use other grips. We have to look at what we call closed reception, i.e. reception where you cannot come and go as you please, where you have control of people who have been refused asylum and who are therefore illegally present in the country pending their departure. It is absolutely necessary to avoid what we consider to be a major problem, namely that people go to cover, and thus that we do not have control of the situation. When we have addressed this issue and pointed out that there is actually a need to apply closed receptions here, the only thing we have been able to address in this connection from the Minister of Labour and Inclusion and the other parties is that they have been shown to the law. It has been claimed that there are not least international conventions and agreements that say that this is not possible. Today, I can give you an information. This is actually wrong. We've looked at this in more detail. It is obvious that there are no things in international conventions that mean that we cannot use custody – because that is what we are talking about in this context – as an instrument for staying in the country illegally. We've looked at this in more detail, and we've also asked Storting's investigation section to look at it. It concludes fairly clearly with Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the exception of point (f), which states: ‘legal attack or detention of a person in order to prevent him from entering the country without authorisation or of the person against whom measures are taken for the purpose of issue or extradition.’;» – It is clearly possible to apply closed receptions under the European Convention on Human Rights. That's why my hope is to move on in this debate, to stop using this kind of argument, to go into it in reality and take an honest discussion about closed reception. This is something that actually exists in Denmark. In Denmark closed reception is used. It is fully possible to use closed reception in relation to persons residing illegally in Norway. I hope you are willing to look at an instrument that is absolutely necessary to control illegal immigration to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1046	I will refer you to the statements made by the rapporteur. It is essential, as the representative of the Progress Party also pointed out, that one of the major differences in this case between the Government of Bondevik, which promoted this proposal, and the Government of Stoltenberg II, which is now continuing this, is the choice of the name of the offer. As the representative of the Progress Party was involved, this is not essential. The name ‘exit centre’ originated from a Document No. 8-proposals made by SV, which also contained new, substantial rights for those who are illegally present in Norway. We must note that in the negotiations between the government parties, the Workers' Party has had an impact on the content of the offer, while SV has had an impact on the name. It's a shame, because the name gives a signal about something other than that offer is. Those who are here are waiting for nothing but their own decision to do what they are required to do, namely to leave Norway. They're not waiting for any authority decisions. These are people who have been treated for asylum, who have been refused, who have taken advantage of their appeals, and who are not – and it is important to emphasise – willing to cooperate with the authorities on leaving. This does not include persons who are involuntarily resident in Norway, but those who willingly leave to cooperate to be returned to the country of origin to which they are obliged. We are therefore concerned that a retaining the name ‘exit centre’ gives a clear indication of what this stay is about, namely a reinforced effort to speed up the exit of these persons. I hope that the Council of State can confirm in its statement that there will be an enhanced offer to these people who are going to leave the country. That should be the purpose. I am also a little surprised at the angle the rapporteur chose to use and describe the background to this offer. If we are to have an asylum policy in this country that takes care of those who really need asylum, we must also have a strict policy towards those who do not need it. If not, we won't have the opportunity to help all those who really need our help. I want to fix an obvious incursion in the setting. The note on page 2 from the Right, Christian People’s Party and the Left states that ‘persons residing illegally in Norway shall not be granted rights’. There the word ‘new’ fell before ‘rights’. Then there's a question to the Council of State, which is what kind of name the Council of State will use on this centre. In its remarks, the government parties want the Government to use the concept of ‘wait reception’, but in Roman numerals II, adopted today by the Storing, use a term ‘exit centre’. I expect the Council of State will use the term adopted by the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1063	Persons who have received a final rejection of their application for asylum are obliged to leave the country. The big community expects both foreigners and Nordics to respect and comply with legally adopted decisions. In the foreign field, this is not least important. The institution of asylum is for those in need of protection from persecution and abuse. If the scheme is misused to allow persons without protection, it would threaten the legitimacy of the asylum institution as a whole. For the Christian People's Party, it is an important objective that those in need of a port of refuge should have it in Norway, and then the institution of asylum must be managed in line with the obligations of the UN Convention on Refugees. Despite clear expectations, some refuse to return to their country of origin after a final refusal to apply for asylum, nor can they be forced to return. This is a clear challenge for our society. Norway is a legal country. We are obliged to treat everyone who is here in a decent way and in line with the requirements of human rights. No one's going to starve in Norway. No one had to sleep out. It was just supposed to be missing -- we're one of the richest countries in the world. We must recognise that the practice of disfellowshipping persons with final rejection of the asylum application and referring them to the municipal social service has not worked satisfactorily. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that, in several cases, the municipalities have practiced the provisions of the Social Services Act on the right to emergency aid too strictly. This happened despite the fact that all the letters from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs briefed on how the law was to be understood. This is critical. But when I said that, I have a certain understanding that some municipalities experienced that the situation was difficult. Against this background, it was very gratifying that the government of Bondevik II took the initiative to set up an exit centre where people without legal residence in Norway could have food and shelter. I am pleased that the Stoltenberg administration has maintained the proposal and supplemented it with a right to stay in regular reception until the waiting reception is completed. I know that this means too many. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the offer to continue to stay in reception for persons without a legal stay could lead to a delay in departure for several of these. It's worrying. I would therefore ask the Government to ensure that individuals understand that Norway expects them to respect a refusal and to return home, and that the authorities follow up through concrete measures. The establishment of an exit centre is not intended to grant new rights to persons residing illegally in Norway. The Centre shall have a sobering standard, and the efforts of the authorities to return as much as possible of those residing illegally in Norway must continue with unimpaired strength. For this reason, in the Christian People's Party, we believe that the "outbound centre" is the most correct term for this new establishment, but we note that the Government wants to use the term "outbound reception", and notes that the name is also the only material element on which the Christian People's Party disagrees with the governmental parties in this matter. For the future, the Christian People's Party will deal with the majority's name choices. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the establishment of a waiting reception does not detract from the responsibility of the municipalities to provide emergency assistance to non-residents who are staying illegally in Norway. However, municipalities will be able to refer people from this group to this reception for the future, but they must therefore continue to be obliged to provide assistance in more short-term crisis situations. The Christian People's Party's clear expectation is that the municipalities follow this up. Furthermore, I refer to the vote and recommend the proposal for a resolution which is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1089	Of course, I am pleased that it is now possible for the majority to join the proposals in St.prp. No 80 for 2004–2005 on State waiting receptions. As explained in the proposition, the municipality of Lier has made certain demands for, for example: the issue of sewerage connections in connection with the possible establishment of a centre there. I am obliged to make the Stortinget aware that in a meeting of the planning committee in the municipality last night it was decided to postpone the processing of the Foreign Affairs Directorate's application for a derogation from the requirement for connection to public sewerage. As it now stands, therefore, the need to have this negotiating power reduced already in 2005. However, I would recommend that the Storting adopt what is proposed in the proposal, in order not to exclude the conclusion of binding agreements on investment in relation to the receipt as early as this year. In addition, it will give an important signal to the municipality that the state still wants a waiting reception in the Civil Defence camp in the municipality of Lier. Lier is well suited for the location of waiting receptions, because it is relatively close to Oslo Airport Gardermoen and the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police, which is responsible for transportation. With waiting receptions in place, the state will provide a coherent housing offer to all those who come to Norway to seek asylum, from their arrival in the empire until they leave it after a possible rejection. The establishment of waiting reception will facilitate the situation of the municipality and will clarify the responsibilities and practice of emergency services. We also make it clear that a new phase has begun: the asylum seeker process is over, and he no longer belongs naturally to the ordinary reception system. The waiting accommodation shall have a sufficient standard, not least to motivate a long-term residence. Questions have been asked by the Government that it has chosen to use the term ‘vent reception’ in contrast to the last government term ‘exit centre’. For me, it is important to stress that there is no difference in content. In both cases, there is an open and voluntary provision of housing for people who have lost their housing in ordinary asylum recipients until now following a final rejection of the asylum application. However, the government believes that ‘anticipation’ is more comprehensive as to what the offer is intended to be. I have, of course, recorded the comments of the Committee's members from the Progress Party and the post that was held here in the Chamber now. I register that the Progress Party primarily wants a closed reception for people who are staying illegally in Norway. As I said, the currently established reception will be an open and voluntary accommodation. For me, it is important to stress that it exists per. Today no general basis in Norwegian law to keep people locked up without law and judgment. A closed reception will be a prison-like institution which in that case will require judicial review of each case to determine whether the conditions for imprisonment have been met. I have already informed that it is not the arrangements for the waiting reception, but that the waiting reception should have an access control. Then I register that the representative of the Progress Party here today says that possibly to introduce a law that opens the way for people to be imprisoned, for example. refuses to apply for passports, will be possible. I'll take it with me. I assume that it is possible to read through what the investigation section at Stortinget has prepared. However, I still have to say that at least I have serious doubts about – to put it mildly – whether it is advisable for Norway to consider introducing laws that will allow people to be imprisoned indefinitely because they refuse to apply for a passport. That could be one example. In any case, in my opinion, it is a criminal law culture that we traditionally do not have in Norway. But as I said, I will read what the Advancement Party has done here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1102	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1105	It was interesting to hear that the Council of State does not close the door completely – if I understand him correctly – in relation to closed reception. This is actually something that is practiced in Denmark. As I said in my post, there is nothing in international conventions that stands in the way that we can do the same in Norway. Of course it has to change the law. That's something dictated by the Constitution. You have to have a law shelter if you're going to put people in custody. There is only one amendment to the law on foreigners. My question to the Council of State: Are you now willing to take a closer look at this — assessing closed reception — to prevent illegal immigration into this country and illegal immigrants going underground? To the extent that you think this is actually completely out of date, how can you accept that something like this is happening in Denmark, if there is no room for doing so in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1112	I think it's just as interesting to ask the question back. So the lot of law and justice means e.g. That prisoning people for five, six, seven years because they refuse to apply for passports is in line with what should be a good legal tradition in Norway? I'm not familiar with the fact that there are countries where you have that kind of law consideration, but I guess I think we traditionally don't like to compare ourselves with them. Then I hear that the representative says that there are no international agreements that create problems for us in this way – I allow myself to doubt it – and that there is a similar arrangement in Denmark. What I've said is, I'm going to be open to read what's available about this. Then we'll have to discuss it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1120	In the debate on the closed-ended or open-ended centre, there is reason to stress what the Council of State said in its statement, that although it is possible to change laws in this room, it is such that the punishment you receive must be proportionate to the situation you are in, and the illegality you may have committed. It's quite alarming if the Progress Party thinks otherwise. The offer referred to from Denmark is, of course, a classified offer based on a breach of a number of en route provisions. Then the detention is graduated. But that was not the question. The question is what I had in my post, namely the name. ‘Waiter’ is a misleading name. Those who are here are not waiting for a decision. They are not in a reception situation, but in an exit situation. So both parts of the name are wrong in relation to the offer. My question is: Will the Council of State deal with Decision II of the election, or with the wish of the parties to the government to use a different name?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1127	I had hoped that the representative Höie had forgotten that I had not answered that question, but he did not, so I guess I would have to answer that. The starting point for the name is that I think it's completely possible to find a reason for both names. I feel comfortable with the term «wait reception»; you are waiting to have to leave. It is something other than an ordinary reception of asylum. You could say that it could be called a waitress, and that it could be called an exit center. I note that at least in the form of a note there is a majority in this Chamber who want it to be called a waiting reception. I share that assessment. I think that's a good name for the child. Then I also understood that there is a difference between the comment and the setting. It is clear that, as the Council of State, I will have to deal with the decision of the Storting when it is made. We'll see what kind of decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1136	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1141	It may be instructive to follow debates. Obviously, there have been some mistakes in the committee's work, both here and there. The representative, Höie, straightened up one slip in one remark he's on. I'm fixing up a glitch in II. It is the majority that wants it to be ‘receivable’. I therefore propose that this be done instead of the 'departure centre'. That was the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1146	I don't think that correction is possible. First, all three of the previous government parties are also in the position – there is a Roman number that a single committee outside the Progress Party is behind. The correction I made was in a separate comment in the setting. But we have not received a request from the government parties to change II, which is part of the setting. So I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1151	As you can see, there's a small conference up here. The President would suggest that there are possibilities for correcting the proposal for a decision in line with what Mr Vedum proposed. Those who didn't have to agree to it will well find reason to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1156	Then I must ask that II, which is the committee's position, be promoted as an alternative to the correct position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1161	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1174	The increase shall now amount to a vote on cases No. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1181	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Drafts No. 4 and 5, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party The President first addresses the proposals outside the framework areas. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1219	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify the design and cost of a loan facility for physical training facilities for disabled persons, where the scheme is managed by the Auxiliary Resources Centres. The Government is asked to return to this in the Revised National Budget 2006.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1234	We shall then vote on the vote on the proposal for a decision under the Framework Areas 7 and 15, with the corresponding minority proposals, and we shall start with the Framework Areas 7. There is an aberrant proposal for this area, No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2006 is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjective:CronesCronesExpenditure2540Aids under unemployment for fishermen and fishermen70Aids, estimate appropriations38 000 0002541Day money70Day money, estimate appropriations8 680 000 0002542State guarantee for claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2542)]] The President assumes that the Progress Party wishes to vote against both minority proposals and the vote on the motion for a resolution in both areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1765	Here the President has understood it so that the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left now support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e1778	We've come to area 15. There is also an aberrant proposal for this area, No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2006 is authorised under: Chapter.PostDestination:CronesCronesExpenditure600Ministry of Labour and Inclusion [[(see section 4.4). cap. 642)]] IIMerresomstakterThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in 2006 may: exceed the appropriations below the corresponding deficit revenue. 600 item 1 cap. 3600 item 2ch. 630 item 1 cap. 3630 item 4cap. 630 item 21 cap. 3630 item 2 cap. 640 item 1 cap. 3640 items 1, 6 and 7cap. Item No 642 1 cap. Item Nos 3642, 6 and 7cap. Item No 642, item 21, cap. Item No 3642, 2 IIIRe-disposal mandatesThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in 2006 may: 1. re-dispose up to 10 pst. of the allocation under cap. 634 Labour market measures item 70 Ordinary labour market measures to item 71 Special labour market measures.2. redispose up to 40 million. crowns from cap. 634 Labour market measures Item 71 Special labour market measures Chapter. 630 Aetat item 1 Operating expenditure.3. redispatch between appropriations under Chapters. 604 New labour and welfare management item 21 Special operating expenses, cap. 630 Aetat item 1 Operating costs and cap. 2600 Social security contributions item 1 Operating expenditure. 4. redispatch between appropriations under Chapters. 604 New work and welfare management item 45 Large new acquisitions and maintenance, cap. 630 Aetat post 45 Large new acquisitions and maintenance and cap. 2600 Social security contributions item 45 Large new acquisitions and maintenance.IVPromising powersThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Labour and Social Security in 2006 is able to offer grants in excess of the appropriations allocated, but that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostDescriptionTotal framework634Work market measures70Ordinary labour market measures 432.9 million SEK71Special labour market measures EUR 7176.6 million. kronor VFull power to give up interest-free and non-deductible loans The size agrees that the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion in 2006 may give up interest-free and non-deductible loans granted to labour market measures for persons with disabilities where this is considered necessary to ensure continued operation. VIMinistry of Labour and Inclusion in 2006 the Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion may: exceed the appropriations below the corresponding deficit revenue. 2600 item 1 cap. 5701 items 1, 4, 5 and 6 VIIThe majority agrees that, with effect from 1 January 2006, the following benefits under the Law on Social Security shall constitute*: kronor1a.Grunnstønder for extra costs in case of disability according to § 6-3 of the Act [[lowest rate]] *) The rates below 1, 2 and 4 are the annual amounts of the benefits. 1) Social benefits for the help of the house apply to cases before 1 January 1992. 2) With effect from 1 January 1997, a distinction is made between social benefits for the assistance of the house and benefits for special supervision and care. 3) Applies also to disability caused by occupational injury, cf. Paragraphs 12-18 of the Act. 4) With effect from 1 January 2004, 64 psts are covered. of documented expenditure on child care. The amounts in the table are maximum reimbursement rates. The benefit has been tested on income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e3974	The vote will take place at the end of the debate on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, under the chairmanship of the Committee on the Environment,
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e6000	The President has understood it so that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left subsidiary support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e6109	The progress party has announced that they will vote against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e6130	Here the president has understood that there has been a disagreement between those behind the vote, about what should really be the wording, and there has been a proposal from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left on what you think should be the wording of the vote. Then we have nothing to do but first to take the vote up to voting and then vote over the proposal. Do you agree to proceed like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e6133	Yes, except that it should be SV and not Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e6140	Did the president say that? Then he must be very confused! [[Laughter]] Let's go to voting. So here it is to understand that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party have made it clear that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e6155	The President then takes up the proposal of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, a proposal which is therefore identical to the setting of II, but with the change that it should read ‘wait reception’ instead of ‘exit centre’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-12-08.ana.ud2168e6174	There is no record.
