ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e29	The called alternate of the Troms County, Knut Werner Hansen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e38	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today - and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. - Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected as chairman of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e45	On behalf of the big business representative Heikki Holmås and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on trial operations with passenger train traffic on the Alnaban.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e50	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e71	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen Council Per-Kristian Fossstatsrådet Torild Skogsholm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e90	I have a question for the Foreign Minister about Iraq. It is clear that the Kurds and the Shia Muslims, in particular, have used the election and the ballots to rid themselves of decades of oppression. The question is what will happen now, what the majority will be used for. The problem in Iraq is that there are few civil structures. They were crushed under Saddam Hussein. The only thing that exists is probably the mosques, which were well organized, and still is, and the question is whether more religious and fundamentalist forces can now take over and use the majority to create a new constitution that can lay the foundation for the repression of minorities in the country. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether the U.D. has analysed whether it is possible for Norway and other countries now, after the elections, to step in with more efforts and help to build up civil institutions and organisations, so that a more normal system can be created, which can lead Iraq forward against more democracy and, not least, the protection of minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e99	I agree with Thorbjørn Jagland that this election meant that the majority of the Shia and Kurds have now taken part in the elections in such a way that they have taken back power they should have. Here also lies some of the conflict; the suns had to give up the monopoly of power they have had so far. The elections that were, have been historic, in line with the political process that the UN Security Council has brought up. I would like to stress that the Government has laid the foundations of its policy that it is important to support the political process that the United Nations has set up, and my impression may be that there has not been as much understanding of this as I would have liked it to be. Now, however, we have a choice that is historic, which is important, and the question is what we can do in the political process further. I think we should get the final results on the table before giving a final analysis of that issue, but I would like to remind you that support for Iraq in the period 2003-2006 amounts to 550 million. kr. We spent $14 million. To assist in the organisation of the elections, it should provide us with opportunities to move closer to the political process, if it is to be desired in Norway. I see Thorbjørn Jagland's question as a wish that Norway engages more in Iraq than we have done so far, and I fully agree that it is important that the institution now becomes such that it does not marginalise the former rulers, but tries to strike a balance so that minorities too are well taken care of. Here I think some of the challenge lies. My answer is that it is a little early to give the answer to that question, but I think the question itself is extremely important, and we must, when the election results are available, be able to come back with new proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e108	I thank you for the answer, it was positive. I don't want to draw the parallel too far, but we have to remember what happened in Iran when we had the social revolution there in 1979, where a small minority was behind a coup that turned the country into a theocratic dictatorship. I do not think that will happen in Iraq, but there is a danger that there too will be a religious institution that will be able to suppress minorities and thus lay the foundations for new conflicts. The best counterpoint to this is getting normal civil institutions, parties, trade unions and all of this that belong to a democracy, and it's very important that we look at the possibility of being able to support. I know the security situation makes it difficult, but I'm glad that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have an eye on this and see if it's possible to go in here with other countries, because something has happened historically. We need to put all the discussion about the war behind us, at least on this point, and rather look at what we can now contribute to the democratic process in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e113	I think it's clear that the security situation is still going to be difficult. It is therefore important that we take a clear distance from the use of violence that we have seen increasingly in Iraq. Not least now that the Iraqi people have expressed what they want, it must be even clearer that what we see now is an attack on the will of the people. I absolutely agree that there may be a danger that the institution will not come out as we wish. But I think it's hard to say what power conditions are like before we see the outcome of the election. This includes, among other things: several Shia parties that have made choices, and the outcome we do not yet know. But that this is going to be a constitution that takes care of all the groups, so that it becomes a real distribution of power, I think it's very important, so that we don't have any new problems in Iraq now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e120	There will be follow-up questions - Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e123	The situation in Iraq is difficult even after the elections, and it is very important that it does not develop a fundamental religious system in Iraq. One of the best antidotes for this development will be to remove the symbol of what many fundamentalist circles see as the big problem, the military presence of the United States in Iraq. Then it might be interesting to ask the Foreign Minister if he shares the view that it can strengthen the fundamentalist, religious forces that the United States is present for a long time, and how he assesses the political situation in Iraq after the elections. Does he evaluate it so that it will now be possible to withdraw the United States more quickly from Iraq, and if so, when does the Foreign Minister assess this as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e128	Following the political process as drawn up by the Security Council is, of course, the very best means of gaining full Iraqi control in one’s own country, i.e. that the stabilising strengths present are extracted. The sooner you get the political process going, the faster it will go. It has always been the purpose of the government's policy. That's why, after the war was over, we went in and assisted the Iraqi authorities, among other things. with the engineers we sent down, as well as the assistance I gave in reply to Thorbjørn Jagland. The problem here has been that there has been little interest on the part of the SV in particular in this side of our Iraq policy. It has been largely about commenting on American politics. If the question from Karin Andersen now implies that you agree that the government here has followed the right solution, I think SV is also on the right track. But the SV's problem has been that you have always looked back and not forward in the Iraq question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e136	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e139	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: Right-wing leader Erna Solberg stated in yesterday's tabloid that the Sem-Declaration will certainly apply to this government even after the elections. Then, of course, I am a little surprised that the Right at all creates a new batch program, especially because we have read in the newspaper that the Right should also go in the next period to reduce the car charges. However, in the Sem-Declaration, the government only calls for a provincial neutral conversion of the car charges, which will, of course, mean that there will not be a reduction in car charges at all. Then my question becomes to the Minister of Finance and the Right-Man Per-Kristian Foss: What will he do with the sky-high car charges after the election, if he is allowed to continue as Minister of Finance? It is sometimes a little difficult to understand what the Right really thinks about car charges, and I could imagine that the Minister of Finance made it clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e146	It is difficult for me to explain what happens to the Right Programme at the national meeting in May, if you ask for it. However, it is clear that the Right Programme, as adopted, will form the basis for Right participation in future government cooperation. Of course, the main principles of the Sem Declaration will continue to apply to a government based on the same batches, but new tasks are not mentioned in the Sem Declaration, and the Government has presented a series of big business messages with forward-looking tasks. I mention, since the question concerned the economic area here, the tax communication, which requires further relief, especially in wealth taxes and marginal taxes, in order to remove the sharing model. We have also provided other communications that point to economic challenges in particular in the field of school and education. And then time will show how far you reach in the individual areas over a coming four-year period. But I am pleased to hear a question asked in a way that requires this government to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e153	I do well to remind the Minister of Finance that the wording of the Right is identical also in the current period, and it is established that the Norwegian car tax is among the highest in the world. The ambition to reduce these seems to be significantly reduced in this government. On a question from the representative, Mr Hagesett, on the need for EU harmonisation - the EU is planning to convert and reduce car charges - the Minister of Finance almost rejected the need for similar reductions in Norway. It cannot, as I see it, be interpreted differently than that the Minister of Finance has no ambition either to implement the Sem Declaration in terms of a profit-neutral conversion of car charges, or to contribute to a reduction in car charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e166	There are two crazy premises in the question. One is the reference to the EU. It is not correct that the EU plans to reduce or convert car charges. I was as late as last week in meeting with the Commissioner responsible for taxes and taxes. On the other hand, the EU has pointed out a case against Denmark, which may have EEA implications, is a charge for the use of a car from another country. It is not a question of entering into the overall level of car charges in a country. The second crazy premise is that I have excluded doing something with car charges. From an environmental point of view, there are significant challenges in being able to change car charges in a way that is environmentally sound but does not, at the same time, open up to cheating, in that sense, under the name of the environment. Here we are facing some technical challenges and some economic challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e173	There will be three follow-up questions - first Gjermund Hagesets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e176	For every second the Minister of Finance talks, the government collects NOK 1665 in car-related charges. For every minute that goes by, the state requires $100,000, and for every week, $1 billion. On an annual basis, the state collects more than 50 billion kroner in car-related taxes! Due to this huge tax evasion of Norwegian drivers, Norway currently has an old car park. Our car park is more important, and it is more dangerous than the car parks in Europe otherwise. Every day, many of their children drive to kindergartens and school in traffic-hazardous cars because the level of the charge means they can't afford traffic-proof cars. My question to the Minister of Finance is, is it not reasonable then to lower car charges, especially the one-time charge, so that people can afford more traffic-proof and more environmentally friendly cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e183	There are interesting numbers the representative mentions, and I am pleased that the Progress Party has voted for everything. In a budgetary settlement in the United Kingdom, the Progress Party has agreed that such charges will apply in Norway this year. Nevertheless, the new car sales keep putting new records away, so that both with children and without children can transport themselves – and their children – in ever newer cars. And if we also keep the speed limit, I'll say this happens in a reasonably safe way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e188	Suffering from the answer to the question of car charges might not have been the most obvious, it is interesting that the Minister of Finance states that the Right goes to the elections on the Right's programme. If the Right left left the simple fact behind for all the parties, maybe we could have a simpler debate on some of the issues we're facing when it comes to the election. The problem is that the right seems to be making completely different demands for lots other than what they make up. It is not only the car charges that are interesting as to what can be the government's policy after the election. We are also concerned about knowing whether it is the Right Programme that is the basis for the tax bill in the next period, or whether there is a negotiated platform before the election. Is it the promises of the Christian People's Party to the children's families that are now to be fulfilled also from the Right - and has the Right the seven billion on the table? Will an agreement be negotiated before the elections, or will each of the parties be allowed to vote on their own programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e195	In the President's opinion, you slip a little far away from the main question here, but the Council of State's task is to answer-- if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e198	I thank you for this very much interest in the Right Program, but I understand that we are not entirely alone in aiming for coalitions and at the same time go to the elections on our own program. I understand that has become a trend gradually, and it is not so unusual in Norwegian history. And then the time will tell you what strength the voters give the parties in the election. It is clear that this government has committed itself to implementing a tax reform, where at least 10 billion kroner are left before we can meet the promises of conversion to a fairer tax system with emphasis on marginal tax relief, sharing model and reduction in property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e206	Heidi Sørensen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e209	We share this government's view that public transport in big cities is the most important challenge. However, it should not be in the way of a provincial neutral conversion of car charges. Now we have a situation in Norway where the most environmentally efficient, the most environmentally friendly cars, are not being traded. There's demand for them, people want to buy them, but they're not being traded, because Norway doesn't get priority from the car companies. An environmentally friendly conversion of the car charge, so that we prioritise the cars that pollute the least, could have made Norway a country that was involved and pushed forward a move towards a more environmentally friendly technology. As the Sem Declaration also states that such a conversion is desired, it is well, as the election approaches, that it is time to ask whether the Government will take the initiative in such a conversion. I am sure that we could jointly overcome the technical and environmental challenges it brings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e216	This question was raised by the Government before the Stortinget in its last year’s budget proposal on the basis of a very comprehensive investigation into car charges. There was no concrete proposal from SV on that occasion, but if SV has solved all the technological challenges by distinguishing between good and bad cars when they are bought new, and ensuring that they remain so in their lifetime, I will look with interest at it. But no such proposal has yet been made. We have, as we know, provided full exemption from both purchase fees and other charges for electric cars, without - to put it that way - having become a violent turnover for that reason. Other non-emission cars have also received such tax reliefs, but not hybrid cars, for example. very easily switch over to the normal engine with the resulting emissions. This is an example of difficult borders, how a purchase fee, i.e. a one-off fee, could vary with the use of the car.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e223	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e226	I also have a question for Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss. The right has now presented a programme in which they want a new DKK 23 billion in tax relief for those who have the most. Most of this world is not free, the exception may be air and love. This means that the voters have a right to know who will pay for these tax credits. If one sees what the Right has done in this period, there is well reason to assume that this will mean increased excess in the sick, multiple cuts in the local economy, the removal of the maximum price in the kindergartens or more cuts for the unemployed and the social security, as has been done in this period - or perhaps it will be the removal of the trade-union deduction or other socially justified deductions, which Right has, of course, been addressed in the tax reform. What the voters have to know is how to finance these 23 billion dollars. What we've seen in this period is that the tax reliefs that have mainly taken those who have the most have been paid by the insured, by the unemployed, through cuts in welfare schemes, for which the Right has gone in the rush. The right-hand side requires other parties to say what they mean. Then you also have to say to the right of the picker where you want to cut the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e235	I was hurt for a moment to think that it was the representative of Stoltenberg who was standing on the platform, but I understand that the rhetoric -- to those who have the most from before -- is now practiced as part of common efforts. The main tax reliefs of the 23 billion DKK that the Government has given in this period, or that we have failed to absorb so that they have remained either in businesses or in individual households, are linked to the work of strengthening both the well-being and the growth capacity of the economy - both parts have succeeded. For each krona given in tax relief, well-being has increased by $2.50. So the welfare effort is much stronger than it has been in the past, and it is much stronger than the tax relief effort. At the same time, the figures, which came as late as today, show that this government has really succeeded in growth in employment and in the economy, more than anyone could expect. The latest employment figures show further growth upwards, and we have hardly experienced such a high level of employment as now. Still more industries report good times, all arrows pointing up. In this way, we have succeeded in stimulating the economy through a moderate investment in tax relief. And we'll do that in the next period if we get a warrant for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e242	It is not possible to fail to answer this question with this kind of explanation. During this period, major cuts have been made in different areas, particularly for the unemployed, the insured and, for example, the unemployed. the school leisure system - many different public schemes. My question is, what does the Right say to the voters in the next period? The areas I referred to in my first question are those in which the Right in its programme during this period has proposed cut. So let's do that. increased excesses: the right-wing government has in every proposal for a State budget proposed new self-proprietary increases. Now you want to attack the maximum price in kindergarten, where we have the biggest bet ever. The next question is: do the voters have a right to know where to cut these 23 billion dollars - or does that mean that the money will come out of nothing? We know with certainty that there is nothing in this world that is free, and at least not tax relief, for tax reliefs have to be paid crowns for crowns by some. The right has to say to the voters: yes, we take the money from the insured, as we have suggested in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e249	No, the money is not taken from nothing. It is only SV's alternative state budget that operates with - as Djupedal so illustratively expressed in a TV show recently: our alternative state budget is just an illustration. That's not how we operate on budgets. The government's plan is to continue the kindergarten development. Once kindergarten development has reached full demand coverage, the maximum price will also enter into stage 2, as foreseen by the agreement with Stortinget’s batches. We will continue to invest in health, in school and in kindergartens -- as I mentioned -- which are important welfare initiatives, and which are combined with tax reliefs. We've shown that it's possible to use tax relief as a contribution to economic growth, and then, to use a simple picture, it gets bigger, it gets more to share and more to well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e258	There will be three follow-up questions - first Audun Bjørlo Lightbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e261	I have also read the Right Program Draft and got with me the promise of 23 billion new tax credits. After the members of the Government have spoken together at Sem this weekend, the Prime Minister has moved out and said that the tax bill for the next period will be NOK 10 billion. It's a big crack, isn't it? I think there are many who will be interested in being informed by the Minister of Finance about how this gap is to be understood. Is it so that this is the Christian People's Party's policy, or is this a sort of fiscal common programme that has come out of the weekend's negotiations? Is it so that the Minister of Finance has negotiated the 13 billion extra billion of Jan Tore Sanners during the weekend, or is it such that what fiscal policy a new bourgeois government will pursue is completely blue?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e266	I liked the expression "in the blue" very much. Both questions have been answered earlier. The tax notice from the Government has concretely stated itself to just as much as DKK 10 billion as the tax reform requires. Then, of course, a government policy after the elections, a government based on the three current parties, will depend on the party's strength relationship in terms of how far you get in additional tax reliefs. But I think this huge interest in tax relief from SV is interesting. In any case, SV will go against everything that is proposed and at the same time propose some tax incentives. In particular, it will be necessary for SV when the main impact on the alternative budget, cut in cash support, is lost. It will be interesting to see what it will replace with in future alternative budgets - or illustrations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e274	Hill-Marta Solberg - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e277	When the Right presented their proposal for the program, they were crystal clear and concrete at one point, namely, how much would be given in tax bills in the next period - NOK 23 billion. Per-Christian Foss answers in the Storting here today that in the period that has passed, there has been a strong growth in welfare. It is suggested that there will be welfare efforts in the next period. My questions are: Has the Minister of Finance and his department calculated - as they do in relation to the programmes of other parties - what is the price tag on the welfare increases that the Right rate on the next period? Is it possible to tell you this today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e284	It is not a natural task for the Ministry of Finance to make any calculations of the programmes of the various parties. We have not done that of what comes as leaks from the Workers' Party's programme, nor of what came today, about violent investments in gas technology beyond what the Government has done. But I hope there will be room for significantly greater welfare efforts than only the funds that the Workers' Party will have by going against the Government's proposals for tax relief. This period of time that we have left behind has shown that it is possible to combine significant tax relief with even greater welfare efforts. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e289	Gjermund Hageseter - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e292	The progress is not alarmed by 23 billion dollars in tax bills, on the contrary, we could think significantly more than that. The reason why we're busy is that good framework conditions are important. We must have internationally competitive framework conditions, and then we must also reduce the level of taxation. In this way, the basis for economic growth can be laid, and one can have more and safer jobs in Norway. This gives you a larger tax base, and the cookie to distribute will be larger. This may be called dynamic effects, and it was also Right-handed before they entered the government position. My question is: Shouldn't the Right be more good at detecting these dynamic effects, that one depends on getting the tax level down to lay the foundation for good economic growth and getting more and secure jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e301	This reasoning is very correct, but there is one important element missing, perhaps the most important one: the amount of tax relief and spending on the State budget must be balanced against a rule of action that is important in order to provide a basis for monetary policy facilitation. For a normal family today, it has meant a lot that we've got interest down, and that business has a dollar price that it's possible to live with. It's an important element. If you use too much, you promise too much, you do too much, you don't get this effect. That's what we've got, unlike some other countries that haven't succeeded in getting the dollar, or the exchange rate, subdued, inflation down or, and not least, unemployment down and employment up. So it's important to balance points in the economy, not just to dose by heart or by batch program.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e306	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e309	I have a question for the Minister of Finance, but start by noting that the Right is not willing to tell us how much we are going to bet on school, care for the elderly and health in the next period. Now we experience every day that government members boast of how well everything is going - everything is going so much better. It's true that we have recovery in the economy. It's true that we have a low interest rate and that many people have gotten better. But while the Minister of Finance has been in his department, more than 90 000 people in this country have been pushed out of the ordinary labour market - that is the sum of the more unemployed, the more unemployed and the more unemployed today. This is a development that, in my view, clearly goes in the wrong direction. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Is he satisfied with this development? What's his comment on the 90 000 who don't enjoy -- but which on the contrary is outside -- the evolution we're now seeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e316	First, a brief comment on what is called the observation. No, it would not be right to stand here and give budget figures for 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 in important areas. But if the representative of Solberg believes that the Workers' Party's forthcoming programme provides a basis for this, I look forward to a joint tripartite calculation of what will be invested in four future budgets. So the question of the number of people leaving the labour market because of social security and other conditions. I fully agree that this is too big a number. Therefore, reforms have also been implemented by the Government and proposed reforms aimed at limiting the exit from the labour market, for example. through changes to the disability insurance scheme. It is too early to establish how strongly they have worked, but everything suggests that the number of people who are now on temporary disability benefit is more likely to return to work. Among these - less than 90 000, which was the figure mentioned by the representative - there is a large group that is also in the process of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. It's not right to say it's negative -- it's a group that's going back to the labour market, hopefully. When the representative Solberg was Minister for Social Affairs, it was also about 13 000 on disability insurance. It's a lower number than what we now have. But even then, we wouldn't use it as an example of a failed policy in itself. That's the result of new jobs and getting unemployment down, which really counts. However, I note that the Labour Party also supports reforms within pension systems and disability benefit systems aimed at keeping more active in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e325	It's not possible for the government to avoid this reality, even though these figures are not on the government's show list. It's a reality that's clearly part of the government's responsibility. It is my opinion that, among other things, the strong decline in the priorities of the labour market policy under way by the current Government has helped to contribute to exclusion, and has also contributed to the increase in disparities. In a society where a lot of people get better, it's extra bad to be the ones outside. Then it is extra bad to be unemployed and have also experienced that the unemployment allowance has been tightened up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e330	There is nothing to suggest that the organisation of labour market measures has now contributed to a larger proportion of the long-term unemployed or of people who do not come back to work at all. In the past, I have understood on the Workers' Party that the workline, as it was then called, consisted in creating both new jobs and increasing employment. Now more new jobs are created than before, the number of bankruptcies is falling, innovation is increasing, and employment is increasing in parallel with falling unemployment. I may think that political debates should focus on what is wrong. It's going well here! Perhaps the Workers' Party will cost itself a little bit of praise for it and rather concentrate on the political disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e338	There will be two follow-up questions - first Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e341	I agree with the Minister of Finance that much is going well, but there is also a good deal that falls outside the distribution that is now going on. Let us take the unemployed, on whom the Minister of Finance was in. I will mention a number of points: cuts in the sick pay scheme, cuts in the daily allowance scheme, removal of the holiday allowance for the unemployed - the social benefit period has fallen from three to two years, the unemployment requirement has increased from 40 to 50 p.m., the minimum income requirement has increased, the number of waiting days has increased, etc. These are points that affect those who are unemployed. I have to ask whether this is a correct and good distribution policy? There's someone who's being pushed even further out. And then my question is to the Minister of Finance: Has the welfare increased for those who fall out of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e348	The number of people available is at full speed down. The change in the leave measures has, among other things: This means that fewer people spend time on leave and that they get more incentives to apply for a job. Labour market measures have been put in place to focus more on job-seeker courses and the like in order to qualify people to get out of line more quickly. It's important. The important thing is that the unemployment rate goes down, that fewer people are unemployed, and that the opportunity to get a new job is better than before. Otherwise, I would like to mention that the development of purchasing power for all groups, regardless of income, has increased significantly in recent years as a combination of moderate wage settlement, low interest rates and tax relief. It's part of a picture, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e355	Karin Andersen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e358	That's enough for the average to be good, but some people get worse. The score is: Is the government busy with these? When the Minister of Finance talks about getting more incentives to get a job, it essentially involves cutting benefits and well-being for those who are ill and for those who do not have a job. The government's policy to date has been that those with work and high wages get more, while cutting benefits and offering for those who are sick and without work. Then the question is, is it reasonable to ask to the Right, such as: Does Right believe that unemployment and disability come from having too good benefits and for good welfare when you are in that situation, or does Right believe that it is with those who have bad health and are without work, as it is with other people, that getting good help, inspiration and the ability to manage is the best help you can get?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e367	The causes of illness and disability are complex. I believe that reasons lie both in the workplace itself and in the individual. The ability to get help and support to get out of the situation is quite important. Now we see that some of the measures in the cooperation agreement on an inclusive working life work. We also see that when the opportunities to get from temporary disability benefit and to work increase - in whole or in part - there are several people who take advantage of this. And it has to be that going from social security to work actually also brings economic benefits. There must be a difference between being insured and being able to get into work - with your own income.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e374	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e377	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The reward scheme for better public transport has been the flagship of the Government’s collective effort. For the current year, the government has set at 115 million. kr in this pot. The five largest cities in Norway have applied together for about half of them. 260 million. kr. It's about securing the urban nucleus of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger and Kristiansand. It says itself that very few of these are going to get what they've asked for. The applications look very good. We would definitely have gotten a better public transport if they had gotten a pass on their applications. Does the Council of State think that the applications that have now arrived illustrate that the allocation of this pot is far too small?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e384	The purpose of the reward scheme is to motivate a transition from using a private car to a collective journey in large cities where environmental problems are greatest. The fact that there are so many applications to make use of this scheme is a signal to me that the scheme is good, and that there is a motivation around the big cities to bet on public transport. At the same time, you always want to apply for more funds than you know you can get. It's a reality. Most of us have been in situations where you have expressed greater desires than you knew it would be possible to get through. In this sense, it is not unreasonable that applications are only at a level that is twice as high. I guess we've been through other processes, where the gap has been a lot bigger. I think it is important to stress that this scheme has never been intended to replace the responsibility of each county to finance the operation - in so far as it does not go around the business economy - of public transport. The scheme is an addition. The fact that it's a big wish to be included, I take as a positive sign. I'm going to go into this candidate mass and really look at where the interest lies, and at the possibilities here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e395	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Finance, as this is definitely about funding. Comparing cities in Norway with cities in Europe that have really invested in public transport, it can be seen that the proportion of operating grants is much lower in cities in Norway than in cities with which it is natural to compare. In cities with success, the operating grant represents an average of approx. 50 pst. of the ticket. Oslo is the nearest city in Norway, with a little over 30 pst. Bergen and Trondheim are down to 9 and 7 pst, respectively. We see that there is a desire to bet collectively in the big cities, but there is a need to get appropriations for this. Does the Minister of Finance agree that if we are to have a profitable, efficient and socially sensible transport of traffic in cities, we need to increase public transport appropriations in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e404	This is a question to the Minister of Transport - under her responsibility - but my answer will be the same as her: Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e410	There will be three follow-up questions--first Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e413	The pot of money to be used as carrots for a better collective offering is 115 million. kr - the question is to the Minister for Transport - and Oslo alone has applied for 110 million. of these. We understand that we are not going to get all the money we are looking for, but when the Minister of Transport talks about the municipalities and the counties having to take more responsibility - and have a responsibility - for this, I just want to say that the Municipality of Oslo spends almost $1 billion a year on public transport. Then they're going to be 20-30 million. kr that we're going to get from this collective pot, not very much to talk about. And I think it's too easy to dismiss my question about more money with that a little bit is much better than nothing -- especially since this pot is kind of the spearhead in what the government calls its collective effort. Then my question is: does the council see that the pot of collective offerings is too small to really be able to monge, especially in a city like Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e422	It's almost absurd to discuss the amount of the reward scheme, which is 115 million. kr, when we are talking in practice about all the billions used for public transport in this country. This is just a very small part, which - it has always been meant to be - would help to make the big cities have an extra motivation to bet on public transport. I have seen that there is a great deal of interest in this scheme. I think that's very gratifying. The fact that we have this pot, which is 115 million. kr, which means that the major cities say they are interested in making an effort for public transport. Many billions are spent on public transport here in the country. I would like to stress that the state has made an extraordinary effort in relation to the metropolitan city of Oslo - to the T-banning, to collective infrastructure, where the state strictly has no responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e431	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e434	After these two answers, one could wonder if it was the Council itself who had taken the initiative in this scheme, because it might seem that it disqualifies its own system, that the scheme is not as important as we have been given the impression before. It also appears in the puzzled priority of this field for the current year. The Labour Party, together with the other party, increases the rights of this year to make the big cities, especially, pay more attention to public transport, which is something that needs to be done. Now there's a number of people here in Stortinget have been behind a sharp rise from next year, so the government gets drag help in that way. I just want an assurance that the Council of State is still behind this, that she thinks that the applications that came in this year are good and give reason to spend more money, and that she will follow up with more money from next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e441	We've actually made demands on the distribution of these funds. This shall not be a general grant. In fact, I am proud to sit in a government that has got through the reward scheme. I do not remember that the Workers' Party has ever had such a reward scheme. So to refer to another experience you can't do. I am very pleased that there is so much attention to this scheme. There are a wide range of good projects that can be co-financed through it. It is important that any big city that receives these funds - it is not obvious that all applicants should get - refer to both ability, will and results. If we are to succeed in achieving the objectives of moving from a private car to a public transport service, we really need to see if there is a willingness and ability to implement policies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e448	Sive Jensen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e451	There is no doubt that this government is engaged in public transport as opposed to road investment, where we see that the demand is increasing despite the fact that the car charges have never been higher. The Minister for Transport has previously stated that the time for major road development is over, while the Right notes in its programmes that there is a need to significantly increase road investment. My question to the Minister of Transport is whether something new came out of the last few days' meetings at Sem regarding the Government's further plans for transport policy. Is it true that the Left is the one that has been implemented here, too, in terms of not investing enough in road investment? Or has the Right got a significant degree of penetration, which of course would delight a FrP heart?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e458	As you know, we have entered into a budgetary settlement for the current year where there is considerable room for the use of funds. We've also found rooms to bet on public transport. I'm very pleased with that. When I have said that the time has come to invest only in road investment to solve the challenges facing big cities, I stand by it. We have challenges in this city, including: every winter we have days when the air quality in some parts of the city is so poor that some groups in society are recommended to stay indoors. That's a situation we can't have. We have to find solutions to that. One solution could be to find new technologies in the automotive sector. But we also need to find solutions in terms of public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e465	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e468	My question is to the Minister of Finance. The centre lot enters in order to introduce compulsory occupational pension for all from 2006 onwards. That's going to be the majority for. But this gives an extra charge of NOK 4-5-6 billion in pension contributions for those companies that have not yet managed to implement this. We believe that we cannot send such a bill on such short notice to these companies. There are very many small, very small enterprises that have not been able to participate in a occupational pension scheme for economic reasons. Many of them will not have the economy to put in place such a scheme. Many people just don't want to go on. This is true of the majority of enterprises in Norway. Many are newly established, newly started, and most of the companies that are not in the scheme today are in the districts. State participation in a transitional period - e.g. 10 years - must therefore be assessed in the opinion of the Centre Party. What can the Government offer of state participation in order to avoid the loss of many jobs through such a reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e478	The government has provided a pension message that allows for minimum requirements to be imposed on the occupational pension scheme for those who do not already have it, with effect from the coming year. The centre party's connection to this is interesting, but hardly decisive. The minimum requirements to be laid down are not specified. We have said that we will start discussions with the social partners, because it is on the basis of last year's pay statement that such a question has been raised. Neither on the one hand nor on the other hand in this pay bill has so far been any concrete explanation of what the minimum requirements should be, rather the question of compensation. But it is clear that when the parties say they are prepared to enter and pay for an arrangement, it is natural that the primary responsibility will also lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e485	The minimum requirements can be discussed, giving an additional premium of NOK 4-5-6 billion to the small enterprises. This is still very vague on the part of the Government, and nothing is said about a concrete participation. But business needs answers. In the case of the AFP scheme, the State contribution is approximately 40 pst. of the total costs. It's being provided today for $1 billion for 17 000 AFPs. It amounts to approximately NOK 60000 per year. person. What the Centre Party now suggests is a grant from the State to the premium payment for a transitional period of NOK 2 000 to NOK 3 000 per year. person. AFP stimulates early departure. A defined contribution pension stimulates longer work. And that's what was supposed to be: we don't want to make the pie that's going to be divided, less, because there's fewer who's taking part in the world of work, we want to make it bigger. What the centre party is now asking for is simply to help the government to ensure that the most vulnerable jobs are not lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e494	The representative Lund asks me now to take the position of a wholesale treatment that has not yet been completed. The government has presented a policy outline for a pension reform. It is an important element in it that it stimulates people to stay longer in work than they do today. We have also stated that the AFP scheme needs to be reviewed, as announced, in 2007, so savings will not be made immediately by the state in this area, but perhaps gradually. Both that and the design of minimum occupational pension requirements require negotiations with the social partners - at least conversations with them - before making concrete proposals for the Storting. I do not want to take a stand here and now for conversations that have not been completed, hardly enough started, nor for a big message that Stortinget has not given up yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e499	There will be follow-up questions - Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e502	I have to say that I find it difficult if a business party is going to go beyond fully recognising that there is going to be a difficult situation for some small businesses during a transitional period on the issue of compulsory occupational retirement provision. Dealing with this issue should be important and necessary for all of us. In addition to the small businesses, we also have approx. 170 000 sea-going traders in this country. The government says in the pension message that it will assess the situation for this group. However, they too may face a difficult situation related to the issue of compulsory pension saving. And the question is, are we really going to deal with a long-term pension reform during the spring without the Government being willing to enter into a discussion about the situation of these groups and clarify their relationship with the pension issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e511	It is true that payment for an occupational pension that has not been paid so far represents an economic challenge for businesses. But their organisations have asked for such mandatory arrangements to be put in place. It's not right that it's just in a transitional phase it represents a challenge. It represents a challenge in all years, because it has to be paid in all years. The scale of the challenge, i.e. what the minimum requirements will be, has not yet been invited to adopt, but has been invited to take the position of two supplementary pension models in addition to the public interest. That choice has not yet been made, and I will not prejudge neither the treatment of it by the Storting, nor the concreteisation of the minimum minimum level of occupational pension, if that is the model you want, before the Stortinge has dealt with it, and, not least, before we have had conversations with the parties who have requested such arrangements - after the Stortinge treatment. I hope you have some sense that the rules of the game must be followed in a democracy, and that you cannot anticipate conclusions until you start talking to the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e516	Let's move on to the next and last main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e519	I have a question for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and it concerns the presence in the northern regions. Today we experience that a coastguard vessel is being added to the berth. At the same time, we feel that Norway's involvement abroad is increasing. What does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do to ensure that our presence and our assertion of sovereignty in the northern regions are preserved?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e526	There is no reason to doubt that Norway is asserting its sovereignty in the northern regions, nor are there any concrete examples that show that we do not. Norway has a political and physical presence in the northern regions that fully respects the interests we have. There are some challenges that lie in the northern regions that are different in character from what the Bastisen now mentions. We're going to deal with this in the Northern Region Communication that will be presented to Stortinget this spring, but I don't think there's any basis for asking the question the way it was asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e531	I pointed out in my question a concrete example: we are adding a coastguard vessel to the dock. Is that not a concrete example? It's a strange way Right-wing policies when they claim sovereignty by adding boats to berths. We have no other way to assert our sovereignty than to fly over the area, and it's Coast Guard who does it, with Orion planes. We have, of course, F-16, the defense plane, which can fly over the area, but we don't claim sovereignty by that. We have a fishing fleet that travels in the area, and I ask again, what does the U.D. do to assert the sovereignty of the northern regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e536	I think this question testifies to a certain mix of terms here. Norwegian sovereignty is no doubt that it is in the area, no one raises doubt about it. We're here where we're supposed to be. And it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, along with the Government as a whole, that's responsible for making sure we're there. What lies behind Bastisen's question is that Norwegian sovereignty is challenged in some ways here. Of course, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e542	Then the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e548	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Britt Hildeng to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for Defence who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Defence, the question is moved and answered before question 13, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 6, from the representative of May Britt Vihov to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who has been away. Question 14, from Gunnar Halvorsen's representative to the Minister for Defence, will be raised by Rita Tveiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e576	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e583	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The County Office of Sørøya, Finnmark, has for a long time been staffed by one police officer. In the course of his leave, the chief of police in West Finland had to ask 3 civilian men to move out and do police work in connection with housekeeping. Does the Council of State consider this to be a sound practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e597	The chief of police in West Finnmark has had the aim of manning Hasvik Länsmann's office with two police posts and half an office position. The police district has had recruitment problems, including at the Hasvik County Council, where one police post has been uninvited for the last one and a half years. The size of the staff at the office naturally indicates that it is not possible to establish a back-up service at any time. With regard to the incident referred to here, it can be stated that the police officer at the Hasvik County Office did not complete a vacation, but was not available for police missions this night. He/she took part in the subsequent investigation. The police operating centre in Hammerfest perceived the contents of the emergency messages that were called from South Island, which were very serious and with an acute need for rapid intervention. In the context of the staffing of the Hasvik Länsmannskontoret this night, it was decided to request assistance from civil personnel resident at the location of the incident. Norwegian jurisdiction allows the police in an emergency situation to request assistance from civilians. With the situation that had arisen on South Island, and based on the seriousness of the situation, I believe that the police in this case showed the ability to judge correctly. However, I would like to stress that, on a general basis, a practice in which private individuals intervene and carry out police work is not desirable, as an approach. Finally, it can be mentioned that as early as November 2004, the West-Finnmark police chief decided to solve the manning problem in Hasvik by voluntary ordering. As of February 2005, Hasvik lensmannskontoret will be staffed with an additional police officer. This will increase the provision of police services to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e612	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That's all right. As a follow-up to the episode referred to here, police officer Arild Aaserød went out in West Finland police district and suggested that he could go in for an arrangement where he trained ordinary people in the municipality, in Hasvik, who could act as a sort of backup police in a crisis situation. It used the word civil protection, without the police chief mentioning the word civil protection. This created some uplifting both locally in the municipality and in police circles around Finnmark. Such a mechanism would require a high level of political approval. Does the Council of State think that this can be a solution, to train civilians to enter if crises arise? Can one imagine solving the police authority crisis that is in many small coastal communities, in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e621	The answer is no. What is good news, in addition to what I had in the main response, is that the police district reports that in an ordinary application process for the vacancy in Hasvik, there are now applicants for the job, and that the process of securing the job beyond the voluntary order is in progress, but not completed. I do not believe that the rapporteur or some local politicians have raised the issue of civil protection. I don't see it this way, based on what I've examined. What the police chief might have thought, is that we have a police reserve, and could it be used? I don't want to rely on that. I want to rely on regular staffing and recruitment measures. I'm glad it's now applicants. But because West-Finnmark has had this situation, my State Secretary on a planned journey will take a careful look at the situation in the district. West Finland is one of the police districts in Norway, and we also have some in South Norway, where you do not always get to recruit qualified applicants. And then we're going to get close to it and see how wise we can get to change those conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e628	The last thing the council says, I'm very happy, because I think it's absolutely necessary to look at the situation in Hasvik, in Loppa and some other places. I know that the order is in place, and that there is a better coverage today than it was before Christmas. I hope that you can also look at how to solve the situation for the municipality of Loppa, where there is the same situation today. I would like to send the advice that a particular focus is on an increasing drug and drug problem in coastal communities. There's been little of that in the past, but now you can see that it's ever increasing. It creates great despair and concern among parents who have contacted me and say, "What are we doing?" We see that there are challenges here, and we have no one to go to. Then I say good luck on the trip to West Finland, and take this with you on the youth issue in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e637	If my memory is correct and I'm fairly informed, I think the West-Finland police district got a significant share of the extra resources allocated at the turn of the year. Then, in addition, what the representative has mentioned, is that there are places in Norway that do not basically follow a geographical logic, because we have a similar situation in parts of Rogaland that we have in West Finland, which is special in that way that we lack police personnel. Then we have to go into it closely, and that's what I suggest we do, in addition to the excellent job that the police do, to find solutions. I also agree with the representative's view that having a good relationship between police and parents, senior and local authorities to prevent drugs and crime is very important. All those places in Norway where we get to that cooperation, it means a difference. I understand that this is now reported in all Norwegian municipalities, and I believe that the prescription that the representative addresses is the good prescription. It is a Norwegian prescription, and we must at least contribute to the presence of the police. That's what the representative's business is here, and I share that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e646	Question 3 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e653	I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: «I St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004 Culture for learning recommended to the Church, Education and Research Committee that the Ministry of Education and Research should assess the development of national tests in close dialogue with parent, teacher and student organisations. According to the organisations, the Ministry has not initiated such cooperation. What is the reason why the Ministry has not included users to a greater extent in this work, and what will the Council of State do further?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e662	In 2002, the size of the population unanimously agreed to introduce national tests at four stages of initial training. The purpose of the tests is to help teachers to provide each student with better training and to help authorities put in place proper measures if conditions are identified requiring specific measures at local or national level. Since 2002, extensive work has been carried out to ensure the highest quality of the tests: the Ministry has commissioned the development of national tests for the best professional environments in the country. The mission was given until full implementation in spring 2005. The Education Directorate will then have the professional responsibility to develop the tests further. The selected professional communities have developed the tests in cooperation with reference groups consisting of experienced teachers, and they have also received feedback from professional consultants and consultants in the Directorate of Education. Samples are piloted, i.e. a representative number of schools and students have completed pilot tests. The professional environment has then adjusted the tests in the light of the results of the schools. In addition, the Education Directorate, in its work on the year’s samples, dealt with the experience, analyses and studies related to the national samples in 2004. Since last year, a number of evaluations have generally been carried out involving both professional settings and users. This has contributed to improvements to the tests. In addition, a comprehensive material has been developed to provide teachers with better guidance and support for their text and assessment skills. Feedback suggests that teachers see this as instructive and useful both for training and for assessment. In addition, extensive information and guidance work has been carried out for schools, teachers and homes, including a brochure sent to schools for home communication as ‘sampling mail’. The brochure provides information on national samples and the school port.no. In particular, with regard to contact with the organisations, I would like to mention the following: in the context of the development of the school port.no and the national tests, a reference group has been set up, among others. The Education Association, the Student Organisation and the Parental Committee of Primary School are represented. The reference group had two meetings in the spring of 2004 in connection with the development of the year’s tests. In addition, as part of the implementation of the Knowledge Commitment, a separate national contact group has been set up. The teacher’s organisations, the Student Organisation and the Parent’s Committee for Primary Education are both represented. These include: the national quality assessment system has been discussed. So far, there have been three meetings in this group. The Education Directorate has had several meetings with the Education Association in 2004 and has also briefed on collections of trustees on the national samples. In addition, the Education Directorate presented the school port.no and the national tests at a conference chaired by the Parental Committee for Primary School in the autumn of 2004. No later than 11 January of this year, there was a meeting between the Education Directorate and the Student Organisation, where the national tests were discussed. Arrangements were made here for contact and dialogue on further work on the tests. In addition, several meetings were held as part of the ministry's ongoing contact with the organisations. National tests have also been affected and discussed at these meetings. As a result of experience and input from, among others: the organisations and assessments carried out both in the ministry and in the directorate, a number of improvement actions related to the tests have been carried out in 2005. Examples of such measures are changes at the time of the test, difficulty in carrying out the tests, simplification of the external assessment arrangements, improved teacher training and improved guidance and information material. Similar work will be carried out in the development of next year’s tests. This will include, inter alia: a user survey of teachers and principals related to this year’s tests will be carried out and the Directorate-General for Education will start work on evaluating the quality assessment system, where the national tests are an important part. Further improvement measures are also envisaged, such as: a more thorough evaluation of the timing of tests, adaptation to new curricula, the development of several electronic tests, greater coordination with regard to the design of the tests, and the development of a common framework with clearer objectives for the tests. I have today had a meeting with the Education Association and will have a meeting with the Student Organisation later today to discuss future forms of cooperation. These two have recently expressed themselves critical of the quality of the cooperation we have had. With today's meetings, I hope to get concrete information about what these organisations want. I have already received that from the Education Association. I will take the initiative to hold a similar meeting with other organisations in a short time, even if they have not made similar criticisms. You can always ask questions about whether you are doing well enough dialogue or providing enough information when you are in a development phase with a lot of new work. The feedback we get from individual students, teachers and principals does not give a clear picture. Some believe that the information has been exemplary, some think it is too much, and others too little. I believe, however, that there has been a clear willingness of both the Department and the Directorate to follow up the Committee's recommendation on dialogue with important user groups in the work on national tests. That is why there have been several meetings and contacts at several levels, which I believe has also resulted in improved quality of the samples. Finally, I think it is important that the cooperation that is established with, among other things. the teacher organisations, the Local Governments’ Central Association, the Student Organisation and the parents’ organisations, are continued and are still being sought for improved. I'll make sure it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e696	After hearing the answer one understands a little better why it can go as wrong as it has obviously done, because the Council of State talked about information, giving information from the Department, from the Directorate of Education to the users, while users, in this case the students and the teachers' organisations, are engaged in dialogue. There's a very big difference between information and dialogue. What I'm concerned about is the dialogue that should have been in front of the development of the tests, the way they are being conducted, and also what the students have reacted to, namely publication. I am glad that there has been a meeting today with the teacher organisations, as the Council of State says, and that there will also be a meeting with the students later today. That sounds good. But this should have come before these tests, at an earlier point in time. If you had, I think you could have avoided a lot of the trouble and the problems that have arisen. But my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State, based on that dialogue, consider, from the points of view that has emerged through the media, making a statement towards what SV has proposed, not testing the entire population, but drawing out a sample, and thus getting an overview of how the literacy, literacy, math skills are at national level? We'll get the exact same information as if we were testing the entire population.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e705	I would dispute that this has been a contact that has only concerned one-sided information. There have been a lot of meetings. I didn't even have time to mention everything, even I read quite quickly. The last meeting we had with the Student Organisation was on 11 January, and in these reference groups, the contact groups, etc. of course it's something more than one-sided information. However, I note that in particular two of the organisations, the Student Organisation and the Education Association, do not think that the quality of the cooperation has been good enough. They believe that cooperation should possibly have a different character. They have critical views on some aspects of development, implementation, etc. of the samples. I have no intention of disagreeing with anyone on such matters, and I have therefore taken the initiative to clarify what you think can be improved, and how it should be improved. Because even though the representative Rikvam here refers to the media, I have to say that just by reading the media you don't get a clear and unambiguous picture of what are the critical points, and how cooperation could have been improved. But I have taken the initiative today. What I am concerned about then is both the further performance of the tests this year, the evaluation of the test of the year, which will be carried out with their involvement, and the planning of 2006. Although SV has changed their view of the national samples, and now wants a sample survey, which appeared to be about the same. A few years after one unanimously joined the system we have, the majority of the population has not changed their view. I believe it is important for all students to undergo the national tests, because we are concerned with adapted training. Adapted training cannot be provided on the basis of information on an average, as students are different.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e714	The President understands that the theme is engaged. But there's a limited speaking time in the follow-up questions of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e717	I'm just recording what the Council of State framed in its first post, and that was pretty much information. I'm asking for dialogue, and that's what I'm dealing with. It is quite possible that there has been a good dialogue, but there is nothing in the first answer to me that indicates that there has been a good dialogue. That's what I want to challenge the government council. I now perceive that there's a dialogue going on, and I think that's very good. Thus, we might have avoided some of the problems that have arisen. To me, it's pretty clear what students want, and in the media, the students have been quite clear about what their appeal is to the way we do it. Their appeal is that the result is published, that we get a ranking, and that we get A and B schools. That's going to be the consequences of these tests. It was clearly what the students wanted to enter into dialogue with the Council of State on, and they wanted the Council of State to invite them to a dialogue on that very matter. We have a public law, and the moment we collect the kind of data, it's clear that it's going to be published. The challenge then has to be what types of data we are going to collect, and what we want to get centrally. That's our challenge, and that's what we've given the answer to with our proposal for a model, which I had hoped the Council of State would have agreed to discuss, instead of saying that SV has changed its position. That's not right. We haven't changed our position. We've been for the national tests and we've said that we're going in to defend national tests, but we're not going in to test the entire population. It doesn't give us any information that we can't get in any other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e726	I'm sorry, but my clock doesn't actually work. That's why I've been a little in doubt about how long I've been talking, but I'm going to try to keep time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e731	Okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e734	That SV has changed its position, I think it must be quite clear, because SV's leader drove almost the entire previous election campaign, the municipal election campaign, on a school system that provided national tests and much clearer objectives in the curricula, and that a system of national professional and hourly distribution was to be scrapped. When she said explicitly that she thought the system we had now adopted, with the number of national tests, was appropriate. She also believed that it was not possible to hold back information about the results that were available. It is such that the results of national tests are public, just as take-offs and exams are public in Norway. So you could say, is it so dangerous that we should just have a sample survey? No, I don't think so. I believe it is important that all students undergo the tests, so that teachers can provide each student with better training. We have little A and B schools in Norway. But if we have a bad school, it doesn't get any worse because the municipality knows about it. Then the municipality gets a chance to do something about the problems, and that must be the purpose. The rankings that the media make aren't that much to do with. But I actually think they seem somewhat more informed and nuanced and appear less now than before the school door.no was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e746	This is also a question to the Minister of Education about the national tests, but with a different main page related to this. ‘The introduction of mandatory national tests was supported by an overall accumulation in order to improve learning outcomes in Norwegian schools, among others. by means of en-route measurements on the learning outcomes of students at different class stages. The student organisation, individual students and teachers have invited, directly or indirectly, boycott or the delivery of a blank reply. What are the consequences for those who encourage and those who respond to the call?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e755	The purpose of the national tests is to help teachers to give each student better training and to help authorities put in place the right measures. National tests are compulsory and thus part of the contents of the school in line with other contents. The tests are also part of our national quality assessment system, as shown on the schoolport.no website. The school portal provides information on a number of issues at Norwegian schools, such as: resources, student well-being, learning environment, bullying, secondary level implementation, learning outcomes, etc. As pointed out by the representative of Sortevik, actions have been carried out in relation to the implementation of the national samples last week. This concerns both the invitation to boycott, the implementation of boycott and the anonymous publication of samples on the Internet before they were held. The basis for the protests has not been clear in all cases, but it appears, in particular, that the results of the national tests are published and that it can provide the basis for a ranking of schools. To this I would like to point out the following: No returnable results to individual livers are published. Schoolporten.no has defined very strict limits for publishing. The results of the national tests, like take-off and examination characteristics, are public information under the Public Health Act. I also think that transparency is important and correct, among other things. because knowledge and open dialogue are an important prerequisite for improvement. In Norway, this is particularly important because municipalities and counties are responsible for the quality of schools. Without transparency, municipalities have no basis for conducting a qualified debate on the content of their school or for putting in place the necessary measures. I find it difficult to imagine that parental meetings or municipal boards should be imposed on them when, for example, they are bound by professional secrecy. discuss the literacy skills of students at school or in the municipality. The school gate itself does not facilitate ranking. On the contrary, it provides a much more nuanced and complex picture of quality in Norwegian school than has been available in the past. I have repeatedly stressed that simple rankings, taking into account only a small part of what we know about the schools, become meaningless. I also have strong doubts as to whether this is correct, as many claim, that the media now rank schools more and on a thinner basis than they have done before. On the other hand, we have recently heard a lot of positive stories about schools and teachers who, after screening tests, have worked to improve learning outcomes among students, and who have done it. I have also noticed that none of those who are opposed to publication require secrecy of any other information about the schools. With regard to the impact on the activists, I would first like to point out that the vast majority of students, after all, do not act. Even on those samples where the magnitude of the boycott was greatest, carried out, I think now, over 85 pst. by the students. With regard to those who have taken part in the actions, it is my view that this is something that needs to be handled in individual schools and by individual teachers and is specifically assessed on a case-by-case basis in the light of the law and regulations of the school. I have no reason to say, as has been claimed in the media, that employees at school have leaked the samples to the anonymous group who has posted them on the Internet. But what seems clear is that employees at school have also encouraged boikot directly and indirectly. In my opinion, this is problematic. The school involves obligations, both for students and employees. In addition, school staff depend heavily on the trust of society, parents and students. Such trust generally requires that you follow the school’s laws and regulations, and that you can handle silent information. Responses in this area, if any, also need to be addressed in specific cases and by individual schools and municipalities. The views of the national samples are far from as unambiguous as actions of a minority may leave an impression. I therefore hope that the further performance of the tests can be carried out in a manner consistent with the Storting assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e781	I thank you for your answer. National tests are mandatory, as the Council of State said. Students and superiors know that. The regulations of the Training Act on the character of order and behaviour state that an individual should not normally focus on individual actions. But isn't conscious choice of boycott a rather unusual, but clear act that should be shown in characterization of order and behavior? The Council of State also replied, if I remember correctly, that the reaction to participation must be enforced by the individual school, individual teacher, and even assessed in the individual case. It's going to be a form of reaction that cracks in absolutely all directions. The main impression is that it is not so dangerous and that the boycotting of a national test, which is to be part of education for students and part of the job of improving the national education system, does not have practical consequences. It's not that dangerous. It's going to be a strange learning and assignment signal for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e790	Since this is an ordinary part of the school, compulsory, and can be equated with other content, I have also stressed that the basis on which the teachers make their assessment should not be changed. Teachers are responsible for conducting the assessment of students, and they do so on the basis of what is called the assessment code, the guidelines for assessment. We have therefore been content to inform about the assessment regulation rather than to take over the assessment for the teachers. In terms of order and behaviour, the rules are slightly different in primary and secondary education. As a layman and seen from the outside, it may not seem unreasonable to have a reaction if you boycott. If the student does not meet for tests for no valid reason, we can find that there is no valid absence, and it is stated in the assessment regulation that invalid absences are to be regarded as a breach of the rules of procedure in primary school. But it's the teachers who are responsible for this, and I think it's very important for the teachers' authority and the confidence of the teachers that they're doing what they're supposed to do, that's to preside over the concrete assessment. In public space, I have intended to be able to explain the legal and regulatory basis that teachers have for their assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e797	I thank you again for the answer. I'm moving into the second part of the question, which is, as the council itself says, the teachers are actually doing what they're supposed to do. I think the Council of State mentioned the fact that employees in school have also called directly and indirectly for boycott, as ‘problematic’. I'd say it's more than problematic. I would say that it shows an obvious disloyalty, and that it shows employees who do not manage or want to act politically neutrally in relation to their teaching. The quality of the school depends on trust at many levels and in many relationships, not least in relation to pupils and parents. Does the Council of State believe that the support of teachers for boycotting national tests, i.e. a compulsory part of school activities, promotes such trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e804	As I said in my post, I think it's problematic. Both working at school and reporting as a student to the school mean a lot of positive and much on the offer side, but it also involves some obligations. These obligations are usually governed by laws, regulations, school regulations and agreements between employees and their employers. Since there are so many people who depend on school, it is very important that we, as parents, students, etc., can have confidence in complying with such laws and regulations, and that you are able, as I think, to handle information that is very important. We also have regular exams and other exams at school. The teachers and the school, of course, also have a lot of information about our children, who are heavily deaf. That's why it's very important that we have confidence in this system. But once again, I have to say that the right way of dealing with the employees, if there are to be any reactions or something to happen, has to be between the employer and the employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e820	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e827	This question, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e830	‘The Riks revision has pointed out that the structural change in the fishing fleet has led to an increase in capacity, while the intention has been to reduce capacity and increase profitability. Structural measures have not reduced capacity and increased profitability, but have resulted in a relative increase in capacity of the sea fleet and a reduction in coastal fleet. How do the Councils view this shift in the capacity of the marine fleet and the coastal fleet, and what impact will this shift have on fisheries policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e837	The renewal of the fishing fleet is desirable both to reduce the number of vessels and to provide fishermen with better and safer working conditions. In addition, fleet renewal is needed to improve exploitation and improve the quality of the whole fish. It is overcapacity both in the sea fishing fleet and in the coastal fleet. By reducing the number of ships, capacity may be reduced and profitability increased by reducing costs of maintenance, tools, insurance, etc. Today’s fleet structure and capacity are essentially a result of the condition before fishing was restricted to access, from 1990 onwards. However, the technical fishing capacity of vessels may be increased if replacement is made at the same time to newer or larger vessels, by technological development or by the enhancement of competences. The technical fishing capacity of the fleet is, in particular, a private economic issue after the Government has taken the view that the allocation between the groups of vessels is stable and after the allocation of the quotas of the coastal fleet between four longitudinal groups according to the so-called Finnmark model. In addition, quotas have now been introduced both in the whitefish sector and in pelagic fisheries. This means that fishermen must be economic rational operators, building on their own performance. If a shipowner wants to build a larger boat with good facilities for the fishermen, he won't get a bigger quota, but can offer the crew a safe job. In other words, the government has prevented the transfer of allowances from small to large boats and no quota is transferred from the coastal fleet to the sea fishing fleet, as was the case in the 1990s. On the other hand, the government has opened up a test scheme for the coastal fleet to fish for trawl quotas. At the same time, the questioner makes mistakes when he claims that the profitability has not increased. In the ring-fleet fleet, profitability is very good, among other things. due to structural measures and coastal fleets, there are already several examples of the structural and operational arrangements introduced last year increasing the profitability of both vessels and crew slots. The increase in total debt in a group does not automatically mean a deterioration in profitability. Rather, because the government's economic policy provides low interest rates, and reduced numbers of ships and new boats, unless maintenance costs contribute to improved profitability. In addition, tomorrow, the Storting will consider the position of the Supervisory and Constituent Committee on the National Audit Office on the management of fisheries resources, so the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Storting will have a good opportunity to discuss several aspects of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e852	I am aware that the Riksrevision report will be discussed tomorrow. But I have a follow-up question. The Riksrevision report points out that the sea fishing fleet, which represents 2-3 pst. of the Norwegian fishing fleet, representing 80 pst. of the total catch quantity. Does the Government believe that this development, which has led to fewer and fewer boats, which have received a formidable increase in capacity, is consistent with the intention of restructuring the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e859	I'll recommend the asker to bring this up in Stortinget tomorrow. As I said, this report will then be discussed and the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will also be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e864	I thank the Council again for the answer. But I have a follow-up question. Minister of Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen has rejected in posts in the paper that some fishing boaters have been given an everlasting quota. He has also rejected the fact that there is a privatisation of fishing resources. Does the Government agree with this description? Who owns the fish resources? Why is it necessary to amend the regulations in order to make it easier to obtain everlasting quotas? It is the Government that is responsible for the policy being pursued. I ask again, why is it necessary to change the regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e871	It is important for the Government that we have a sustainable management of resources, and that we have a quota policy that also helps us to have viable coastal communities. There will certainly be room for debate on many elements here. Tomorrow the debate will go here in Stortinget, and there will be further opportunities to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e880	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘On the TV 2 news on 20 January, it was informed that 1 person out of 3 does not reach telephone contact with the local authority. The purpose of the scheme was precisely that everyone should have a fixed and well-known doctor to deal with who would give the individual proper follow-up. If it is true what is claimed on TV 2, these assumptions are not met, despite the fact that the doctors are paid for each patient on their respective lists. According to TV 2’s calculations, 380 settlers only correspond to 50 pst. of the enquiries. What will the Council of State do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e889	Let's agree that good telephone availability for the firm is important for the residents. Improved availability of general medical services was also a key objective of the fixed medical system. Studies have been carried out over the last two to three years to show that the availability of telephones to permanent doctors has improved. But it's not good enough, and some firm offices have poor availability. Monitoring by the supervisory authorities in 2002 and early 2003 showed that availability of fixed doctors varies across municipalities. In the autumn of 2003, as part of the evaluation of the fixed medical system, telephone availability was recorded by randomly selected permanent agencies. The study was recently published in the Norwegian Medical Association Journal. I assume that this is the investigation the representative of Alvheim refers to. The enquiry was sent to 240 permanent doctors' offices. The results are based on 100 offices and show that 66 pst. of the calls to the medical offices were answered on the first call. This means that one in three calls did not immediately lead to contact with the doctor’s office. The same survey showed that the average waiting time for a response was 25 seconds, and that in one year, fixed doctors answered an average of seven calls per person. integrates in the lists of the masters. Compared to previous registrations, telephone availability has improved, while at the same time one has experienced a very strong increase in attendance. However, there is wide variation between doctors’ offices. In 2003, the Lifetime Panel of the Statistical Centre also asked questions about how citizens are satisfied with the availability of fixed telephones. The study shows that 73 pst. I'm happy. Only 15 pst. gives a clear expression of dissatisfaction. Inhabitants who work alone, i.e. who do not work in group practice experience clearly better telephone availability than do residents who are familiar with larger medical centres. I agree with the representative that this is not good enough. In addition, one third of the residents who contact their permanent staff must call more than once in order to make contact. It is the responsibility of each municipality to ensure that the general medical service is adequate for the population. The municipality must, among other things: ensure, in cooperation with the doctors, good accessibility of the service. The municipality may require the availability of individual agreements with the local authorities. The studies show that it is likely that the service setting, interest and attitudes are crucial for telephone availability. The Ministry has recently completed a report on the fixed medical scheme. The report describes the status after two and a half years. In this also the telephone availability is illuminated. I'm about to send the report to the municipalities. In the accompanying letter, I would like to ask the municipalities in particular to provide a better availability where this does not prove to be satisfactory. I would also like to take the initiative to discuss possible actions with the Norwegian Medical Association and the Municipal Council of the Central Cooperation Committee of the PCF. If subsequent studies show little improvement on a country-by-country basis, I would have to consider imposing regulatory requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e904	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that he is grasping this. It's pretty boring, not to say seriously, in many situations, for a patient who doesn't get hold of his firmness. I have personally experienced this situation several times. According to the journal of the Norwegian Medical Association and on the TV2 news, only one of the three addresses is reached by telephone. They can't get through the phone systems. According to the calculations made by TV 2, 15 of them only correspond to approx. 10 pst. by their list patients, and by 380 doctors, 50 pst. patients. So I ask: is it the capacity of doctors or the telephone capacity that fails, or is it the service that has not received schooling in serving such an important phone? Or could it actually be that the decision maker does not believe that it is his responsibility to provide good access to patients? Unfortunately, I tend to believe the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e913	In any case, let me make it absolutely clear that it is of course the responsibility of the decision maker to be available. That's what he's paid for. But a little clarification is needed again in relation to the fact that you never get any contact - i.e. just one of three. The fact that one of the three does not get in touch at the first call means that one of the three must call more than once. So the reason it's like this: it's probably with most people who are with the representative Alvheim, that you've experienced calling the board and not getting a response to the enquiry in the first place. So there might be several reasons for that. I think it's little because of the schooling of those who take the phone. I think it's because, as the investigation shows, there's often a greater pressure on the central table when it's a large medical community than when it's individual doctors, who often have a better secretarial staff. Clearly, there are complex reasons behind this. Municipalities may lay down conditions for this in the agreements they conclude. So, as I said in my first answer, I'm going to take this up in the Central Cooperation Committee, where both the Municipal Council and the Medical Association are involved, and see what we can do to improve the situation. We can't have it so that a large part of the population sees it as difficult to get in touch with their permanent staff, who have been paid to be ready to accept these phones.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e924	I thank you again for the answer. In fact, the doctor gets paid for all his list patients. When at best half of them achieve contact, and at worst only 10 pst. does, the doctor gets very good income from that of his patients he never sees or hears from. The aim of the fixed medical system was to improve patients’ access to contact with their permanent staff. Access to social security is limited to patients’ regularity and does not apply if other doctors are selected, while the doctor is paid according to the number of patients on his or her own list. I find it strange that the Medical Association, which has ordered this study, has not itself dealt with its members and would like to contact the department. But I now expect this to be followed up, and that we will not get this type of report at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e933	Yes, of course, I share the hope that at the next check we can say that there has been a development, that the measures we have taken have worked, and not least, as the representative Alvheim himself says, that there is so much internal justice in the medical profession that they understand the seriousness of the investigation that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e942	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Is the Council satisfied with a situation where there is only a roundabout of about 400 of the 550 medical students that this spring prepares for such practices, or will he do something?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e949	I must first express my great joy at the fact that as many as 550 medical students this spring are getting ready for the tour. After six years of theoretical knowledge training and some practice, candidates shall have 12 months of practice as a medical gymnast and then six months in the municipality. After passing the tour service, they will then be qualified for authorization as a doctor. Since 1997, the number of roundabouts has increased from approximately 1997 onwards. 310 to the 750-800 per. years. The increase is mainly due to increased educational capacity in Norway, and many Norwegian young people are studying medicine abroad. In addition, medical candidates from other EEA countries and doctors from non-EEA countries have been given the opportunity to complete all or part of the tour service in Norway for Norwegian authorisation. A challenge for tour operators is that there are far more people who want to start the tour service in August than in February. This is related to the fact that there are more universities that complete the study in the spring semester than in the autumn semester. This applies to the universities of Tromsø and Trondheim, which graduate only once a year, i.e. of June. Both health enterprises, municipalities and the local authorities who have committed themselves in contracts with municipalities to receive and train new tour candidates every six months must have predictability and minimum variation from six months to six months in the number of tour operators. As of 2002, the Ministry has therefore had to put in place a system to take this into account. This means that some summer graduates may have to wait six months before starting the tournament service. Those who may have to wait are entitled to take the first place after six months. In the last three years there have been concerns about the possible lack of space in the admissions to the tour services. The concerns have been shown to be unfounded. I have to make it clear that so far all the candidates who have requested a tour site in Norway have had such a place. No one has had to wait to start the tour service. For example, in the spring of 2004, more than 500 medical students reported interest in tour services from August 2004. As of 3 May 2004, 148 candidates were on the waiting list, but no one was on the waiting list at the start in August 2004. So at the next turn, in February 2005, there are over 100 places that are not used. I can assure the representative that the department is continuously following developments in the tour services. The crucial thing for me is predictability for health businesses, for municipalities and for the firm as guides. The Social and Health Directorate and the Public Health Administration Office have established procedures to ensure that the outlying areas do not become harmful when the dropout becomes too large. For Finnmark and Sogn and Fjordane, arrangements are in place to ensure that the students who opt for the tour service in these counties before the trekking round are guaranteed to avoid any waiting time on the tour site.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e962	I thank you for your answer. I thought it was a good idea to know what the situation is. But I'm probably a little surprised that the Council of State so unilaterally is busy with what the municipalities, the businessmen and the laymen have to stick to. In fact, it's also important for the individual candidate. We're talking here about a lot of people who are already out there, who are motivated for the tour service, and who have loans in the Loan Box that start to pay off, and where loss of income can be a fact. Is it so that the Council of State doesn't at all think there's any problem that the hopes of these young people -- some of them are actually also established with family, do we have to assume, after six years of education, that they're no longer custodial? If the Council of State settles down to make room for everyone, would it be possible to intensify the efforts made in spring to ensure good relations?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e971	I think the general concern is evenly distributed between the questioners and the Council of State. As I said in my first answer, where I referred to the situation last spring, that is, spring 2004, when we had a lot on the waiting list, there was no one on the waiting list anymore when the reality occurred in August. Then these things settled. At the start in August 2004 - as the summer has been the problem - there was no waiting list, as far as I can see. But there has been uncertainty until the last moment for some. However, I can't guarantee that it won't be the situation until spring again, that it's a bigger start than what's capacity. It is clearly important to take both sides into account in this matter. It is also in the interests of students that they want to have sufficient guidance to provide them with a content in the Tournament service that qualifies them. I feel very much that this is reasonably well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e980	Of course, it is a wish that most possible patients in both municipalities and hospitals receive the necessary health care as soon as possible. As you can see, the rotational data is an important piece to make it happen. I want to ask the council to check if there is anything in the municipalities, especially in the economy, which means that there are no more places there, and if there is something in the companies that might cause problems getting more. I would also ask him to consider the position of the Hagen committee, which has been out to the audience, where one suggests that medical students who have taken education in Norway should be given priority before those who are looking from other countries, whether they are Norwegian students who have taken education abroad, or there are foreign students. In the last week, there was also a sudden announcement that 50 seats were withdrawn while waiting. It didn't exactly tell me that the idea is far-fetched, and I also want the Council of State to look closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e989	The last thing I'm going to do, of course. I can't answer it on the standing foot, but of course I'll check it out. We have a genuine interest in the fact that once we have increased educational capacity, it is of course important to get people out in the tour service as soon as possible and get them authorized, so that they can fill the vacancies that are available. I mentioned the name of two counties, Finnmark and Sogn and Fjordane, but also other outskirts, which both the representative Kleppa and I know well, have a special need. There shall be no lack of effort to meet the underlying issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1003	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the context of the withdrawal of the Vioxx medicinal product from the market, many of the patients affected have had to apply to the Enbrel medicinal product. Many of these are partially severely affected by rheumatic diseases and are highly dependent on drugs in order to function. A person in the form of a letter was first informed that the request for a refund would take 2 months, while he was informed in a new letter the same day that it could take 4 months. What will the Council of State do with this excessive duration of treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1012	As the representative of Nesvik points out, the drug Vioxx has been withdrawn from the market. It happened on September 30, last year. The reason was an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. The National Medicines Agency has made recommendations on the use of alternative medicinal products with a similar effect for the treatment of the patient group concerned. Most of these medicinal products are pre-authorised for reimbursement by the prescription scheme. According to the Swedish Medicines Agency, patients who have used Vioxx and who have had a satisfactory effect of this analgesic will normally be different from those who are currently treated with the medicine Enbrel. However, there may be cases where patients who have gone to Vioxx have entered a stage of disease progression that has affected them to use Enbrel. Treatment with TNF inhibitors, including Enbrel, should be initiated by specialists and patients must be followed closely. The medicinal product must be used with caution because of a risk of serious adverse reactions. The Rikstrøgdeverket received approx. 100 000 applications for individual reimbursement of the BIP in 2004, an increase of 15 pst. from 2003. The individual reimbursement scheme has evolved over time to become a relatively comprehensive scheme, which has given unacceptable long treatment periods for new applications in some periods. However, the Rikstrøgdeverket has introduced measures to reduce the duration of proceedings, and as a result it was reduced by 35 pst. from August to December of last year. According to the Rikstrygdeverket, the average duration of proceedings for individual applications was 3.6 weeks in December 2004. The Rikstrøgdeverket has informed the Ministry that the treatment period for the treatment of applications for Enbrel will vary according to the diagnosis of the patient. In the case of arthritis, the cases will normally be decided by the Agency and have a relatively short period of time. For other diagnostics, it will be necessary for medical expertise to assess the case, and the processing time will therefore be longer. The budget for 2005 provided additional funding to the Rikstrygdeverket to strengthen the work on individual applications. I have recently been assured in a meeting with the Rikstrøgdeverket that the processing time is still coming down. According to the Riksstrøgdeverket, it will also be such that children and serious sick people are given priority. In addition to this, I cannot comment on the specific individual matter the representative of Nesvik refers to in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1027	It's true, as the Minister of Health and Health says, it's not necessarily the case that everyone who's gone from Vioxx goes to Enbrel. It has little to do with the situation of the individual and a total assessment of the patient. The problem with this question and with regard to the long treatment period is that I had a telephone call with him yesterday, and he has now returned to the medicine Vioxx, precisely because everyday life has become unbearable as a result of so much suffering from this. This isn't any person who doesn't know what he's talking about. It's actually the head of the Revmatics League. It's interesting to notice. The letters are dated the same day, 9 December 2004, i.e. after the Rikstrygdeverket has pointed out that they have reduced their treatment time by 35 pst. from August to December. So here, there's a real plug in the system that has to do something about it. My question to the Minister of Health and Health is: Will he take a look at the Rikstrygdewerk just to look at this category of patients who have now received these major plagues? Can he take these out of the pile and get them evaluated quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1036	As I referred to in my first answer, I had a meeting last week with the Rikstrøgdeverket where we had a review of all these individual applications, and we went through both Section 9 and Section 10a. As far as I'm concerned, we didn't have much up to date as the representative here asks. But in the light of this call, of course, I will address the special issue with the Rikstrygdewerk in order to ensure that there is not a very long waiting period for this patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1041	In connection with getting the Vioxx case and this leading attitude was in Stortinget, the other drugs in the same group were also taken and transferred from Section 9 to Section 10a, because one would be leading was. At the same time, however, the agreement with the Progress Party was that, after the hearing bodies had said their own and the consultation period had expired, a new assessment was to be made in relation to this type of case. As far as I am aware, the hearing period has now expired, and the hearing opinions have been submitted. My question to the Council of State is, how is this being dealt with now? Would you now -- I was about to say -- report on what the hearing bodies have said about this group of drugs, in what form, if any? The situation that has now arisen is that some patients are very scared and uncertain and now want a clarification of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1048	It is true, as the representative says, that there has been consultation on the matters mentioned, and it was my thought that, to the extent that it is - and I think it is very likely that it is - necessary to report it to the Storting, perhaps the revised national budget is the first natural round in which it can happen, if there are not quite special conditions that would require anything else. But I can't say anything more about the content of the hearing opinions right now. I actually don't have an overview of that right here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1057	I allow myself to ask questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘In the course of a bidding round of the ferry link Mannheller-Fodnes, an unmanageable situation has arisen in which an operator is willing to pay SEK 70 million. kr in cash. Unfortunately, the system does not have legislation to reach a lucrative agreement to the satisfaction of public and, in particular, road users. Can the Council of State take the initiative to cut through bureaucracy and find a solution that can benefit road users with cheaper ferry tickets?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1066	The granting of permits in national road ferries is based on the Professional Transport Act and related regulations. The Directorate of Road has been delegated privileges under the regulations on professional transport domestically by motor vehicle or vessel § 3. The Directorate of Road decided that the round of tenders for the ferry link Mannheller-Fodnes should be cancelled because there was very doubt about the opening of the Professional Transport Act with regulations to allow the State Road Service to pay for the granting of a permit for the operation of ferry services. Both workers under the Transport Act, Ot.prp. No 74 for 2001 to 2002, and the wording of the regulation on the use of tenders in local regular services appears to assume that there is a subsidy which is essential for the granting of authorization after the use of tenders. It is not stated in the legal basis that it should be possible to receive payment for a right. To clarify this would require a broader investigation of the issue and would not be possible within the time frame of this tender. Until now, the operation of the ferry link Mannheller-Fodnes has been dependent on a state grant. Over the period 1998–2004, the country has purchased some 8 million services. kr annually from the operator. In the context of the cancelled tender, the road authority of the State chose to base functional requirements on the ferry offer according to the long-term objective of the new standard for ferry operations presented by the Ministry of Transport in St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004, National Transport Plan 2006-2015. This approach enabled the provider to replace current two ferries by one, thus reducing operating costs. This meant that the State was offered about 70 million. kr during a total operating period of eight years. The Road Directorate is in the context of the cancelled competition in Mannheller-Fodnes in order to investigate the legal framework for the competitive outsourcing of the national road ferry service in order to receive payments for the operation of the national road service, including the relationship with the EEA legislation. It will also have to be assessed whether competition can be shaped differently, for example: at the rate and standard of the offer. This, in turn, may lead to the need for freer pricing in the ferry sector instead of the common regulation to which the Stortinget joined in the treatment of St.meld. No 42 for 1986-87. Competence with the standard could lead to major differences in the ferry standard between connections. After these conditions have been clarified, one will come back to the question of how to organise the future holiday offer in the context of Mannheller-Fodnes. The authorisation of the current operator expired on 31 December 2004, but is extended until a new authorisation holder has been decided upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1079	I thank you for your answer. It looks like there's been a little luxury problem, because people actually want to pay to run the route. I find it critical that the department has not seen in advance that tenders could have such consequences. It was quite obvious that such an intersection would have to occur once, and it has not been taken into account in the design of the Professional Transport Act. In Inner Sogn there are two heavy toll projects. In addition, it appears that we get the first toll-funded race project in Norway. That means there is a toll collection on the ferry link Mannheller-Fodnes for 86 kroner return for the passenger car, 274 kroner for the truck. In addition, Springland has a return of 320 kroner for the passenger car and 1540 kroner for the return of the truck. So in addition to that, this is going to be equal to the racial protection. Will the Council of State take the initiative to use the savings to pay off the debts of the toll company financing Mannheller-Fodnes to reduce its costs to road users?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1090	We're going to have a review of the situation that has arisen here, where, first of all, there were lower standard requirements than what has been in relation to this particular ferry connection, and where it might be relevant to also look at the price of the travellers on the concrete connection. I will initially – without any local processes on the kind of questions that are being asked here – be careful to propose the connection between the ferry link and the concrete toll project in addition to the leads that are already there. It is true that this is a problem that we have not experienced before; ferry service seems to be so much more reasonable than before that we are facing the opposite problem compared to the previous one. Where we've given grants, it actually seems to go with such a good economy that there can be room for either improving the standard or lowering the prices of those who travel - or maybe even other elements that we haven't seen yet. We're now going through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1097	This shows that belief in competition in the market is very good, and I am pleased that the Government, together with the Progress Party, has removed more obstacles to competition, so that we can reach further in other fields in this area. I am pleased that it now appears that there is a matter of making assessments - cf. the Professional Transport Act. I hope it will come to Stortinget as soon as possible so that we can collect these savings on behalf of the road users or make changes that make it cheaper for road users to travel. I hope that an assessment is also made of whether such hard-to-load projects can lead to tariff regulation on ferry operations in these areas - that these assessments also take account of such things.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1104	We're going to, as I've said before, go through the situation that has arisen here and that in economic terms is a positive and a new experience. Of course, we are going to carry with us the wish that the travellers will benefit from this, in some way. And the way that it's going to look, whether it's in price, quality and standard, or whether it's in other ways, we have to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1113	The question is as follows: ‘The insulated vault of the entire Krifast tunnel on rv. 70, which is also the route of origin, is in such a poor condition that it must be replaced immediately. Already in 2003 500 metres of the plate vault was removed after roof plates fell down and hit a car. This batch is now without water protection. I assume that the costs of a new vault are so large that it cannot be taken over by the ordinary operating and maintenance budget. What will the Council of State do to secure the tunnel?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1122	It is correct, as the representative Kristoffersen points out, that the work in the Freifjord Tunnel on the Krifast link cannot be taken over the ordinary operating and maintenance budget. The costs must be borne by the investment budget. In St. prp. No 1 for 2004-2005, the work is described as follows: ‘In the Freifjord tunnel on rv. 70 has caused load damage to about 500 m of the plate vault, which is likely to have to be done for the whole tunnel over the next few years. Costs and funding will be assessed in the context of the 2006-2015 action programme.’» Work on the removal of the rest of the old vault will continue in 2005. Means have been proposed for the replacement of vaults and new technical equipment in the period 2006-2009. The proposal involves a total replacement of today's water and frost protection and upgrade of safety equipment after today's tunnel normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1139	I saw in the press a few days after I submitted this question, that the Council of State has put in sight money to start repairing the tunnel and securing it, as the Council of State has now explained. I'm very happy about that. The critical tunnel is in such a constitution that this work should have been initiated for the longest time. The tunnel roof is a direct danger to road users, for whom the example I have given in the question is an expression. Is it now the case that the Council of State has promoted or is going to propose an amount that ensures the necessary repair of the absolute whole tunnel - because that is essentially what it is about?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1148	It's probably saying itself that when we start this work, we have to take the whole tunnel. Thus, when this is incorporated into the action programme and allocated over the ordinary budgets, account will be taken of the need to deal with the whole tunnel. What I'm concerned about is that we can now make sure -- and we have that in the work that's going on right now -- that it's road safe to drive through the tunnel. Removing the roof plates is one element in increasing safety in relation to what it has been. Another element is that it means greater humidity and poorer lighting in the tunnel after removing these. Then it is important to me that we have a continuous monitoring and maintenance of the tunnel that makes it as safe as possible, and that we can say that it is safe in the tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1153	I think I'm legitimately concerned about the state of the tunnel, both in terms of road safety, and about the possibility of regular service through the tunnel. In addition, there are strong plans for the development of the port in Kristiansund, and through the expected increase in traffic there, inter alia. probably through a ferry to Scotland, freight traffic through the tunnel will have to increase significantly. That's why I'm very concerned about the pace of implementation. If it is to go from 2006 to 2009 before the tunnel can be said to be completed, I am deeply concerned. So now I ask the Council of State very specifically at that point: does the Council of State see any possibility that the work can be completed before 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1160	When I say that this is part of the action programme, it doesn't necessarily mean you're going to spend the entire period of time improving the tunnel. It could probably make it faster. So hopefully we'll be able to have a progress here that will get you done quickly. This will allow you to benefit more from a solid and good tunnel and to ensure that it is safe. So it's my intention that we should be able to spend the necessary money as quickly as possible so that we can achieve a rational improvement in the repair of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1165	So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1172	This question, from Mr Ågot Valle's representative to the Minister of Culture and the Church, has been transferred to the Minister of Defence who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1175	As the President referred to, this was a question to the Minister of Culture and the Church. I am then curious whether the Minister of Defence can answer the question I have asked. These are the following: ‘According to the media, the Swedish Defence Management cut off all operating support for the Swedish Defence Music Centre in 2005. There will be considerable consequences for the voluntary and professional music life, and in particular the working conditions for approx. 170 professional musicians. How does the Council of State assess the cultural policy consequences of the cut in operating aid and what initiatives will it take to prevent the closure of these important music workplaces?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1184	The defence music received a commitment of 94 million in 2005. in support of the defence budget. The music of the defense today consists of five professional corps, whose primary task is to profile the defense, contribute to recruitment and create an understanding of the role and tasks of the defence in society. However, the modernisation of the defence involves reviewing all parts of the defence structure and activities in order to ensure optimum use of the resources and maximum operational capability. Therefore, the Defence Chief of the Military Investigation 2003 proposed to reduce the number of professional corps from five to three. The government followed this up in St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004. It was suggested that, in line with the significant structural changes and reductions made in the defence's other activities, the music of the defence should be reduced by two corps, from five to three. It would give more resources to the remaining corps. For the treatment of Inst. S. No For 2003–04, Stortinget wanted to continue a structure of five professional corps. A unanimous defense committee suggested that 10 pst should be saved at the same time. in the body activity to contribute to the operational savings imposed on the defence. That is, an initial budget of about 99 million. kr must be reduced by approximately two years. Five million. kr i reduction per cent. years. That's $94 million. kr in 2005, with an additional 5 million. kr in 2006 to follow up on the Storting intention. It necessarily means much less operating material per. corps than if you had three crews, and that means a corresponding increase in the need for self-financed activities. Storing assumptions on operating savings of 10 pst. of course, for an unaltered corps structure, a challenging operating situation for the defence music. This means that both activities and the number of employees need to be reduced in order to obtain the stipulations of the Storing and adopted budgets. I would like to stress that a unanimous increase was behind these budget conditions for the defence music.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1197	What I'm asking is whether the consequences of that cut were made clear to the Storting in advance. What's happening now is that there's an order for a cut of 25 musicians' positions, and that there's no money for anything but wages, and invoicing. That means that the musicians can hardly play for anyone other than themselves, and that means that there's going to be a confusion. In the long term, there are those who are afraid that it could mean a closure. What I want to challenge is precisely the cultural policy implications, and then I want to ask the Council of State: does she agree that the defence also has cultural obligations, that this is an important part of the cultural infrastructure in Norway, and that the music villages can be culturally linked between defence and civil society? Does she agree that the cut will have major cultural policy implications?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1204	Yes, I fully agree with the questioner that culture is important for the defence, and that the defence has a cultural responsibility. We're doing that through the many old protective buildings and fast that we're taking care of, and we're doing that by just focusing on using approx. One hundred million. kr per year on the Swedish Defence Music. What we've done before is to reduce the defense by two corps, which became civil -- one in Halden and one in Kristiansand -- and so on, their cultural policy continued, but outside the Defense. The defense chief and the government proposed in the previous round was that it should be reduced by two more corps, which could become civil. Then there would be more room for defence's cultural policy activity in the three corps that were left. The challenge now facing our corps is demanding, because we must therefore deal with the budgets adopted by the Storing. I think this example might illustrate that at a later stage it might be natural to look at the whole number problem one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1213	The repeated resistance to cutting off the Defence Music Corps shows that people really have a great heart for the Defence Music Corps. I am very pleased that the Minister of Defense acknowledges that the Defence Corps also have cultural policy obligations. The majority of the Committee on Culture, Culture, Education, Information and Sport stated in the Culture Communication that the Music Centre of the Defence Agency had to be properly operated. There are probably different solutions to this, but I want to launch one idea for the Minister of Defense, namely to establish the music stations as foundations, in line with, for example. the defence museums. This means that responsibility is subject to a government, which in turn is subject to the Ministry of Defence, and that it is possible to associate with members from several parts of society. How does the Minister of Defence view such a very good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1220	I will always be open to various suggestions that allow the music culture represented by the Defence Corps to continue and be preserved. That was to the extent that the government tried when we wanted to reduce the number of corps, because we thought that the remaining corps could then get more liberal means to carry out their activity. I feel that I am bound until now by the very clear guidelines I received from Stortingen on this matter a short time ago, and that this must at least be a majority solution for the impositions and leaderships that I have so far had to comply with. I would also like to add that today's reality is that all parts of the defence that are allocated a budget must stay within it, even when it is difficult. We also have a policy to ensure that if anyone actually exceeds their budgets, the exceedances must be covered in the following year. That means there are tough frames for our music. It is therefore desirable to be able to find other solutions, such as: So as we've seen before, some of the corps actually become civil.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1229	Let's move on to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1236	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘In connection with the rental of parts of former Haslemoen military camp for civil use, it is forgotten to send rent claims of more than 2 million. kr. When at the same time you know that the defense is struggling financially, how is the Council of State satisfied with such a serious failure of the routine, and what will she do to ensure that the proceeds of the Defense are also put into the correct system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1245	I would first like to say that I am pleased with the questioner's commitment to just housekeeping with heads and ears. In these times I think it's worth remembering. However, I would like to stress that the defence property at Haslemoen was discontinued and transferred to the Defence Building disposal project Change Eiendom on 1 August 2004 for sale. So the sale is the goal, but it will take some time before the sale is completed. Defence builds indicate that the sale is scheduled to take place during the first six months of 2005. In the meantime, it is correct, as the questioner is concerned, that several temporary contracts have been concluded with various private tenants for the rental of parts of the tenant. Thus, the former military camp is in partial use until sales are carried out. Defence constructions reported in a letter dated 2 February 2005 that their revenues from the renting of Haslemoen amounted to 3.2 million. DKK in 2004. In addition, the figure was 1.1 million. kr outstanding due to late billing. The invoice was sent in December, but due to disagreement with the tenant concerned about the actual rented area, Defence Building did not collect the payment before the end of the year. I find it a little unnatural to go into the specific issue of disagreement, but I refer to the fact that disagreement about the amount of the rent is now being managed in a dialogue between the Defence Building and the tenant. However, defence builders stress that late billing is to be avoided, but in this case there is no financial loss for the defence. There will be a question of accruals, and therefore the year in which the income is accounted for. It is important to exploit the properties of the defence economically and generate income. It is also important that decommissioned military camps such as Haslemoen do not become empty during the sales phase. Thus, we avoid damage and other deterioration of buildings and equipment, which can easily occur if the camp is not in use. Activity means that the property also appears more attractive to buyers. The total amount of external rentals of end-of-life property from Defence Buildings is very limited and the lease term is mainly short-term. Defence constructions reported in that letter that the total income of such rentals in 2004 amounted to 19 million. kr. This is 2 million. kr more in income than the forecast of 17 million. kr. So in this case, at least evolution has gone in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1262	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was both complementary and partly explanatory. Of course, I do not think it is right to go into the details of the matter. But the question is in place, as it may seem that not all details were agreed and regulated, and that bills were not sent out in time. I hope that Defence Construction has brought with it, and that their procedures and treatment are improved. Of course, everyone can improve - including Defence Buildings. At the same time, I understand that the defense may have problems dealing with all matters as well, as it is a very extensive and quite large building mass The defense will sell or rent out in the period we are in. It may be particularly difficult to rent or sell parts of a military camp. However, income, like expenditure, must be treated correctly, for the best of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1271	Of course, I fully agree with the questioner in that. Defence construction is important for the defence's total income, because rent and sales revenue benefit the rest of the defence, and can be transferred to investment and important activity in the defence sector as a whole. Therefore, it is important to be careful with, among other things. sending out rental requirements in time. We have also received the insurance of Defence Construction that they have had a review of the procedures. Finally, I would like to remind you once again that in this case, Defence Building has fortunately sold more properties at a higher price than what was in the budget assumptions, and they have also earned higher rental income than what was in the budget assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1278	I thank the Council of State once again for the answer and would otherwise stress that the sale of Haslemoen will mean a lot to a community, in line with other communities where the defense sells property. It is positive, everyone thinks, that relatively many traders around have been given the opportunity to operate their business, in this case at Haslemoen, while the sale is being prepared. It's both small and big companies that seriously run their businesses, and they thrive on Haslemoen. This must be borne in mind in this case, and you have to arrange - insofar as it is not already in order - a proper treatment that gives both the defence and business a good cooperation too. It seems to me that, in this case, the big community will take it further with it when you finish your business in a district where a large part of the business has been based on the activities of the Defence. And I think the defense does.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1283	Then I can only briefly confirm that the Defence Building emphasises such considerations as the questioner here drew up. This was also the background to the fact that the sales process was given a slightly extended period, not least on the initiative of local representatives at Stortinget before Christmas. I would also like to refer to previous answers in the Questionnaire on this particular issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1291	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Halvorsen to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by Rita Tveiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1294	‘10. In June 2004, the Stortinget adopted the suspension of the long-term defence proposal for the period 2005-2008. It was agreed that the location of the district staff of a merged district between HV-15 and HV-16 would be established in Bjerkvik. However, the staging proposition on which the decision was based suggested that the staff be established at Setermoen. Now the rumors suggest that the defense still works for the Setermo. Can the Council of State confirm that the defence works for the location of the district staff in Bjerkvik?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1301	Sometimes in the Questionnaire it is tempting to just answer yes, and then stop there. It's not as often you can, but in this case I can. For in the treatment of Inst. S. No 234 for 2003-2004 for St.prp. No 42 The Stortinget decided to set up a new HV district, comprising Troms County and Northern Nordland, with district staff in Bjerkvik, Northernland. On the basis of this decision, the Ministry of Defence in its letter of application of 14 September 2004 commissioned the Defence Military Organisation to establish HV-16 in Bjerkvik. In a letter to us on 31 January of this year, the Director-General of the Heimevertet informed us that the District Staff of Troms Home Office 16 is moving from Bardu in Troms to Bjerkvik in Northern Ireland on 6 June 2005. There, the staff takes over the office building to North Hålogaland Home Office District 15. The relocation does not involve investment in establishments, buildings or installations. The chief change between HV-15 and HV-16 shall be carried out formally on 14 June 2005. The new district staff shall operate in Bjerkvik by 1 August 2005. I can therefore confirm what the questioner is asking for, namely that the defence is working for the district staff to be located in Bjerkvik and that it will be implemented in June 2005, only half a year into the new period 2005-2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1314	I would like to thank the Council of State for an unusually clear answer. I am very pleased that we are some of the decisions that the Storting has made, even when it concerns the Defence, must be followed. That's why I don't have any supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1323	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘In response to the Defence Committee in the context of the 2005 budget, the Ministry of Defence writes that with today’s pay system there is reason to assume that a 20 pst. the increase in exercise-based activities would imply an increase of approx. 40 pst. in wages and salaries. How have the costs of exercises, including wage costs and exercise supplements, evolved from 2001 up to and including 2004?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1332	My letter to the Defence Committee dated 10 November 2004 explained how an increase in the exercise-related activity is expected to affect the wage costs of the Defence. A key objective of the change of defence is to increase the quality and enhance the operational capacity of the Defence Departments and Units, and it requires increased training and exercise activity. Increase exercise is a desired development and a priority bet in the conversion of the Defense. At the same time, there are less clear distinctions between training and practice, and large exercises are often replaced by more specific training activities. It can make it difficult to find directly comparable numbers over time. Several variables are included in the calculation of the total expenditure related to the exercises of the defence. As I explained in my reply to the Committee, it is therefore difficult to give a precise answer to all the costs of exercises. Occasionally, practice activities may lead to increased maintenance needs and may increase overtime costs and less opportunities for relaxation. However, training supplements are a good indicator of the development of the practice. Surveys collected over the period 2001–04, which are addressed by the questioner, show an increase in the exercise supplement of about 1 %. 40 pst. - from 307 million. NOK 438 million. kr. The figures have been obtained from the Defence Staff, which states that the figures relate to accounting entries in the pay grades ‘execution supplements’ and can only be considered as an indicator of the development of expenditure related to practice. Sea defence training costs are not included in this numbering material. The Swedish Defence Research Institute’s assessment of day-to-day traineeship trends for 1994–2003 confirms that there has been a desired and significant increase in the number of days of exercise per year. order from 2001 to 2003. This is also a natural consequence of the conversion, by increasing the proportion of operational command, while reducing the share of command in support activities. Exercise and training are also a direct prerequisite for participation in international operations and for reducing the response time of the departments. In general, the costs of exercise are largely related to the variable-addition problem. As Stortinget is well known, among others. through the treatment of St.prp. No 42 for 2003–04, the overall objective is to simplify the pay system and reduce the proportion of variable supplements. The defence management wants a more predictable fixed salary system both for the defence and for the individual. Changes in the pay system, on the other hand, are a matter for negotiation. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee in the Innst. S. No 234 for 2003-2004 underlines the need for the large number of compensation supplements to be reviewed and amended. Of course, such support from the Storting is important for the defence leadership in the negotiations that are being held.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1353	I thank you for the answer, and can join me very much of what the Council of State says. First, I share her opinion that it is a desired development that we have many exercises, and that exercises are important and necessary. We have changed the defence precisely in order to improve the operational capacity and the quality of the forces, which should also be the interest rate. I think it's very important to underline. The question is whether the days of practice are too many compared to the past, especially in terms of costs. And at a time when we're going to have to look at the cost development in Defense, I'm going to ask if the ministry has considered looking at the extent of the exercises and the number of practice days compared to bringing down the cost of exercises.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1362	Both the views of the Defence Department and the Ministry of Defence are that the most clearly desirable thing is to be able to continue to practice and train a lot, but to get a more appropriate distribution between fixed salary and supplementation, because the defence has simply changed quite dramatically, from a defence with great support functions to a defense with much more operational activity, where training in the field is actually normal everyday life and nothing specific. That means that the questioner here is in on something very central. If, in the future, no adjustments are made to the supplementary system, as the defence management works for, you can find yourself in a situation where the individual defence sector will at some point choose not to have as high an exercise activity as you want, simply because the costs become disproportionate. There is a common challenge here. But I still have the confidence in the defence staff and the officer that you do not want it as a final result, and that therefore it will be possible to show the necessary flexibility in ongoing negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1367	With regard to the relationship between support functions and operational departments, I agree with the Council of State, but with the addition that we need some support functions as well. Where the Council of State and I may disagree, is where the boundaries are going to put these out, i.e. privatize the support functions or have them in their own direction. When it comes to the pay system, I also want to refer to what we have written both in Innst. S. No 234 and in the budgetary position, but will nevertheless stress that when possible changes to a pay system are made, it is the subject of negotiations between the parties and neither the Stortinget nor the Ministry that such ones can do anything about. The size may encourage the Ministry to take the initiative. But if it's right that it is, for example, is more lucrative to practice in Norway than to go to Afghanistan, something is wrong. This is a problem we've been through in the past. And I have to say that with the combined interest, skill and quality of the forces we have, it is important that it pays for them when they first go out, whether it's to Afghanistan or Kosovo. So at least I want to encourage you to have a relationship between practicing at home and going out that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1376	There is full agreement between the questioner and the undersigned. Of course, participation in an international operation, which is very demanding, should be better paid on the additional side than in most other activities. But it may mean that it is necessary to achieve results in the negotiations that are taking place between the parties to look at another fixed-wage/addition relationship system. I share the questioner's concern about the consequences of not getting to this. I fully agree that this is not something that Stortinget or the Ministry of Defence can decide, it is the parties themselves that need to find solutions. But one consequence of not finding a solution can be that more defenses, as the Maritime Defense did in the harvest, choose, when you have to take budgetary considerations, stop all activity because it is much easier to save by reducing activity than by saving on other things, because then you save the supplements. It's a challenge for the entire defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1384	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘The Minister for the Protection of the Environment has changed his former designation of the Roofing Wilderness Title for Uppland, but still does not follow the well-founded proposal for the Roofing Wilderness Title of the county. This leads to a fight that is very unfortunate for the game management. In its proposal, the county council has inter alia: taking into account political composition, gender balance, regional ties and personal interests and qualifications. What is the rationale of the Council of State for making a different appointment from that proposed by the County Council?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1393	The regional predators are State game bodies to implement national wild game policies in the region concerned. I would like to make it clear that in all regions, the education has taken place in line with the instructions given by Stortinget through the treatment of the birds of prey. This includes, inter alia: that the county councils shall submit proposals for candidates, while the department shall appoint the members of the counties. One has used the same criteria and procedures in all regions in connection with the appointment. There are only named people who have made suggestions about the county councils, the Sametinget and the Oslo City Council. Following its accession on 10 December, the Ministry of the Environment recorded that the municipality of Oppland was not satisfied with the representativeness of its members. In view of the situation that arose, the Ministry chose by letter of 17 December 2004 to give Oppland County Municipality a chance to submit proposals for new candidates, so that the representativeness could be improved. By letter of 22 December 2004, the county council then decided to stand by its previous position. In the light of the dissatisfaction that has arisen, the Ministry has, after an overall assessment, chosen to make a change in the composition of Uppland. Upland County Council is made aware of this change by letter of 10 January 2005 from the Ministry of the Environment. I'm overconfident that the people who are now eligible for regional predatory wildlife education in Uppland, in a way, will also meet the requirements that the representative Rudihagen Iseine is important for such a body. I attach great importance to the fact that, through the creation of predatory game subjects, important parts of the game management are delegated to the regional level in line with the leadership that Stortinget provided, and I look forward to a good cooperation with the predatory game subject in Uppland in time to come. Finally, I would like to repeat that the appointment of the members of the predatory game subjects in all regions has taken place in line with the instructions given by Stortinget through the processing of the predatory game message.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1410	I do not question or doubt the formal right of the ministry to final composition and to appoint regional predators. I asked for the founding to verify the county in this case. The county council's proposal was very thoughtful, as I mentioned, both geographically, politically and sexually, and also according to a woman who wanted to have into the important subject, which, as the council correctly points out, has been added to very important tasks in the robberies administration. The whole intention of the rapture message that was being discussed here was that one should dampen the conflict within this conflict-filled area, and then it starts with a conflict when it comes to the composition of the regional predatory game subject. That's what I think is a very stupid thing. That's why I mean that the department doesn't have any very good reason to try out what the county council here has proposed when it's dealing with representatives. Now the ministry has just accepted one change, but it remains to be met when it applies to the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1415	I share the concern that we are starting a very important work with a conflict, which I would have liked us not to have, because the regional predators are very important -- an important lead for the work. But the very reason why the ministry has shown flexibility, but also stood firm, is that there have been so clear indications from the Storting that one should be selected directly from the county selection, and precisely from the robberies policy, which is so controversial, and which is so strongly committed around, is very important that we are precise in relation to the directions given through the landfill treatment. So we've just tried to be clear that when the Storting has said something, we're going to follow it up to the point and the point. The raw game notification and the configuration from the committee will be read up and down. That's good, and it's very important that we follow closely what the Storting has said in this case. It's the foundation of the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1420	For the most part, follow up what the Storting has said in this matter, at least when it concerns politics. What the Stortinge has said, I can refer to: ‘The majority refers to the composition proposed where it is envisaged that the municipalities concerned in each region select and appoint representatives to the game owners. The Ministry of the Environment, as the ultimate body of game, shall carry out the final designation of the name.’.» There's not a single word here that there should be people stuck in the county selection, which is the formal basis for the review. Right, there's a sentence in the message itself from the department that says it, and when the Storting hasn't commented on it specifically, one can clearly understand it so that one has joined it. But anyway, this gives a room for action in order to be able to put in the best denominator, as the county council here has suggested. It is not in this range that a new point and a dot must follow the letter and words of the message and the Size setting. It is the implementation of the predatory game policy that it is important to follow suit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1429	There will probably be discussions about which field to follow up what the Size has said, to dot and dot. What I'm experiencing is that in the field of predatory game policy, there is a different desire for a certain swirl from certain groups. What I'm busy about is following up on what the Storting has done, and it says that it should be selected directly from the county selection. However, I have used discretion through a new appointment on 10 January, where I replaced one of the permanent members with the first alternate of the county committee, and with this the department meets the following demands from the county council: the party political composition becomes exactly as the county council wishes, the geographical distribution is better, and Erik Winther, the first alternate representative of the county committee, is given the name. So I think the department has shown flexibility and followed up the Storting. Today is the first meeting of the Roof Wilderness Study in Uppland. I have faith in a job there that will be good, and I trust that an important regional work will be done in Uppland as of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1437	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘In the municipality of Engerdal the authorities will protect 130 km2 at record speed. Interested parties feel that this is taking place irresponsibly quickly. A meeting between the County Environmental Protection Department in Hedmark and representatives of the municipality is being held in Eastlanden on 6 January this year. The representative of the County Council acknowledged that time pressure is a priority and that normal working methods are being sidelined. Postponements are excluded in the work, as they may have to come from the top authority. Will the Council of State ensure that the work is done at an appropriate pace?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1449	There is broad political support for increasing forest protection in Norway and for the active use of public-owned forest land in this work. This was confirmed when, in November 2003, the Stortinget discussed the protection of forests during the treatment of St.meld. No 25 for 2002-2003, the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. In order to follow this up, the Minister of Agriculture and Food and I, in close cooperation, have started a systematic work on forest protection on state soil. I think protection on state grounds is important both to ensure protective forest and because it can reduce the need for the protection of private forests. I also hope the representative of Korsberg sees it as positive if protection on state grounds can reduce the need for protection on private grounds. As part of the work, surveys of the State Forest area, etc., were carried out in the summer of 2004. in South Norway and important areas of protection have been identified. I would like to stress that the scope of the protection is not taken into account, but that this needs to be clarified through further proceedings. Extensive consultations shall now be held in which municipalities and other parties may make representations of their views and interests. The timing of the hearings will allow the parties to record. Recordings from the hearings will be carefully reviewed and evaluated. Among other things, protection values and other interests will be considered whether there is a basis for changing protection regulations or delimitation or, where appropriate, for taking entire areas out of the protection process. I can assure the representative of Korsberg that there will be a defence procedure in the field of protection when it comes to both speed and quality. Work has been carried out and will be carried out in line with current procedural requirements. We focus on securing recordings from municipalities and other parties. I can also inform you that a meeting has been agreed in a short time between the spokesman in the municipality of Engerdal and the political lease in the Ministry of the Environment, where the protection work on a state basis is one of several issues that will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1468	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When the Council of State says that there is broad political support for the protection processes that are taking place, it is far from right. That aid is here in this Chamber. It is not anchored in local democracy. This is not an exceptional case. We have had similar things, for example: in the case of the Outer Archipelago of Kristiansand-Segne-Mandal, Upper Dividal National Park, Lyngsalpene, Tillermarka, etc. etc. In each of these places and many, many more places, there is a conflict between the authorities who want to protect, and the local authorities and owners who want this process to take a little longer, so that they can be a little more involved in that process. The rapporteur also refers to the fear of job losses in this matter. But the question to the Council of State is, why don't you follow up on a circular that you've come up with yourself? Then I think about T-3/99. There is simply a call for this to take so long that all stakeholders become part of the process. The Council of State has replied in writing to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1479	I'd like to assure Mr. Øyvind Korsberg that we're setting up a defence process here. What I also think is very important is that here the state also put in work protection on its own grounds. Just to ensure that the level of conflict is reduced, I believe it is very important that the state be involved and take its share of responsibility. Both the fact that we get what we can call normal protection, which has now been on private grounds, that we also get voluntary protection on private grounds, and the fact that the state is taking responsibility, I think that I should also encourage us to have a greater outreach among the people in the important work of protection. So I'm glad there's support in this room for the work being done to be done defensively. I'm busy with what's going on right now, by the fact that the hearing processes are now in the process of hearing the various parties. That's to hear that we're now going to have hearings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1486	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am also in favour of voluntary protection, but then there must be voluntary protection and not just a technical concept that records that the local environment, both the political and those with industrial interests, protests against the so-called voluntary protection. I am also pleased that the Council of State will meet with the rapporteur, and then I really expect the Council of State to listen to what the rapporteur has to say, and to the interests that the rapporteur here represents in terms of business and the type of activity. You know, the thing about protective processes is going all over the country. Recently, Sametinget has stated that it should have a direct influence on the management and establishment of national parks and so on. in the Sami regions. Will the Council of State comply with that requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1495	I don't want to go into and comment on what Sametinget has now recorded, but I've also recorded the recording that came from Sametinget, and it will of course evaluate it. What I'm busy about is that in the case that's taken up here in relation to Engerdal, now there's a lengthy consultation period that's ahead of us, where I can promise that all parties, all those who have views and recordings here, are going to race and talk through the hearing. And it is precisely the broad democratic processes that ultimately lead to the final decision on protection. I'm glad we have just such processes that take care of the different concerns. It's not like everyone's going to be happy, but the processes that we now have, I think, facilitate smaller conflicts. And that's desirable. Protection is desirable, but smaller conflicts are also desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1502	Thus, all questions in today's Question Time have been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-02.ana.ud299e1513	There is no record.
