ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e79	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e95	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 20 minutes each, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and the parliamentary leaders, as well as the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e106	First, I have to be allowed to correct a mistake that has crept into the Committee's comments in the setting under the heading. 13.2 second paragraph, in which the first sentence is to be deleted and replaced by the following: ‘The majority agree with the Government on the entry into force of new sharing and indexing rules.’ Then to the proposal. Exactly 40 years ago, the Stortinget adopted the guidelines and main principles of the People's Security Act, which was adopted the following year. It was a historical reform. The parties were essentially in agreement, and the whole people wanted the fear of the people. It was, as the rapporteur, Mr Hegtun, said in the Odelstinget during the legislative process, ‘solidly anchored in a general and fundamental consensus, so that it would never again be able to become a caste in political storms’. It has been important this time too – broad political anchoring, which enables it to survive different governments. Retirement is long-term. Stability and predictability are therefore more important in this issue than in many others. I am therefore pleased that, this time too, we have had this broad anchoring of the reform. The agreement that the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left have concluded, has this broad anchoring which hopefully does not make it a throw-off in political storms. The parties involved in this agreement can be proud – proud because we belong to parties that both 40 years ago and now take responsibility in such matters. The compromise is a compromise. Not everyone has got it exactly as they wanted. But I think all of us who are behind it are satisfied with the whole thing. We've all given and taken, as it is in broad agreement. Two lots have signed up – Progress Party and SV. Both want to rematch to the fall. I don't think that's wise of them. The government parties will also be at the conciliation in the autumn, and I consider it a matter of course that the Workers' Party and the Center Party do the same if they, against assumption, would get a majority with SV and form a government. It is a major and important reform we are dealing with today, just as it was when it was introduced. At that time, the rapporteur, Halfdan Hegtun, said that the bill was unusual in many ways: First, it was unusual because it was extensive. The establishment of a compulsory social security system for the whole population. Secondly, it was epoch-setting because ambitious goals were set for each citizen to maintain a reasonable, good standard of living in old age. Thirdly, it was bold economically, by a substantial increase in the country's social expenditure and large liabilities in the labour and business sectors. Yeah, it was bold. Social security has been good, but it has shown that it has become a little daring and has some weaknesses that should be corrected. The majority of the Committee then also agree that a major pension reform is now needed. Those who claim that there have not been proper and thorough discussions about needs, sustainability and models must have really slept in the hour. The government's announcement came last year, and it's not exactly urgent in Stortingen to spend nearly half a year on it. Ever since popular fear was adopted in 1966, discussions have actually taken place on the challenges, developments and other issues related to the pension. From the 1980s until now there has been a series of public investigations dealing with these issues. All lots, with the exception of SV, have also addressed the issues quite thoroughly in their large-scale selection programme, including for this large-scale period. The last investigation came from the wide-ranging Pension Commission, which the Government of Stoltenberg set up in 2001. All political parties were represented and the Commission gave its opinion in January 2004. A broad majority gathered on the main conclusions, which have once again been a good starting point for the treatment of a new pension system. Many have run from the wide compromise of the Pension Commission. Some have run faster than others, and some have worked seriously and thoroughly to improve it. The majority realized that it would be wise to reach agreement, and we succeeded. In 1966, Advocate General Hegtun warned, and I quote: ‘The crowd will not be a mild gift to anyone. It is to be paid – as everything else – by ourselves, by our work and production." It was a wise warning – the time that now. The labour force is our most important resource, and the pensions we're going to receive have to be paid by someone. The basis for our common well-being is work and the income that this gives us. The oil wealth is limited, and the total value of our labour force is fifteen times higher than the sum of the oil wealth. The resources of the Petroleum Fund, even at long-term high oil prices, will be able to cover only a relatively small proportion of pension payments resulting from current legislation. The remainder must be covered by other means. We have to set up so that the value of work and the value of enterprises can increase in the years to come. Decisions on the future pension scheme are about long lines. Uncertainty will be linked to population projections and other factors affecting labour, Norwegian economy and public finances for many years to come. The number of older people will increase significantly relative to the number of persons in working age in all the population projections made. The unmet financing needs of the public sector are increasing beyond this century, regardless of the alternative used. The cost of the population’s retirement pension, which in 2000 amounted to 4.4 p.m. of GDP, will rise to 14.4 pst. in 2050. This is a stronger increase than in any other OECD country. For example, calculations from the Statistical Central Bureau show: continuing today's system requires that the employer's fee by 2050 is approximately twice the current average rate of 13 pst. We cannot leave such bills to our children and grandchildren. So if we don't do anything now, we can in the future have the choice between large tax increases and strong reductions in other public welfare goods. In summary, the current pension system faces major and increasing economic challenges through weaker growth in the working population, higher average pension benefits and increasing life expectancy. In addition, the current pension system stimulates too little work and has some unfair aspects, including: a gradual deterioration in the relationship between income and pensions and the fact that equal incomes from life can give rise to some very different pensions. So this is what the majority of the committee wants to do. We have agreed on important principles for the work the Government is now starting as a follow-up to the retirement message. The pension system shall be sustainable over time, based on the principle that it will pay off to work, and shall have a good social profile. The main points are: The old-age pension of social security will continue to consist of a guarantee pension at the level of today's minimum pension, which everyone receives, and a supplementary pension based on income, which will provide a better relationship between work and retirement than today.The government will continue to work with models that have a good distribution profile and that provide retirement benefits for all years of working life.In order to ensure the sustainability of the pension system, a life-time adjustment scheme, which means either working a little longer or getting a little less pension if your life increases. “No one can think it’s absolutely preferable that if you live 12 months longer, you have to work in eight of them to get the same pension. Another element to ensure sustainability is that, after the entry into force of the pension reform, current pensions are adjusted by an average of wage and price growth, while the guarantee pension is indexed to wages and salaries. – I don’t think it’s easy for pensioners to get half the value that productivity development gives, because those who work are more effective. More than ever, care work should provide better services than at present, and should be designed in such a way as to promote labour input and not provide clear incentives for bias between women and men. Compulsory service provision is provided, while any student service will depend on the model choice of the Government. Compulsory occupational pension is to be introduced for all in employment. The laws will enter into force on 1 January 2006. All employers are required to pay a deposit of 2 pst. of a salary of more than 1 G. – I expect that the Government will now throw itself around, if you can use such an expression about the Government, and start legal work, so that adopting this is one of the first things that the new growth can do for the autumn.We think it would be wise for small and medium-sized enterprises to set up joint purchasing offices, among others. In the case of self-employed persons, enterprises with fewer than two employees will also be covered by the pension laws. They're not today. For those who then voluntarily join a collective scheme, greater equal tax treatment will be provided, as with occupational pension schemes for workers. Government service pensions continue as at present, corresponding to two-thirds of final salary. However, once a new age pension model has been chosen, public pensions will also be covered by splits and re-indexation. A general flexible early retirement scheme will be in place for all workers over 62 years of age. Such a scheme should build on the AFP scheme and should be designed to pay for those over 62 years of age, to improve the ability to combine pensions and work and to remove the 70-year ceiling.As the AFP scheme was able to negotiate between the social partners and the state, any changes must be made as a result of new negotiations.In addition to the settlement parties, SV agree that the EFF and the oil fund will be converted into a pension fund. Although the Swedish Social Fund is moving to the national part of the pension fund, it is continuing to invest in Nordic shares, as at present. SV has probably misunderstood the government here when they think the Social Security Fund can no longer do it, because it can. There are many questions that have not been resolved with the conciliation – or for that matter with the announcement from the Government. We have dealt with and laid the basis for principles and guidelines. There will be a need for further investigations in a good number of areas, and there will be a need for more specificisation and design of models and laws. Important issues requiring further investigation are: how a new disability pension scheme will look at the design of how improved care provision can have a retroactive effect if it is possible to find practical arrangements for the sharing of pension rights between the pair of consequences of sharing, life-cycle generation and re-indexation of social security should be provided for the design of the occupational pension scheme specific age limit both in the private and public sectors, which needs to be reviewed as the State Pension Fund is also to be funded by our pension scheme and the State Councils pension scheme – I have to say to our co-representatives – needs to be adapted to a new model of social security, and some have to look at how it can be done. So when do we think this new age pension in the population can come into effect? The majority agree with the Government that new rules can be introduced gradually, but not until 2010. The split figure is effective for new age pensioners, and indexation is proposed for all pensioners, while new age pension rules enter into force. The main reform of old-age pensions will not apply to those born before 1950, partly to those born between 1950 and 1965, and fully to those born after 1965. It is not easy to assess the economic impact of the majority proposal. The effects will depend on how the rules are concretely designed and how individuals adapt to the new system. But I am sure that our objective, namely to stimulate high professional activity, to secure the funding base and to contribute to a more even burden-sharing between generations, will significantly reduce the speed of the increase in public expenditure on pensions. Stronger incentives for late retirement and clearer correlation between payment and retirement will also increase the total value creation from work in the years to come. Finally, all in all, I am sure that with this we will have a more sustainable, safer and flexible pension system than what we have today. With this, I recommend the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e245	At the request of the representative, the President will confirm that it must be acceptable for the Government to ‘turn around’, provided that it does so at its own expense and at its own risk. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e250	When the government brought its pension message to Stortinget, it was among other things. One thing the Workers' Party reacted very strongly to. There was the distribution profile — or lack of distribution profile — in the notification, with particular reference to the ratio to the low-wage and female profiles. For the Workers' Party, it was quite clear that if we were to be part of an agreement or enter into negotiations, the future popular security had to be very addressed in this area, i.e. in relation to the low-wage groups, the women's profile and a social anchoring. That was an inevitable requirement. The negotiations have now been carried out, and I ask the rapporteur: what is the rapporteur's view now on the model on which the agreement is based, in relation to the social aspect, in relation to the low pay and the female profile – based on what the Government came to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e257	The government's message was based on the Pension Commission's settings. There was a broad majority who had opted for what was called a modernized popular fear, with a better relationship between income and retirement. That's where you'd come up with a model. The government passed it on to a great extent, perhaps with a slightly better early retirement scheme. They gave and took all, also in the Pension Commission's position. We have also given and taken into account the agreement that has been reached. I would have preferred the model that the Government has presented, everyone knows, precisely because it would provide a better relationship between income and retirement than what we have now come up with, but I have no problem with that we have made a settlement that has a somewhat more uniform profile and a slightly greater balance than what the Pension Commission and the Government have presented. But I think the government's proposal was the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e264	Everyone wins the reform, said the conciliators at the press conference when the consensus was a fact. But now calculations by the Ministry of Finance also show the exact opposite. So there are especially groups of low and middle incomes that seem to be wanting to lose on this equation. How does Heidi Larssen explain the contradiction? So to question 2, the case rapporteur said that now we're getting a new and robust system that doesn't lead to major over-smokering, just like the population's back in 1967. The problem is that the population's reputation from 1967 has actually changed many times by the majority in this room, because it has been thought that there have been weaknesses in the system that had to be corrected. Does the rapporteur not think that there will be similar challenges for the so-called robust system, which the majority in this Chamber will now adopt?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e271	Of course, the rapporteur believes that a majority in this Chamber is going to change the old-age pension system that we are hopefully adopting, if not for too long, and the final laws. You'll always find new things to placate, improve and change. But as we have taken into account some of the developments that can happen, for example by: split figures, have been seen a little in the future and hope that the system can be sustainable over time, so that we do not have to take the major upheavals in too short a time. But none of us can predict the future, what will happen. But as far as we can see today, we have created a pension system that will be more sustainable and be better in the future than what we see with today's system. When I say that everyone wins the reform, that's actually right. So I think the committee leader might want to look a little bit more at the deal we've made, and study the numbers a little bit better before she says you don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e278	Right has spent a lot of time after the Pensions Commission introduced the setting, to criticise SV's model, universal popular fear: he didn't stimulate work, and then he was completely horrified because he also distributed between the pension lists. I listened with interest to Heidi Larssen's reply to Tore Nordtun. She would not agree at all, or at least not say it highly, that the model that she now advocates does not give the Storting an increase in the amount of work. So she won't take inward the radical change that she can actually recommend today. Does she mean that the model she has to adopt today does not lead to an increase in the supply of work for society? If she answers no to that question and still thinks that modernized popular fear would be better, how will she defend the model she is presenting today, as viable in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e287	I am quite sure that the model we have agreed on today will provide an increasing labour incentive. Some of the joke about the model is that it should encourage work, and of course it does. When I say that I primarily wanted the government's model, it's because I think it had given an even better incentive, but there are degree differences here. So I fully agree with my party traps, sorry, my partners from the conciliation that this gives an increasing labour incentive. It's part of the sustainability of the system, just that it's going to increase the will to work, along with part of the other things that increase sustainability, like dividing and indexing. Not least, it's important to get people to work, more and more. That's the work we do, and that's what it's important to do with this pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e294	The President will assume that as an alternative to ‘party friends’, ‘camera’ could be used in this context. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e300	The Labour Party wants a pension system that is socially fair. We want to strengthen public confidence, secure service pensions for all, and in the public sector, we want the pension to correspond to two thirds of final pay. Women should be entitled to a good pension, and we want to call about the AFP scheme, so that those who do not have the opportunity to work at normal retirement age can go off in a dignified way. I am very pleased that all of these important ideas are in place, when we are today deciding on the principle of a new identity. Is it necessary to make changes to the current pension scheme? My answer is a clear yes. Today's pension scheme is unfair, for example: because too many become minimum pensioners. Many with low incomes who have paid social security contributions for many years receive no supplementary pension. There must be greater consistency between what you pay for the pension scheme and what you get. It is those with many years of working life and even, low income that loses compared to those who have a shorter career with an increase in income. It is also unfair that around 500,000–600 000 wage earners only receive a pension from the population, while the majority receive a service pension in addition to the population. It is with great pleasure that I can say that all this injustice and all this craziness is now gone. There is a wide majority in the room here to make major changes to the pension scheme. I want to give tribute to the government party, the right, the Christian People's Party and the left, too much will to get a broad pension settlement. The government party, together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, is agreeing on a new popular peace. When it comes to modeling, the Labour Party has had the aim of giving us a social-security social profile that helps to smooth out income differences. It has been important for us that those who have worked for many years with low income get something for the effort and not the minimum pensioner, and that those with medium income do not lose weight in the reform. When the new model is about to be created, the Labour Party and the government have agreed to have a distribution profile that is close to the profile of the models we have shown in the option. That means that those who have had income between NOK 127 000 and NOK 235000 will receive a higher pension than with today's social security. Furthermore, those who have had an even income between NOK 235 000 and NOK 293 000 for 40 years shall not have a lower pension than with current social security and that all with a steady income between DKK 117 000 and NOK 470000 after 43 years receive a higher pension than with today's social security. The model to create an old-age pension in the new population is becoming socially fair, and low-paid people are getting a higher pension. This is particularly important for women, since women tend to have less teeth than men. Research shows that it is precisely among the low-paid that work is affected by economic carrots. The model takes care that there is something left for work and that there is a clearer link between work throughout life and retirement benefits. For a variety of reasons, there are many who cannot be at work. Therefore, we must have arrangements that do not punish those who are involuntaryly out of work. The amount of the compulsory pension is payable, which is now due to receive pension credits. The government shall assess student pension credits and come back with suggestions. It also applies to those who are unemployed for various reasons. What is more voluntary, but what is necessary and pleasant, is that more children are born. Therefore, care activities shall provide an initiation of retirement. It is still likely that there are women who take most of the care tasks in the world. Therefore, it is important that one facilitates women to work full-time as well. A gender-neutral system must be created that does not provide incentives for misdistribution of care work in the home between men and women. I am very glad that today we can say that now all employees are going to receive a compulsory service pension. 500000 to 600 000 employees can now be surprised that, from 1 January, a compulsory service pension is to be introduced. The scheme may be designed within the scope of the Entrepreneurship Pension Act and the Entrepreneurship Pension Act. In the mandatory scheme, employers are required to pay an inlay of at least 2 pst. of the pay of more than 1G for the individual worker. If you would like more pensions, employers and employees may agree that employees will also have to pay contributions. It is now possible for several enterprises to create a common purchasing system for service pensions. The purchasing arrangements may, on behalf of members, conclude contracts for the purchase of pension products from insurance companies, banks and others offering such products. In addition to the decision by Odelstinget on Tuesday, that several enterprises can create a single pension fund according to the inter-municipal pension fund model, it becomes significantly cheaper for small enterprises. Better and cheaper service pensions in small businesses are now possible," said Persen of the Norwegian Pension Fund Association. I'm also very pleased that the government party, together with the Labour Party and the Center Party, now decides that the service pension should be passed on to the public and equal two-thirds of the final salary. What is equally important is that the ultimate adaptation to new popular values is to be achieved through negotiations between the public sector partners. The most important effort to achieve a viable pension system is through the creation of an inclusive working life. Therefore, greater efforts are needed to secure work for all, and it is important to reverse the trend, so that fully employed people who are out of work long before the normal retirement age are offered work. We have to create a working life that makes people both able and willing to stand longer in work. Therefore, the Labour Party will call about the AFP scheme, so that those who do not have the opportunity to work at normal retirement age can go off in a dignified way. The government has been busy so you can choose your own when you should go out with your old age pension. The proposal did not provide a low pay for a real option, because by early retirement they would receive a pension they could not live on. Such an early retirement scheme would be a reform only for those who have had good income through a long professional career and for those who live on average the longest. As it is called in the answer from the Ministry of Finance: «People in academic professions and higher careers live significantly longer than fishermen and unskilled workers. In the case of individual workers, the average lifetime difference may be more than 10 years.’;» That's why we're going in to hold on to the AFP system, and that one has to continue working on an early retirement scheme in the population. A requirement for the Storting to decide on a new popular security is that it is resilient and robust, and that everyone can be sure that they will receive the pension they are going to have. In order to ensure a sustainable development of the pension system, a life-adjustment scheme is to be introduced, which implies that retirement age is adjusted with a change in life expectancy. Pensions in social security shall be adjusted by an average of the wage and price increases. Now many people ask themselves, who is losing, and who is winning with the new reform? Those who seemed to be the great losers of the modernized population were the ones with incomes at the lower end of the average. Since two-thirds of women today feel less than NOK 293,000, there are many women who would have lost in modernized popularism. If we look at different groups of professionals and the average of what they think, we can conclude that there are shopkeepers, hotel and restaurant workers and assistants – i.e. the large groups of women – who are better off with the new population. This is the option presented today by the Government Party, the Labour Party and the Centre Party. It's a robust new people's fear that can stand for many years. She has a better social profile, and she has a better female profile. The alternative to it is the Progress Party's pension scheme, which implies flat-rate pensions for all, that all become minimum pensioners. If you want more, get a save and organise it on your own. They do not even defend their pension proposal. The suggestion is dead, and the tombs themselves have agreed that they should be on it. They just want to get a little bit into today's pension system, with a little bit more care points, no to today's AFP scheme, no to the statutory service pension, and they want to take from the public to add their negotiated service pensions. That's the option we have for what's being presented from the Labour Party, the Center Party and the Government Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e357	I see that the Socialist Left Party, one of the Workers' Party's comrades in a different context, in the media is warning about the reform of pensions if they are to have a majority with the Workers' Party and the Center Party after the autumn's elections. Now I didn't think it was possible to rematch all the time you hadn't been involved in the first game, and in that fight – in so far as you can say it has been a fight – you signed up. Although this is a hypothetical question, my question to the Workers' Party is whether SV can make any hopes of winning with their views on the pension reform in any red-green government, or simply: Will the Workers' Party stand on the agreement they have entered into with the Government Parties and the Center Party, even after any government change?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e364	The President will suggest that rematching is usually only relevant in the event of a draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e367	As you can see from my building, I'm not particularly busy with football matches. But that's okay. The Labour Party is committed to the pension reform agreement. The agreement that we have concluded with the government party is in line with the unanimous national decision, and we will follow up the agreement. One of the objectives of the agreement has been to ensure that the future pension system is prudent. So we're stuck to the deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e376	One of the elements of this agreement is to go back to a system that the Progress Party has fought down within today's popular security system, namely the continuous underregulation of pension payments. This means that future pensioners will receive a pension payment that is regulated less than the payment to all other employees in society. It means, no matter how the conciliators turn around and turn around, that the purchasing power of pensioners will be weaker than that of all employees in society. Does the representative of Frøiland think it is very social and solidarity? Does the representative Frøiland think that it means that all future pensioners will be winners? How does she explain that the majority is now going to reverse a change that the Stortinget has recently made within today's system of popular protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e381	The future pension list will keep its purchasing power. An average adjustment of wage and price increases is made. If you look at what a minimum pension will be by 2050, you'll see that it will be about 300,000 with today's system. If one gets a little bit smaller, one can't say it's cut, but there's a smaller growth in the system. But the Progress Party, which will make everyone the minimum pensioner, says, "Everyone should get a low pension and become a minimum pensioner!" Then it's no more than that it's to be regulated. That's what we also mean when it applies to the minimum pensioner. You can't say that a cut in pensions, but there's less growth in some pensions. There's one in the comparison some of them about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e388	It has been said repeatedly from the Workers' Party, also in Ranveig Frøiland's contributions here today, that the pension reform will mean that the low-paid will receive a higher pension, that the pensioners will in the future maintain their purchasing power. This is a pretty creative way of thinking about it. Of course, it is true that the pensions will be higher in 2050 in absolute dollars, but the interesting thing for future pensioners is that the pension is relative to the income from work, the pension compared to the possibility of maintaining their standard of living. Then it is that dividing and indexing will mean a large cut in pensions compared to the pensioners who have relatively to go with today. Answers from the Ministry of Finance to questions from SV show that many of the future pensioners have to expect a cut in the pension of more than 20 pst. Is it not true that many who now expect a pension of up to 66 pst, will actually receive a pension of less than 50 pst, and that this will create new class divisions between those who can afford private pension savings and those who can't afford it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e393	See what the Workers' Party has done when it comes to this agreement — a better distribution profile, a better pension scheme for the low-paid, especially women. We are able to pass on the AFP scheme, we are able to have a public pension scheme, which is equal to 2/3 of the final salary. This is great. I understand that SV is a little hurt because they have not been involved in everything that is good in the pension agreement. Can't they have the ability to enjoy a little bit of what you get when it comes to both the distribution profile, the contractual pension and the public add? It's actually very important. Then we have some challenges, and that's that we're going to have a pension system that's resilient over time, and then it has to be funded by all of us who are at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e402	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e405	This pension agreement involves a much more complicated system than the already complex system of popular protection we have today. It has been raised beyond doubt that it involves significant cuts in pension entitlements of people. When the goal is to cut government spending by 20 pst., of course, the result is that pensioners will notice it. In the Pension Commission, the members of the Progress Party went in favour of a completely different model than the majority, a flat-rate popular pension for all of whom it will be possible to live on, but also a system in which all vested rights have been guaranteed in today's popular security system. Such a model would be easy to understand and fair to manage. It would have led to increased private savings and a significant improvement in the Norwegian equity market. The model assumes that both the employers’ and social security contributions currently paid would be greatly reduced. People and businesses would thus retain more of the money they make today, so that these could have been used for occupational pensions and supplementary pensions, not as in the agreement, where you cut 20 pst. of the expenditure of the country without providing for a corresponding reduction in taxes or charges. Since this model was not addressed to any investigative attention in the Pension Commission, and the Ministry of Finance would not give us any assistance either, the Progress Party has chosen to deal with today's popular protection system. We note that where our original objective was simplification and increased private savings, the majority now advocates – based on one main objective, namely to save government expenditure – a much more complex system, which also does not stimulate individuals to save for their own future. The Progress Party will reject a so-called modernisation of public interest based on the principle of significant reductions in government expenditure, but we would like to contribute to minor changes within today's system. Today’s best-year rule takes account of the considerations sought by the conciliation by making several holes in the so-called annual rule. Since all these holes, collectively, at least partially give a profit similar to the best year rule, it would be both better and easier to keep the current best year rule, not least because adopting an annual rule full of holes in itself would invite even more holes in the years to come, especially because today's workers are challenging in the sense that there are very few A4 people, and therefore you can't create an A4 system either. A compulsory occupational pension is now to be introduced in employment from 1 January 2006, despite the absence of an impact assessment. Although it is a noble thought to facilitate that all those who do not currently have a occupational pension will receive it, in my opinion it is irresponsible to introduce this as a compulsory scheme as quickly as possible. The wage costs of small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, may increase significantly and bankruptcy and job losses may result. Then it helps little for people to have a statutory pension right, if they don't have a job to earn that pension. Furthermore, the agreement implies the continuation of public occupational pension schemes and it is clearly stated that adaptation to the new model of social security should not weaken public occupational pension schemes. This means, of course, that all the savings that the government sees through this reform are to be burdened on everyone else, everyone working in the private sector. It's not very solidarity at my discretion. So the parties will continue the AFP scheme as it has evolved to be today. This is contrary to a goal that most of us agree on, namely that general retirement age should not be reduced, and that older workers should be motivated to work. Unfortunately, the AFP scheme has helped to push older workers who want to continue to work out of work. It happens especially in downtime. We had therefore rather seen a tighter AFP scheme, a scheme back to what it was originally supposed to be, namely a handshake for worn-out people in tough professions. The agreement also means that future pensioners will not be included in general welfare developments when the majority now want current pension payments not to be regulated as the other wage increases in society. This will, of course, weaken the purchasing power of pensioners in relation to all other groups in society and appear to be completely unreasonable, since pensioners have exactly the same needs as the rest of society. The agreement states that the unremunerated service provision rule will be improved. The Progress Party agrees and welcomes this, not least because it contributes to a better family policy. We also agree on the introduction of a so-called pension account scheme, because this could contribute to an individual's better understanding of personal pensions, but the complexity of the system may not invite people to a broad public reading. The Progress Party also supports, in principle, the continuation of a guarantee pension which is phased out against earning income pension, but it is important that this should be done gradually, so that persons with low incomes also receive a pension in excess of the guarantee level. We also agree that a split is introduced, simply because any pension system needs to be corrected for increasing life expectancy in the population. The free choice of retirement time is a welfare good, but it is also important that the system invites and stimulates work. It's a shame you don't invite to fund parts of the population. This would undoubtedly contribute to improving the capital market in Norway and would also provide greater certainty for future pensioners. The disability pension scheme should be further assessed. That's good. Such a review should focus on preventing the misuse of a good welfare system. However, I would also like to stress that a voluntary retirement scheme at 62 years of age, with reduced benefits, can lead to pressure on the disability pension scheme as it appears today, simply because it is better than benefits can be achieved by voluntary departure. Therefore, it is important that the government looks specifically at this issue in the further investigation. When popular fear was adopted in 1967, it was an important welfare policy reform. Since then, society has changed in several ways. We have had demographic changes, more women in work, a population with significantly higher education, and we have had a moving transition from being an industrial and agricultural society to becoming a knowledge society. In addition, of course, there are adventurous developments related to oil and gas activities. This, of course, has given rise to challenges, but also significant opportunities that no one thought of when the popular fear was adopted. As far as I know, it has never been decided that oil revenues should be used primarily to ensure future pension obligations. But, of course, it gives us the opportunity to constantly improve the overall well-being of Norway, including pension payments. Our main challenge is not how low or how high the future oil revenues will be. Our main challenge is our ability to generate continued economic growth in Norway. We should therefore have made greater use of the actual scope of action provided by oil revenues, to improve the basis for economic growth, to make Norway competitive through a competitive tax system and to make significant real investments in Norway. It would have over time also improved our competitiveness. A sustainable pension system is not just a matter of the system itself, but a matter of agreeing on a policy of economic growth and value creation. I have registered that the settlement partners now seem to be very satisfied with the agreement they have reached. However, I record that the case rapporteur has significant problems explaining the issue that has been made by the Right in this case. When the Communication on the pension reform was presented by the Government, it was not least from the Right that there was a framework criticism of the SV model, which was thought to completely eliminate the effects of labour supply. Now the settlement partners have agreed on a model that is not very far from the SV originally proposed. I register it, but at the same time I record that it is now believed that this model is, of course, very sustainable and that it will provide significant growth in the job offer. You obviously change rhetoric as time progresses. There's nothing we can do but take for information. But I think this so-called robust system will be put to considerable testing in the years to come, not least when the pensioners discover what the majority have opted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e446	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e449	There is at least one conclusion I draw after having read the comments from the Progress Party in the vote and after having heard the main speaker now: it is very unclear what the Progress Party believes about the future popularism, except on a few points, where they support the agreement. That's why I have to go to more secure sources, as it's called. I would like to quote what the Progress Party writes in the setting - it is referred to its own application: ‘a... fair system of equal pensions to all from the public sector.’ This means one thing: to make all the people of this country the minimum pensioners, and thus the sauna! Is this a proper profile for and a proper social distribution of our public interest? Is this a security network? So far away! Then I come to two other points, and these are the proposals of the Progress Party. You have a proposal on the AFP scheme. I am not going to quote the whole proposal, but it is said that the scheme will almost end. The second proposal states that, where appropriate, occupational retirement provision must be assessed before it is introduced, etc. That means you put 500,000 – 600 000, which today doesn't have an occupational pension, outside, and we get a big class distinction. [[President clubs]] Is this the social profile of the Progress Party in the future of the pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e460	The President reminds us that speaking time during a line change is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e463	For a statutory occupational pension: it would have been an advantage for all those who do not currently have a occupational pension, that the companies that have to bear the expenses were actually able to do so. We have not said that the occupational pension will not be implemented, but we have asked that it be investigated before it is implemented. Obviously, the settlement partners don't have time for that. Nor have we said that the AFP system should be deleted. We have said that it should be reversed to what it was originally meant to be, namely, a handshake for worn-out workers in heavy professions, not a mechanism that push older workers out of the labour market in times of decline. I don't understand that the Workers' Party is so eager to hold on to it, when there are many older people in this society who want to work, but who no longer get the chance, because you cynically use such a mechanism to push them out of work. Our primary model is also not unclear. It means that we balance out by paying those who have it for those who don't have it. In return, we give people back the tax money they pay today through employers' contributions and social security contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e472	The party that progressed came out early, they did not want to participate in a national compromise in this matter. It is more surprising that they are strongly opposed to our proposals and to the conciliation, while they themselves have as their primary position to make the entire Norwegian people the minimum pensioners. In their own program they have said this, and also in what has been presented by the Pension Commission. According to this, they will cut public pension expenditure, at 33 p.m., while the comparison does not actually cut more than 20 p.m. I understand that the only defense they have for not going in for what they've programmed is that it doesn't get a majority. It tends with respect to notify not to prevent the Progress Party in this Chamber. My question is more of a principle – and perhaps of ethical – nature. I want to ask the representative Siv Jensen if it is not a good principle, especially in matters of great national importance, to tell the Norwegian people and the voters about their own primary positions before attacking others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e481	That's what we've done. We have not concealed it, either in the work of the Pension Commission or in the position of the Financial Committee which is now being discussed in this Chamber. But at the same time, we have pointed out our great challenge, namely that neither the Pension Commission nor the Ministry of Finance has been interested in assisting the Progress Party in assessing the consequences of this. So Svein Fletten said that the Progress Party has signed up for the opportunity to participate in a settlement. I just want to remind you of one essential thing: we were never invited. We were never invited to conversations about the pension announcement. When I see the equation, of course, I'm glad we're not part of it. But participating in conversations to see if we could influence the result so that it could have been better than what it has been, we never got the opportunity to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e488	It is true that the Advance Party will make everyone the minimum pensioner – but not just the minimum pensioner; they even say that the pension should be about the current level. That means it has to be cut by a lot of billions. And I understand that, on the other hand, this may be at least as interesting, namely that the Progress Party says that they should remove the social security fee and the employer's fee. I've taken the trouble to look a little bit at the state accounts to see what this means. The social security fee amounts to NOK 62.5 billion. The employer’s fee is NOK 88.7 billion. In total, this will be approx. NOK 150 billion, or approx. one fifth of the country's total income. That means that it's not just the supplementary contributions in the pension that disappear. This also removes unemployment benefits, disability benefits, rehabilitation benefits, nursing homes, kindergartens and school places. So one-fifth of the country's income is a pretty significant amount. That means, of course, not just making the country's pensioners the minimum pensioners, they even have to get a lower pension – otherwise there is no money in this. It will be interesting to hear what Siv Jensen has intended to say to it. I could imagine asking the following question: How in the name of heaven has Siv Jensen planned to compensate for the loss of the state's income of SEK 150 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e497	The President stresses that Siv Jensen is not obliged to answer on behalf of heaven.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e500	That was very kind! I will first be allowed to stress that the model of the Progress Party is a flat-rate public pension that will be significantly higher than today's minimum pension. But it also means that people will have to keep more of what they pay today in the state treasury through the social security premium, or in the form of an employer's fee, which has been paid to the employer. What's the big difference between these two models is that the bulk of the population goes into forced saving on behalf of people through the state, while we go in to give everyone a basic insurance, and then leave to people to save as they themselves think would be wise for their own old age. There are two completely different principles for how a system should be. That's why it's not useful to compare these directly either, because there are two completely different models.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e512	In January last year the Pension Commission presented its report, and the plural set out a model that would lead to 70 pst. by women and 40 pst. men would take the main weight of the contractions. The low and medium incomes would pay for higher pensions to those with high incomes. The government followed up the report and presented the same model as its proposal, and that's what the Stortinget has had to handle in the spring. The model – modernized popular fear – in itself gave great intensification. At the top was the proposal on split rates, which increases poorer retirement if you live, and the indexation model, which gives you poorer purchasing power development for pensioners than for wage earners. The cure of the government's scheme was very unfortunate for everyone with low and middle incomes. It was also not an incentive for these groups to increase their supply of work, although the government claimed that their focus was to get people to work longer and work more. SV's member of the Commission stood upright and was alone in defending a fairer model – universal popular fear. It is designed from the following arrangements: There is a need for a reform of popularism. But it is impossible for SV to go into something that weakens the overall distribution profile, as the proposal from the majority in the Commission and the Government suggested. Our model makes it possible to keep track of the goals we have set, without renouncing the objective that the pension scheme should make a significant contribution to the smoothing of income, and not least give incentives to the low-wage to increase labour input. I'm glad that Right now has lost its rhetoric that our model does not stimulate work, because now they are proposing the model itself. Our model is based on the fact that everyone, regardless of income, gets a pension equal to today's minimum pension. But on top of that comes an additional pension based on income above the basic pension level, up to a ceiling of 8 G. This will result in each penny being paid into social security contributions, giving the same amount again in the form of an additional pension. The distribution profile is such that a lower salary is granted a higher pension. This is particularly important because women often have lower wages than men. This gives you an equalization perspective in the distribution profile. No one will experience with our model paying social security contributions and at the same time ending up as a minimum pensioner, as today's system is. Both the importance of fair distribution and the importance of increased labour input speak for our model to form the basis for the reform. And just SV's model from the Commission is the one that has proved to be the most sustainable, and is the model that now forms the basis of the agreement that we're going to vote for later today. The government also submitted proposals for the extension of care-creating schemes. SV supports the intention to provide pension incentives for care work related to own children or pay for care for other reasons, but the Government’s scheme has several weak aspects. The proposal provides either mother or father with anti-poverty on income before birth up to 6 G and at least 4.5 G. For working young children’s parents, the government’s proposal means that they have to pay more than NOK 353 000, which is 6 G, in order to raise more pensions by working than by being at home. For a large working-age group, this means that a strong incentive is not to work. This is a clear weakening of the bearer power that you have given up in the reform. Incentives for young children’s parents are further reduced by the government giving priority to increasing cash support and showing a lack of willingness to reduce kindergarten prices. However, SV will not remove care-creating schemes for young children’s parents, but will provide them with a design that makes it possible to combine work with care for young children, in a way that also brings financial benefits. SV supports the proposal to provide the mechanism with retroactive effect and notes that the reconciliation has just improved the government's model of the debt to stimulate work and equality between women and men. We in SV have always stressed that we want to introduce a compulsory service pension from 1 January 2006. We are pleased that the model that SV, along with the Workers' Party, entered the Pension Commission, is what is being laid down today. SV therefore joins the agreement at this point, in line with what we have previously entered into the Commission. We are aware that compulsory service pension will cause a financial burden for companies that have not been able to afford to have such a scheme today. SV therefore supports the proposal where a request from the Government comes back with proposals which allow for the creation of joint purchasing arrangements for service pensions. SV is also in order for the AFP scheme to be passed on as today. The government's proposal for flexible early retirement without the AFP would mean that very many people wouldn't be able to get rid of early retirement. Possibility of early retirement is particularly important for those who have a physically demanding job through a long working life. These are often groups with relatively poor wages. SV therefore supports continuing the AFP scheme. So to the deal itself. We are pleased that both the Government and the Labour Party have left their original proposal and now propose three models that are close to SV's model for distribution. The SV model showed exactly what distribution it was possible to achieve even in a new system. In addition, I have also said that we are to continue the AFP and to introduce a compulsory service pension. We've laid that in mind throughout our work. But the agreement has a backside that so far has been a little talk. The majority today agreed to cut future pensions of 26 pst. – and it’s not a small cut for those who have at least made a pension. Answers from the Minister of Finance of SV confirm what we have said all the way: The split number will in isolation reduce the pension by 5 pst. per 1 % 10 years, i.e. that by 2050 the pension could be reduced by about 18 pst, and the indexation will reduce pension costs by 8 pst. So the Government and the Labour Party say that one can only work longer, because then one cancels out. How real is the possibility? The agreement provides for a working life for older workers with open arms, who have ample work for 70 years of age. That's what makes this an agreement. It says itself that there are unrealistics for very many. Nurses, preschool teachers, industrial workers – when you have worked for 43 years, you have to work for three, four, five more years to avoid cutting. The carpenter Finn Erik Johansen in Skanska Norway said to Dagens Næringsliv last year: ‘It is not possible to hold on to 67 or 70. We don't want them in the chord layer either. People up in the '60s can't hang out with them." So the government and the Labour Party are agreeing an agreement that will create a working life that will accommodate older workers and people who are no longer able to deliver 100 psts, while the Government and the Progress Party at the same time do what they can to make people run even faster, work even more overtime, be even more flexible and even more readily added – through the treatment of the new work environment law. Of course, high pay can solve this through supplementary pension schemes and private savings, making early retirement a real option for them. But those with low wages, and many with medium income, will not have such an economic space for saving. The low-paid wearers get an option that they can't realize, and yet they cut in their pension without any possibility of compensating. There is only one word for this: nonsocial! Offences become even clearer when you look in addition at actual life expectancy in different occupations. There's the big difference. A reinhaler has a life expectancy of 71 years, while liga, architects and lecturers have a life expectancy of over 80 years. The introduction of divides means that those with the shortest life expectancy are penalised with a lower pension so that those with a high pension will live longer. So until the Workers' Party claims that they have secured people with public service pensions, i.e. all workers in the municipal or state sector, 66 pst. of the final salary. Yeah, that's before they cut. Because it is such that even those added to the municipality and state must accept the constraints of dividing and indexing. It's not a small cut, and it's not a small job they have to work to smooth it out. In the worst case, the payment of the pensions can go down to 50 pst. Yes, even less than 50 pst. And as I've been about, how real is it to work three, four, five more years, until you're 70, and so on, in the hospital, in the kindergarten, in the classroom, or as a reindeer, when you've already spent 40 years of your time in these jobs? Several things about the agreement are unclear or unclear, but what is decided is a cut-off proposal. Since the Commission presented its report, EN has clearly stated that this, which is the most important welfare policy reform in many decades, is to be presented to the voters in elections. That should be the case in a democracy. There is no reason why the majority today cannot admit that the agreement means a huge cut in pensions in the future, and that cutting just frames the young people who have the right to vote in the autumn, those who are 22 years old, who are 25 years old, because it is those who get the full effect of cutting. The majority have put in the whole agreement as a Roman number decision, which means that in SV we don't get to vote for what we are for, the point about AFP and compulsory service pension. Therefore, SV has the same points as its own suggestions, which have been put in a correct edition of the room. We take up the proposals, in addition to the proposal we have with the Coastal Party to reject the message, so that people can decide on the reform through elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e566	The representative of Heidi Grande Røys has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e571	There is a need for reform in the pension system, said Heidi Grande Røys, and defended the SV's proposals in the Pension Commission. It is a proposal for the regulation of pensions, with an average of wages and salaries and with a living-age adjustment. Here in the Storting, SV goes against this and calls it unsolidarian and unrealistic. However, I am pleased that Grande Røys gave credit for what has been achieved through the pension agreement, for that is why. We're getting a new popular reputation, which has a good social profile, a good female profile, which is more fair than today's popular reputation. The AFP is continued, all receive an occupational pension in addition to social security, and public sector occupational pension is maintained. The SV model should be the basis for the reform, said Heidi Grande Røys. It may not be right to have stood outside a broad, not just political, but national, compromise to ensure a new and better popular reputation – no matter how it goes in the elections to the harvest and future elections. It was now SV had the chance to influence the future pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e578	Yes, we are pleased that the Workers' Party is now laying the foundation of its model, universal popular fear, for the upliftment of what is to be the popular fear of the future. We're really happy about that, we've said that, and we'd like the Workers' Party to come up with already in the Commission's work. But what we disagree with the Labour Party about is a cut-off proposal. The effect is unsocial and unfair when everyone, regardless of his or her lifetime — which is also related to social relationships — has to stick to the same split, regardless of whether you have four years left to live or ten years to live again. When we know that those who have the least time left to live are those who have the lowest pay, are the lowest on the ranking, have the worst health, etc., it becomes unsocial that one should give the same cut to everyone. What also surprises me is that Jens Stoltenberg has said that we have to commit ourselves to adopting this reform now, because it is not safe for us to get multiple numbers after the election. But then it's exciting for the Workers' Party to base the working life they do in the contract, because the social life will eventually become the Right and the Progress Party will have to decide over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e587	Politics is more than talking about what is popular today. Policies are also making difficult and big decisions. One of those decisions is taking a broad majority here tonight. The pension reform is essential for the generations after us to also receive pensions. This is our chance to show solidarity with those who have kids today. SV now shows his true face. They don't dare to join in our decade and decades of perhaps the greatest and most important welfare reform, because it can be tough political and costing voters. When I listen to the representative Grande Røys and read the setting, it boils down to two things: SV runs from what they said in the Pension Commission, and they propose to reject the reform completely, alternatively, to participate in just the spending applications. It's classic irresponsibility. My question is, why does SV hope for short-term political gains in favour of sustainable well-being for our kids?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e596	By itself, someone else knows. If SV has jumped from what we stood for in the Pension Commission, not least the Right has done the same thing. To put it this way: it was not particularly popular with the model that SV presented in the Pension Commission, and that SV has stood for every day since. We don't have a millimeter in it. On the contrary, that model was very unpopular, we got criticism from all the baugar and edges: it was quite terrible that the pension system should put up to distribute income between pensioners – it got one to take care of in the workplace, said Right. It was also quite awfully as poor as our model provided. It was not popular at all, on the contrary. To say that we're going to make ourselves popular when we put forward and stand for something that we've stood for all the way, that's not true at all. If we're going to take the generational perspective seriously, it's saying that the one who gets full insight from the cut is today's 22-year-olds, who are 67 in 2050. We have decided today that they will get 25 pst. cut into their pensions. It is not particularly generational.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e603	It is good that SV is busy with future pensions. But then we think that one must also be busy with value creation, and by making it best possible for us to get greater value creation in the future. The Progress Party believes that tax and tax relief will provide a better basis for added value creation than tax revenue, for which SV is in favour. But my question relates to the 6-hour day: how does SV think that the introduction of the 6-hour day will affect national value creation, and therefore also the possibility – and security – that future pensioners can face up to future safe times, and get their pension, as SV suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e610	The step-by-step party believes that lower taxes and taxes are the answer to all questions, no matter what the question is. If there is also the answer to pension expenditure in the future, the Progress Party does not have much to do with it. The six-hour trial is based on the assumption that you will create a better working life. We have companies that are now trying it out, because they figure out that it's the best way to solve the rotation system, and it's actually profitable for some companies to do it. – Great, we say, let’s continue to get some tests and see how this turns out. What's the point today when we're discussing the pension system for the future is that we can't disconnect the pension system from what's happening in the world of work. Then the Progress Party has some challenges. They create a working life where you should be temporarily assigned, you should run faster, work more overtime. They sort of cut out everything that's out of the good and safe working life arrangements that we've built after the war – not just in Norway, but in the Nordic countries. We need to create a working life with space for more people, including those who can't contribute a hundred percent, that's why we need to secure pensions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e621	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e624	For the Christian People's Party, there are two key points that can characterize the important reform that the Stortinget will adopt today. The two key chords are security and dignity, security by giving the new people a broad anchor in the Storting. It gives strength to wear and ensures that the pension scheme is well-placed in order to be safe, although political strengths and alliances may vary. This is a completely necessary premise for a system that has a time perspective of several decades. In addition, security means that the funding of the people's money is secure, so that future pensioners too can have security that the pension they expect will be real when retirement comes. Dignity is far more than an empty tribute to the new people. Some selected examples show this: 1st@item: inlistbox The early retirement scheme may be used in a simple and tidy manner.2. Those who have taken on large care tasks for their closest receive a better plan for raising pension points than is the case today.3. Everyone now gets a service pension scheme as well as a population benefit. In practice, this will be particularly beneficial for women, for part-time workers and for low pay.4. Retired persons are now receiving pension credits. The model for the old-age pension in the new social security system is designed to ensure a good level of pension for those with low incomes. It means a good social profile, and it's based on the tradition we have of subsampling in our country. This is entirely in line with the Christian People's Party's principles and ideals. One of the elements of the pension reform is to make it easier to combine pensions and work. Many pensioners have experienced that after a certain amount of time that a retired person has wanted to have a part-time or perhaps a full-time job for a shorter or longer period of time, they have appeared. In today's system, it hasn't always been as easy to get this done. Now it's getting easier. Combined with an early retirement scheme for all workers aged 62 and over, many will have the opportunity to practice what they previously wanted to do, but could not. At the same time, the new population is so that those who want to stay longer in work are working up a higher pension. The agreement on pension reform is, in many ways, a historical agreement – historically in the middle of a election year in which different political parties opt for different government options, yet take responsibility, find together and secure the resilience and vitality of future pensions. The agreement on the new pension reform is primarily a handshake and a guarantee for future generations. Many of these liabilities have not yet reached voting age, so this historical pension agreement is not an electoral campaign. That is political responsibility in practice. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to praise our contracting parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre for having shown courage and responsibility and in a positive and constructive way involved in this national lift, which the pension reform really is. I'd like to see multiple parties have chosen the same approach. But this is not the day to grumble or to stifle. Today we are glad that a pension scheme with a potential for excessive wear and tear is established. The new people's fear brings security, it gives dignity, and it allows us to face the many future generations of pensioners safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e659	It was good to hear Sørfonn's good mention of the parties to the agreement. The syllabus also says that the distribution that is now in the agreement is in line with the Christian People’s Party’s principles and ideals. As in previous circumstances, perhaps the Labour Party has also this time put the Christian People's Party in place. Does Sørfonn agree that this does not apply at least to early retirement? The government suggested that you leave the message when you were 62 years old, but there was such a short cut that it would be impossible for those with low income. They wouldn't have a real possibility. So this would be a system for those who need it the least, because those who tend the most on average, also live the longest. Does Sørfonn therefore agree that what the Labour Party has been through here is important, simply to continue an AFP scheme, and that a better early retirement scheme is being worked on within the population's population?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e667	I am pleased that this work on the pension reform, from the Pension Commission and beyond to the treatment in the Grand Duchy, has always been marked by a willingness to find a broad solution. That means willingness to compromise. When it comes to the specific question from Rudihagen, early retirement pensions are very close to the one I used, namely ‘valuability’, that worn-out workers should be able to end their professional career in a dignified and good way. That was the whole purpose of the AFP scheme. The AFP scheme is passed on, but at the same time the early retirement scheme ensures that groups not covered by the AFP scheme also receive these opportunities. So I don't see any contradiction in this. We now have a broad, general and good early retirement scheme, which provides dignity and security so that older, worn-out workers can successfully complete their professional career.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e674	One would not believe it when one hears the debate here today, but the main goal of pension reform has always been to save money. One of the consequences of the cutbacks adopted today by the Stortinget is that many people will be concerned about their future pension, and that many will not find themselves in such a drastic reduction in living standards as the transition from labour income to retirement in the future may involve. This means that in practice this reform will also be a privatisation reform, which will allow society as a whole to have equal expenditure on pensions, but that they are privately managed rather than publicly. It will also mean that there is a class distinction between those who can afford to save on private pensions and those who can't afford it. Is not the Christian People's Party at all concerned about those people who will experience reduced pensions because they do not have the opportunity to work as long as the majority require, while they cannot afford to save on pensions privately?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e681	Some of the main objectives of the pension reform are to create resilience, so that future generations of pensioners should also know that they have security for their pensions. I have to say that I am somewhat disappointed with SV, who lacks the courage to flag anything, and who wants to push this above itself, in other words, to push the problems over to future generations. This pension reform does not involve a class distinction, rather the opposite. It mitigates the differences in class due to the introduction of a compulsory service pension for all. This means that 500,000–600,000 new workers who do not have such a scheme will be included in the scheme, and this will primarily apply to those with low incomes and part-time contributions. The women will also get a lot of this, so this is a significant improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e688	I notice that the majority and the Christian People's Party are also in favour of a compulsory service pension in all working conditions, and in many ways the intentions behind this are positive. But we know, of course, that a lot of businesses are struggling and are having trouble getting the economy to go around. For some of these companies, this may mean that they are now unable to operate any longer, and that they must stop the operation and cancel the employees. My question to the representative Ingebrigig Sørfonn is: What kind of advice will the representative give to those companies that no longer manage to operate the enterprise because they get a compulsory service pension paid down to their head? What would the representative say to the workers who are resigned because of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e695	I want to say that some of the concerns presented here were exaggerating. The actual ratios are such that, among other things: The NHO has said that they greatly appreciate this reform. If you read the appointment and the setting, it is taken as a height that this will not result in a revolution that will more or less eliminate jobs - as gardening sets are almost impressed by. Then I get a little confused. Whether it is that the Progress Party's answer to this is, firstly, to make everyone the minimum pensioner, secondly, to dramatically reduce the state's income and, thirdly, to do what is called in a popular language to empty our children's piggybacks, I don't think it's any high-level political action or thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e705	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e708	The centre party has wanted to contribute strongly to a broad consensus on this very important matter. It is important to prevent uncertainty about future pensions. It would be very unfortunate if important elements of a pension system had to be changed annually or for decades. And now we can avoid that. The agreement at Stortinget is broad, and important organisations in the labour market support it. Our most important concern was to get a much better equalization profile than the government proposed. Workers with low and medium incomes will now come out much better, and a majority of women belong to them. On the basis of the outline of the model of the new population benefit presented by the majority, one with income of approximately DKK 180 000 – that is the average wage for women in Norway today – will receive a right pension of NOK 30 000 after 43 years of earnings than after the proposal of the Pension Commission and NOK 15 000 more than today’s national income. With an income of SEK 470,000, the new population will be 30 000 kr right over today's population. The Pension Commission proposal would give a gain of NOK 60000 for this income. New social security will provide far fewer minimum pensioners, because supplementary pension is to be earned from the first penny. Another main concern of the Centre Party was to ensure that the reform, and in particular the introduction of compulsory occupational pensions, is not at the expense of employment and value creation. The Commission and several business organisations have demonstrated that a majority of those currently lacking occupational retirement provision work in small and often start-ups with a poor economy. All 73 p.m. of the 500000-600 000 without occupational retirement provision work in enterprises with four or fewer employees, and only 16 pst. works in enterprises with over 100 employees. Of the smallest enterprises, with less than 1 million. kr on the market, operates a total of 43 pst. with a deficit. In the pension agreement, the Government is asked to assess the economic impact of compulsory occupational retirement provision on these grounds. At the same time, the list of the company's deposits and premium is low by paying 2 pst. of income above 1 G. The costs of enterprises can be reduced by the creation of a single pension fund for several enterprises and by the establishment of joint purchasing schemes for pension savings. Pension funds have, as you know, much lower administrative costs than insurance corporations have. Today it's just ten pst. of the 170 000 self-employed persons who have a pension scheme. It is now possible that self-employed persons can voluntarily join the same reasonable savings schemes that apply to employees and that the tax advantage should be the same. For the centre party, the content of the contract has been more important than the time of processing. We believe that the content of the agreement was very good, and that the connection could become narrower if today's government parties would come into opposition at a later processing. I think it is a pity that SV did not join in the conciliation because in that way it showed to influence this even more in its direction than the minority in the LO Congress has contributed to. The centre party has also stressed the importance of eliminating the significant concerns of pensions created by some commercial actors. Pension sales have increased considerably in the current year — even to older people who could find better savings schemes. Treatment of the pension reform has increased the focus on the value of increased labour force. The fact that so many people are pushed out of the labour market — more or less voluntary — long before reaching retirement age represents a huge waste. For many, this implies a lower life expectancy and a lower quality of life, as well as a lower economy. It is dramatic that men in Oslo’s worst city live ten years shorter than those in the best district. Longer lifetime and better quality of life are the main objectives of the Centre Party, and prevention and mitigation are important instruments. For us, therefore, the much - mentioned wave of old age is the country’s biggest luxury problem. That parents and grandparents get to live longer with their descendants, is just great, and so do pensioners keep talking longer. It's a shame we don't have computational methods that value such progress in society. Several older people are leading to new challenges in care and health. We get better advice to solve these challenges when more people are working longer. The central party believes that the incentives in the pension agreement to work longer are crucial, and believes in a change in mentality both at individual employees and at employers, so that the spread of seniors is better taken care of. I hope that a more positive senior policy will now force itself, and that state contributions will move in the right direction. Too many state-owned enterprises have used AFP to de-manage. In the opinion of the Centre Party, a reduced employer’s fee for all over 55 years will be a good government contribution. A flexible early retirement scheme is necessary. It is positive that all pensioners should now be able to receive a salary without any pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e734	Today's pension system will not be economically robust for decades to come. People live longer and retire earlier. More and more people have to take care of less and less. While there were about four working per. Retirement in the creation of the population in 1967, today it's about 2.5, and in 2040 it'll be about 1.8 working per. retired. While today it's going to be useful around 7 pst. of society's total resources for pension and health expenditure of the elderly, it is estimated to be 18 pst. in 2040. If the current pension scheme is not changed, this will bind the expected future value creation of the decades to come. The reform of pensions is therefore necessary for future generations. Implementing a reform now is solidarity with future generations. Our children and grandchildren will be guaranteed the same well-being that we have today. The left wanted a broadest possible deal in the Storting, so that the pension reform could be viable over time, just as when today’s popular fear was established in 1967. The left fully supports a reform that makes working profitable, which provides a clearer link between work and retirement, and which has greater flexibility in the relationship between work and retirement and the time of retirement. At the same time, it has been important for the Left to take care of workers, including workers. in traditional women's clubs, which have often had a very labour-intensive professional life. The left has sought to facilitate the provision of service pensions in the private sector. At a time of struggle for skilled labour, the private sector must also be competitive in relation to pensions. Private sector service pensions must be set up in such a way that it is economically and practically possible for the individual enterprise to join a social security system. Today, enterprises with fewer than two employment sets are not covered by the benefits under the Act on Pensions for Deposits and the Act on Pensions for Entrepreneurs. This agreement will change. Self-employed people will now be able to join them. For those with a voluntary membership of collective service pension schemes, greater non-tax treatment will be provided with occupational pension schemes for employees. These are major improvements for self-employed people. Today, we have adopted a historic reform of the population. The Left is very pleased that the Government Party, the Labour Party and the Center Party have ensured that there is now a broad majority for a pension reform that provides a safer and more flexible pension system for future generations. This is the future, and it is solidarity with future generations. I thought there was respect for the parties that now take responsibility and stand behind the conciliation – a settlement where everyone has the power to give and take. Pension settlement is policy and accountability at its best. One has also brought the majority in trades and among employers. That overarching objective is a popular concern that is more economically viable, and a system that is more stimulating to work and better suited to the labour market of the future. Yes, we have. We get a flexible early retirement for everyone from 62 years, not just for those who have AFP today. The agreement we have now entered into will provide a good level of pension both for people who have had income through professional careers and for those who have had great care for their closest. Thus, the pension agreement contributes to greater social cohesion, without heavy costs being imposed on future generations. We get a flexible pension scheme with compulsory service pension for all those about 500,000 added in the private sector. Self-employed persons are now given the option to choose tax-friendly service pension schemes. In addition, they are secured with low income good and safe pensions. As with most major reforms and issues of national importance, the responsibility of the parties is tested. And as in most major matters that require responsibility and healing, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party look on the sideline in a common shelf. The only two parties that have never been in government have stood out. Both of these parties want government and conduct an irresponsible policy that can rightly be called the generationary. If this had been an examination of responsibility, both parties would have had the character "not passed". The left has always been and will still be a responsible center party. We find the most responsible and best solutions in the centre of Norwegian policy. We are proud to stick with the other parties behind a pension settlement that provides current and future generations with a fair, responsible and resilient pension system. This is what we do in 2005, and we did it in 1967, when the people's fear was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e760	A good welfare country is always defined by how the weakest are taken care of. Societal researchers say in connection with the hundred-year celebration of Norway as an independent nation that the development of the welfare state is the most unique thing that has happened in our country. No one should fall completely through, whether they get old or sick. Now the social scientists are warning us. They believe that the welfare country’s safety network is on the move. Nyliberalism has had a strong foothold among the Norwegian people. The consequence is less respect for the weakest, for the retired and for the sick, and the result is that the Storting is building down the welfare state. We in the Coast Party believe that Community solutions, which have nothing to do with socialism, are the best solutions to some common challenges, such as hospital services, school, police, health or guaranteed good care for the elderly and a secure economy in old age. This is the starting point for us to believe that in the future, popular fear will also be the pillar of the welfare society. That is why we disagree with the weakenings of popular fear proposed by the Government and the majority of the population. Instead, we are proposing to strengthen popular confidence. We want to expand the population so that it becomes more consistent with the intention of social security when it was launched in 1967. When we were almost a poor country, no question was asked about our respect for the elderly and the demands of the elderly on a worthy old age. When the pension reform came in 1967, there was a revolution in our care of the sick and the elderly. We became a proud people. People were pleased with this measure to eradicate the great poverty in Norway. We in the Coast Party believe that everyone should also today be guaranteed a decent guarantee pension, regardless of whether the person has had income or not. In addition, there shall be an additional pension with a clearer link between income and retirement. The Coastal Party is therefore in favour of a significant increase in the supplementary pension for social security, in order to achieve a better match between payment and pension without reducing the minimum pension. I want to stay a little bit at one of the government's proposals. The government is running in St.meld. No 12 for 2004-2005, inter alia for a compulsory occupational pension in addition to social security. The government proposes that these occupational pensions be financed directly from the private part of the economy by means of social security contributions to be paid by the individual or by the employer. I believe that the proposal to change popular security is part of a policy aimed at shifting the costs of social security from public budgets to the money book of each individual citizen. With the government's plans, there will be less taxes, but the cost of social security will be at least equal, and the total social security and tax burden will be at least equal. I am therefore of the opinion that there is a bit of a smart horse dealer in the Right or Workers' Party who in this way will somehow trick the voters into thinking that they will receive tax relief. All this trickery from the Government and the Workers' Party must end it. That they never get tired! The right thing to do is: if you want to, you can get a real tax credit by stopping paying supplementary social security schemes. If you do, you get a lot of freedom to choose poverty in old age. However, poverty in old age will lead to the safety net of the weakest. The great welfare state will be perplexed and scrambled. The fundamental distinction between the Coastal Party and the majority is that the majority believe that payments to the compulsory private sector occupational pension schemes are to be made to privately owned pensioners, while the Coastal Party proposes that payments be made to the public pension fund. There was a bit of a run from banks and insurance companies at Stortinget before this agreement. Banks and insurance corporations won. Solidarity lost. The costs for the total Norwegian economy, for individuals and employers are reduced by the Coastal Party proposal, because private pension schemes are very expensive to administer in relation to the population’s security. I understand the majority behind the pension reform. I would also like to be able to avoid accounting for expenditure on old age and sickness on the state budget. I also believe that the ways of our Lord are incalculable, and I also regard sickness and old age as the great challenge of our Lord. It's tiring, it's demanding, it's exhausting, and it's expensive. It's expensive for society to give the weakest an outcome of which they can live properly, regardless of previous income or social status. But these expenses are part of the nation's spinal cord and part of our dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e777	The path to the current treatment of the pension reform has been a long one. For many years – through several investigations – we have addressed the need for a pension reform and what changes should be made. It is therefore in the light of a lot of debate, thorough professional investigations and a number of consultations, now at the latest in the United Kingdom, that the main principles of a new state of public confidence are being gathered. The government is pleased to have got through the main lines from the big message that I posted on behalf of the Government last December. We now have a popular security that provides security for future pensions – security because we have managed to create a more sustainable system of popular security. The sustainability is ensured, inter alia, by: by making it more profitable to work. The relationship between our work and our well-being is becoming clearer with this reform. This follows up the policy of the Co-operation Government in other important areas: taxation policy, where tax reform makes working more profitable, and generally in welfare policy, which is designed to get more people to work. We're going to have a working life where there's room for everyone. The need for pension reform is clear. We're becoming more and more retired, while the number of economically active people who have to pay the pensions is decreasing. So we are facing changes in our working life, and it is with the aim of these changes that the reform is structured. It is not based on a one-sided view of today's labour market. Reform is necessary if we are not to postpone other important welfare tasks or increase taxes in a way that threatens future value creation. Without reform, we are putting welfare at risk. A layer of scouring and walking policy, some of which have been called for, would be profoundly unsocial, not least in relation to those who are young today. It is therefore very gratifying that it has been possible to bring together a broad political majority, consisting of responsible parties, on the principles of a new popular identity. The winners today are those who do not have the right to vote for the harvest. The pensioners of tomorrow's working and tomorrow's pensioners shall also be safe for the pensions. I hear some say that the pension reform is a ‘ran’. This kind of vulgar rhetoric and polemics I want to distance myself from. Tomorrow's pensioners will get more in retirement than anyone in the past, both from public welfare and through compulsory pensions in employment. There will be fewer minimum pensioners in the future. It is therefore extra hollow when the criticism comes from those in this room who initially want to make everyone the minimum pensioner, and who doesn't even know what level the minimum pension is to be put on. The pension reform is not a kutter form. If we had cut one-sided performances, I could understand such a claim. Our reform contains, on the contrary, many elements that, in isolation, help to increase benefits, or the cost of popular security. The reason why there is still a sustainable reform is that we focus on stimulating work. It is the carrot that is the main element of this reform, not the whip. As I said, the government has been committed to ensuring a broad political majority for a pension reform. It is necessary for individuals to feel the security of pensions during the changing political majority of the years to come. We cannot constantly change pension rules. There is every reason to give honor to the Workers' Party and the Centre for their participation to a good result. Let me put three lines under this honor, because it's not sure I'm going to repeat it so many times in time that comes. But it's honestly meant in this case. However, it is alarming that the Socialist Left Party separates teams with its possible future alliance partners in the socialist government option. In the Pension Commission, the party fully agreed that the current pension system had to change, based on the analysis that I have so far been involved in here and that goes back throughout the Government's pension notification. But when the time of action comes, the party runs from previous points of view and puts the sky notes on. It might not be surprising. The simple definition of populism is that when decisions are to be taken, people flee from responsibility and long-term responsibility. However, today's children and young people had reason, in my opinion, to wait more of a party – I am talking about the Socialist Left – which is constantly talking about our young people, i.e. the future. It's just these that will require us across party divisions to gather to make it possible to secure the pensions in the future. The representative of the SV Lighthouse was in a previous speech that the reform behind it by the majority in this Chamber involves privatisation. It's turning it all completely on its head. Then you use the wrong map, and you are not equipped with a compass. This debate is simply about how we are going to spend public money for the future security of a pension scheme. Should there be something that contributes to privatisation, there is SV's position. For those who are now saying wait with reform, there will be great uncertainty that in the future the public interest will ensure the security of pensions, and that will be the best basis for all the private companies that will sell their insurance products. There is nothing wrong with it, but creating such uncertainty and postponing possible decisions at least contributes to privatisation. The pension case enters into a wide range of issues where the socialist government option splits. We see the same in economic policy today. There is the Labour Party on the one hand and the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party on the other hand deeply disagree on both the rule of action and monetary policy. It is bold to create uncertainty about such fundamental issues, which are important for job security and for the individual's economy. The parties I mentioned also disagree on school policy, security policy, fiscal policy and the EEA Agreement. Disunity also appeared in this room two days ago, when the Stortinget debated something so important in principle and such an old case as the Finnland Act – old in the sense that it has been a debate topic for at least one generation and through many investigations. I look forward to the election campaign clarifying common policies in these and other areas. Among those who believe that pension reform is not needed now, it is often said that the forecasts are uncertain. At this point, I'm going to give them right. Of course, there is a lot of uncertainty about the future, otherwise it would have been history. But we certainly know that there are more people who are going to receive a pension, and relatively fewer who are going to pay the pensions. It's not uncertain. The longer one waits to do something, the more brutal the changes will have to be. The size of the population today gathers around the main principles of tomorrow's pensions. The government will now continue to work on the follow-up of the various parts. It is important that we today have managed to reach an agreement on the bottom plan. The important fundamental clarifications have taken place. It helps to provide security for pensions. On the specific follow-up, I would like to state the following: In order to follow up the decision that mandatory supplementary pension legislation will enter into force from 1 January 2006, an investigation mandate will be given to the Banking Law Commission tomorrow. Very short time limits are set for the investigation and subsequent consultation, and legislative proposals are proposed at the same time as the budget for the autumn. I will also have a meeting with the social partners tomorrow afternoon to inform them about this progress and to ensure that they are in agreement with the short consultation deadlines set for ensuring the progress of the case. I can inform you that the important social partners are also represented in the work of the Banking Law Commission and in this way will gain insight and influence on the matter even before the formal consultation round. Finally, let me also touch on a topic where serious accusations have been made against the Ministry of Finance in this debate. It is the Progress Party at the Chair of the Financial Committee that has informed that their representative in the Pension Commission has not been treated in the same way as other representatives by not having their alternative investigated. It's wrong. Everyone who has participated in the Pension Commission has had equal opportunities to explore their options, whether you have been in a majority or have not been in a majority. The one representative of the Socialist Left has, in an interesting way – not to go too far – been investigated. But then you'd have to figure it out. In the case of subsequent questions to the Ministry of Finance, it has also been given the impression that we did not want to answer questions. But I have to say that first you have to ask the questions, and you have to ask them in a way that makes it possible to answer. During this debate, the Progress Party has had four different definitions of the basis for its pension reform, i.e. the minimum pension. In the Commission, the party wrote that it would lie around at the level of the day. The setting has "something higher" than the current level. In the debate, the chairperson of the Financial Committee has said that it should be ‘considerably higher’ than today’s level. In today's newspaper the same representative says she can't say anything about the level. With such unclear views about my own model, I think any investigation will be impossible. First you have to know what you want, before you can see the consequences of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e816	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e819	I listened with great interest when the Minister of Finance in his intervention corrected the pension policy of the Progress Party. There are deliberations on the part of the Minister of Finance that I fully agree with. The Minister of Finance, if he is to continue as Minister of Finance after the elections, will be in a government based on his policy and government options, precisely on the support of the Advance Party here in Stortinget. I therefore assume that when the Minister of Finance today is very satisfied with the existence of a pension agreement, it is because he sees that there are parties other than his possible support party in a future government that have taken responsibility for a pension reform. So when the Minister of Finance suggested that there is a ambiguity and a rift between the parties in the government option on the left-hand side of pension issues, we have to be mildly able to say that the same is true of the government he is going to sit in. Can the Minister of Finance ensure that the agreement adopted today in the Grand Duchy is on a safe footing, even if a new bourgeois government is to borrow from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e828	I can, in the same way as the leader of the Workers' Party, assure that the government parties, including my own, are naturally on the reform and will continue it. I have just explained the follow-up as a first step that I myself will be responsible for promoting. And we're going to do that in the next run. But there's some difference here. Because, after what I understand, the Workers' Party will invite the largest, at least the hardest, opposition party to today's reform, SV, into the government, which has announced a rematch in the government on all the important points that are covered by the agreement, on the sharing rule, on the indexation and on the performance rules, the annual rule or the best-year rule. All of this will combat SV within the government. Maybe we won't know so much about that in case it should happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e835	I'm going to choose to rise above the grievances the Minister of Finance did to me. I want to ask him two very specific questions. Question 1: Does the Minister of Finance think that the agreement related to the AFP, as the AFP system appears today, will clearly be a positive contribution to the inclusive working life that we all want, to a working life that allows older workers to actually be able to work longer? Question 2: The Right Party and the Advance Party have long agreed on an important issue, namely to facilitate good framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises as well. How, then, can the Minister of Finance defend that this agreement now involves the implementation of a statutory occupational pension for all, without having thoroughly investigated it and without having seen the necessary boundaries in line with the warnings issued by many of the small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e844	The answer to question 1 is yes, within the framework of the agreement. Well, it's an agreement, it doesn't make sense to the Progress Party. This is not a decision taken by Stortinget, it is an agreement, where the state has a contribution. Then, in fact, I believe that what has been established in the agreement offers opportunities for improvement, but in consultation with the partners of the agreement. Question 2: Yes, it would be beneficial for small and medium-sized enterprises if they could also offer pension schemes in line with other enterprises. It is, at the firm's strong wish, that it is done, and I think it will be an advantage. If it also affects the formation of wages in the future, it won't surprise me. But there's a cost that has to be covered in some form. I did not argue with the committee's chairman. I criticized the Advancement Party. We need to distinguish between criticism on a political basis and hoarseness, or what it is now called. I believe, in fact, that the Progress Party is presenting a model which in essential areas will not contribute to future economic growth. And I'm not just taking the government's arguments for income for this, but I'm pointing out that everyone who gives us advice internationally – the OECD, the IMF, who often listens to the Progress Party – agrees with the Government that a pension reform is important for future economic growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e853	I don't understand where the finance minister gets it from, that SV just wants to let it scour and go. On the contrary, it is much more politically ambitious to leave the resilient sleep on the fact that people are at work than cutting flats, at a time when we already have 100,000 unemployed, 50,000 part-time workers who want to work more, 100,000 job seekers and over 300,000 unemployed, and only one third of those who are 67 today work. When we have such a challenge today, how will the Minister of Finance – and then we speak specifically – help to be involved in creating a working life that takes in not only all the ones I have now mentioned, but also the tens of thousands of new pensioners that the Minister of Finance offers an alternative to cutting, easy to work anymore? How will the Minister of Finance participate in creating such a working life? I don't understand how he's going to do it, when we see the proposal of the Working Environment Act that the Government has submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e860	The problem is that SV does not understand. SV's criticism is based on the fact that today's working life looks like this, and so it will be in 2050. But then the most basic reason for the pension reform, namely that the labour market will change, has not been read. We're becoming more retired – how many I'm going to talk about on behalf of is uncertain, but there are at least more pensioners of us – and the relationship between pensioners and professionals is dramatically changed during such a period, as has been changed from the 1967 reform up to now. In that case, the labour market also needs to change. This means that enterprises must change their attitudes towards older workers — well maintained — and one may already see certain trends in the value of older workers more than before. But this is no reason to postpone the reform. It's rather a good reason to do it now, so it's predictable, long-term, and you know what you're facing. What SV argues for is not only that you don't know whether demographic projections are correct, but it's also an argument that you want to make the theme a campaign theme and not make a very clear point in your program about what you want, as opposed to other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e867	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e870	It is always right to be careful and careful with the use of large words, but it is right to use the term ‘historical agreement’ for the agreement concluded between the Centre Party, the Workers’ Party and the Government Parties on a pension reform. This is because there are few other decisions that concern more people for years than the changes that have now been agreed upon by a majority in the Grand Duchy. Our starting point has always been that we believe that a pension reform has been right and necessary. There's two reasons for that. One is that the current pension scheme is unfair, contains many randomities and shortcomings that should be corrected. The second is that we believe it is important that we have a pension system that we can trust and that we can be sure that we can pay for in the future. Both reasons are important, and both are good arguments that today's system should be reformed. First a little bit about the injustices. There are injustices in today's system linked, inter alia, to: that there are too many who become minimum pensioners. There are many people — part-time, low-paid — who work for many years, pay social security contributions and yet end up as minimum pensioners. They get nothing left for everything they have paid for the social security system. The second is that 500,000–600,000 people have nothing in addition to social security, have no occupational pension, while a majority of employees have occupational pensions. A third injustice is that those who have had a long professional life receive a disproportionately poor pension because they do not receive a retirement benefit for the last years of their professional life. That's a result of today's best-year rule. These injustices and many other injustices are corrected by the pension settlement that has now been concluded. Among other things, it is related to: together with the introduction of a significantly better pension model at the bottom of the whole system. There will be significantly fewer minimum pensioners. There's more similarity between what you pay in and what you get back. It'll be a better social profile. Not least, there are many women who earn it because they are among those with low income and part-time work who will now receive supplementary pension, while in the past they ended up as minimum pensioners. There is also a clear gain in the model that we provide better value for care work, which will also serve many women. We're correcting the injustice associated with many people not having occupational pensions. Occupational pension is introduced as from 1 January. Perhaps the greatest injustice in the current pension system is corrected. Then we secure the occupational pension for public servants. Some respond to the fact that there are two thirds of final pay in public sector pensions. To that I would say that these are acquired rights over many years, and there are also rights in many private companies. In the private sector, we have someplace zero occupational pension, somewhere quite good occupational pension schemes. Those with the highest and best incomes in the private sector all have two thirds of the salary in retirement, so it is not an entirely unknown scheme for many of those who have criticised the public occupational pension schemes. That is why it is important to ensure these. We continue to have a contractual pension and are based on the agreements concluded between the social partners, which is important, not least for all those who work in burdensome occupations. The second reason we need reform is that we need a system that we can trust. Of course, it's never easy, always demanding, to justify reducing a growth, that someone should get something less than they were supposed to be. But we believe it is very important to do this type of reform, for several reasons. Reason No. 1 is that if we do not have a popular security we can trust, if there is legitimate doubt as to whether the state can stand by its obligations and the promises it makes in connection with the pension system, it will force, stimulate, and privatize. In that case, it would be right for all those who are concerned about keeping pension commitments to choose private solutions. This will lead to greater differences, more uncertainty and greater social differences in the pension system. So having a strong popular trust is a significant contribution to avoiding the privatisation of our pension schemes. The second reason why it's important to have a pension scheme that we're sure we can finance is, of course, that we don't just have to pay for pensions in the future, but we also have to pay for services. Looking forward to 2050 – seeing that the number of retirement pensioners will double, the cost of pensions will multiply, even with the proposed reforms that are now in place – I am much more concerned about whether we will have good enough services for the elderly than about the average purchasing power of the elderly. It's going to be poor older, it's going to be rich older, but on average, those who are old people in 2040 and 2050 will have a strong private purchasing power. The problem is, is there enough staff at the municipal hospital? Is it home-care? Is there a good enough home care system? Are municipal and public services good enough? We know that if there is strong private purchasing power and poor public services, there is one result, and that is that it forces a massive privatisation of the basic public welfare services in the care of the elderly. There is also a reason not to cut pensions, but to reduce growth somewhat to ensure that we have money in common to pay for public services. It may be the most important contribution to further development and security of the welfare society in the decades to come. That is also why the Labour Party has recommended this reform. All groups of pensioners are going to get more in retirement. No one's going to get any less. But some of those who wanted to get a lot more with today's arrangement, get a little less. Many of those with poor pensions get more. This applies not least to women and low wages without occupational retirement provision. Many of those who have the worst pension schemes today get more than with today's scheme. Some of those who would have had good pensions in 2050, still get good pensions, but a little bit less good pensions. To call it ran is the misuse of words. It's a wrong term that we're actually going to mobilise a lot of resources to fund the population in the years to come. But we also need to mobilise money, resources for care and services to further develop the welfare community. It's a prerequisite for the Workers' Party to recommend life expectancy adjustment, which is the most important simple step in limiting the growth of old-age pension expenditure, that we have a good early retirement scheme, that we have a system based on today's contractual pension. Then there is a good system that we already see used to a large extent by those groups that have the most burdensome professions. Retirement is better than many critics thought in the first place, it is just hitting those who have the most stressful professions. That's why there's a very close relationship between a 62-year-old contractual pension and the introduction of a living-age adjustment, because the two things are very close together. We are pleased that we reached a good agreement in the negotiations. We are pleased that we have an agreement that is in line with a unanimous national decision of the Labour Party on all essential points. The Labour Party is committed to the agreement on a pension reform, and it is fully in line with our unanimous national meeting decision. We will follow that agreement. Of course, one of the main objectives of the agreement has been to help create predictability in the pension system. We are committed to a socially fair, female-friendly pension reform, and believe that we have taken important steps and laid the foundations for it through the agreement with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e906	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e909	Let me first give tribute to Stoltenberg that the Workers' Party would support essential aspects of the Government's proposal for pension reform and enter into an agreement on a comprehensive reform. The pension settlement is one of several national settlements entered into during that period. National settlements are characterised by the fact that they include lots on both the right and the left of Norwegian policies. They create stability and predictability through changing governments. Stoltenberg has certainly thought well through the wisdom of letting the Socialist Left Party into any new government. But Stoltenberg also has to admit that it will not be the same basis for national settlements, as we know them, if you were to get a majority government after the next elections. My question to Stoltenberg relates to the agreement and the demands that have come from the Socialist Left Party. I ask Stoltenberg to confirm that if there were to be a socialist majority government after the elections, there will be no opening of SV's rematch or change in the pension reform as it is adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e921	It's always touching to hear when the Working Party and the Right give each other honor. It's always done with a desire to, or it's below that it's the ones that's been moving towards us, or we've been moving towards them. Anyway, it's a good deal and a good solution. We are committed to the pension reform agreement. It is an agreement that is in line with our unanimous national meeting decision, and we will follow that agreement. As I said, one of the purposes of the agreement is precisely to contribute to predictability. On the issue of national settlements, I agree that this is a national settlement. But I'm actually adding something extra to it. It is a broad party political settlement, because it is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the government parties that are in it. In addition, the largest employee organisations, not only LO, have supported the whole or at least the main elements of the reform. It gives it an extra solid anchor, by anchoring in the employee organisations as well. SV is I absolutely sure that can answer separately. What is the starting point, is that what we have now come up with, is in line with what SV agreed to recommend in the Pension Commission. All parties have adjusted since then, and SV has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e932	Low-wages with small opportunities for private pension savings, people in tough professions where long-term work is difficult, and people with low life expectancy are the losers in the pension reform proposed by the majority today. These are the ones that will be hit hardest by a system that provides lower pensions if you don't work anymore. There's an interesting article in today's newspaper, which says: ‘The so-called age adjustment... and the annual rule introduces a reverse Robin Hood principle. They take from the poor, and give to the rich." There is no one from SV who has written it, but former leader of the Arbeiderpartiet Reiulf Steen. He also writes: ‘The settlement is historic because the Workers’ Party for the first time since its formation has conducted a process that will extend the class divisions in our country.’ Does Jens Stoltenberg Reulf Steen not share the concerns of those who are not going to afford private pension savings?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e949	It's not always Reiulf Steen's completely right, and when it comes to his analysis of the pension reform, we have different perceptions of what are the actual conditions. The low-wages are the winners of the reform we are now implementing. First of all, it's because we have a model that has a very strong and good social profile, where those who have had low incomes get 10,000, 20,000, 30,000 more in annual retirement every year. It's at the bottom of the whole system. Secondly, it is because women, who have been losers, are becoming winners, because they are earning more money for care work, and because those with low incomes are getting more. The third is that now you get all your occupational pension. Those who have the worst pension schemes today, in the retail trade and in the hotel and restaurant industries, now have significant improvements in their pension schemes. And the last is this: the major poverty problems in Norway are alcohol, unemployment, lack of integration. The answer is services such as Norwegian training, labour market measures, drug care, psychiatry. We're going to make sure that there's room for that kind of service through this pension agreement, and that's the most important thing we do to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e960	I would like to ask Jens Stoltenberg if it is such that the compulsory occupational pension in its entirety is to be financed by the employees and companies. I have at least perceived it as not having been clarified any state grant for this. In other words, this is a pension scheme which companies have so far been free to enter into on a voluntary basis in the context of wage agreements between employees and management in the annual wage negotiations. Does Jens Stoltenberg fear the costs if this becomes a mandatory scheme? What will the costs be? And: Will many smaller companies be able to bear these costs? There may well be a reason why these schemes have not been voluntarily addressed. Now, in case you are forced to put in place such a system. There could be a lot of talk about it. We want to have this more figured out. Can Stoltenberg confirm that it is those who now receive a occupational pension, who themselves have to pay it, together with their company, in the form of increased costs for the company? What will the effect on jobs actually be of this, and does Jens Stoltenberg think that you will give up salary increases in order to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e969	Some of the interesting things about the pension debate we've had over the last few years – we've actually been going on for some years – is that the Progress Party is becoming more and more unclear about what they are actually for. It's e.g. not clear if the Progress Party is in favour of or against occupational retirement provision for all. The working party is for occupational retirement provision for all, and the minimum solution we recommend together with the government parties and the central party is that the employer pays is 2 pst. And we think that's perfectly sound. This is always the case, whether you're talking about a sick pay scheme or, for that matter, you're talking about the eight-hour working day, which we talked about almost 100 years ago, that someone is threatening that it will go beyond the workplace. But we actually have quite a lot of experience that there are many social systems, whether it's social security contributions to social security, health pay schemes or other schemes, that can be fully funded in a responsible way. And 2 pst. is a provision that I am absolutely certain is fully compatible with a responsible economic policy and a good development in the Norwegian economy. What threatens the Norwegian economy is not the two psts. to ensure occupational retirement provision for all, but that is the irresponsible economic policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e976	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e979	It's actually a historical dimension to the consensus that the majority of this room today is behind reforming and adapting the people's fears for the future. It is, as many people have been in, 40 years since the Great Britain adopted the guidelines and the main principles of popular security. It is a good thing that it is in an anniversary year that we are regulating the guidelines and the main principles of the new social security system. I am proud – it must be allowed to – that a majority is now further processing and complementing one of the most important security bases in Norwegian society. There is a good reform of the pension system that the majority are currently behind. It is a reform that creates security for future pensions and pensioners. It is a reform that stimulates work and thereby contributes to the sustainability of the pension system itself. And it is a reform that creates a more flexible pension system, a pension system more adapted to the needs of today's and tomorrow's workers, the labour market and individuals. There is also a necessary reform of the pension rules adopted today. If the majority had closed their eyes to the challenges faced by the pension system, the option would have been either to cut heavily in public welfare schemes or to significantly increase taxes. It's not roughness and care that characterizes the ostrich when it's standing with its head in the sand! The image of the ostrich may not be completely comprehensive in this context. It cannot be said that those who are now moving towards pension reform do not know what the consequences will be. Estimates from the Statistical Central Agency show that the current pension system is not sustainable. Had it been retained, public welfare services had to be tightened by under 80 to 90 billion DKK in the coming decades, or taxes on work had to be increased by about 13 pst. That is, the general tax rate on work would be over 40 pst. That means that someone who makes $300,000 would have to pay $40,000 more in increased taxes each year. Those who do not want to reform the pension system now are actually pushing a huge burden with open eyes on their children and grandchildren, and for me it is against all the values that make me a politically committed social person. As a conservative, I'm concerned that the society we're going to pass on to future generations is going to be as good as, yes, preferably better than, the society we once acquired. Then you don't push the load on your children and grandchildren! In the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, we clearly see that the consideration of future generations is subordinate to the self of the moment after the next press release. It shows how short populism meets the major and serious issues to be dealt with in this house, issues that extend beyond its own generation – the most important issues that this house deals with. I commend the Workers' Party and the Centre Party for choosing to secure a broad majority in order to further process and complement the popular fear of future generations. The broad agreement creates stability and predictability for the main principle of the pension system that we want to build in the coming years. Tonight, I'm going to press the green button in this house for the deal that we have with these parties. I'll do that with great joy. It also means that I can see the generations of the future in my eyes and be proud of what I've been through.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e998	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1001	I must first say that I fully agree with the importance that was underlined by the representative Oddvard Nilsen in relation to what the Stortinget is dealing with today and will vote on. An important principle of the pension reform is to have a system to stimulate employment and to pay for work. We want the individual to be able to stand longer in work together. Then we also have to facilitate it through an inclusive working life. The Labour Party believes that it must now also be a very high priority task in the future to work for the most inclusive working life. My question is: does the representative Nilsen and the Right agree? Can we also assume that the Right as a Party will put it working for an inclusive working life far up on its priority list?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1010	One of the most important things we can do to ensure that the welfare state is maintained in Norway, including a sustainable pension system, is that we make it interesting to be at work. There is no doubt that the labour resource we have exceeds – if I don't remember wrong – 15 times what we have on our Petroleum Fund. This means that it is incredibly important to encourage people to be at work, not just to be longer at work, but to be profitable for pensions and overall being in the workplace. In that case, it's quite clear that the right-hand side supports the line of work, as I think there's a broad majority in the back of this house. We have to do it to bear the welfare costs that we're all concerned about being there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1015	Of course, it is easy for those who are not affected by the savings in the pension system to talk about how well this agreement is. But I'll let that lie. It is said that public service pensions should be at the same level and as lucrative as in today's system. Nevertheless, you add up and say that you should have a savings for the public within this system of 20 pst. Then my question to the representative Oddvard Nilsen is: How is this happening together? Who is going to bear this extra cost and these reductions? Are there the people who only receive a pension for the people, the businesses that are now being charged for occupational retirement provision, or are there others who are going to take part in that bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1023	I could almost have said, 'It says a party that'll make us all the minimum pensioners!' The point is that it's like this that you've given and taken on different teams. That's the way it is. The point for me and the Right has been to ensure that this conciliation became as broad a political as possible. I am convinced that this is an important principle in itself. If this is to be sustainable, people should have confidence in it, it must also have a broad political anchor in the Stortinget. Everyone will get a higher pension in the long term, but we'll get a smaller growth than what's in today's pension system. I think we should be so honest to say that to make this sustainable, we have to take the grips that we've done here. We will also ensure pensions and security for the future. It has been the main principle of the Right and Government in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1030	I agree with the honourable Member that the most important thing is work. It's work that creates values. It is also what generates income that makes it possible to have a pension scheme. But the right pushes ahead, and the right does not want to decide, or refuse to realize, is that we have made a pension reform today for which Norwegian working life is not created. So there is no working life out there that is able to take on older workers who are going to work those extra years to get a full pension. Today there are almost no 67-year-olds in Norwegian working life. One third is about 67 years old. The rest has previously gone off on different schemes. My point and my challenge to the Right is: how can the Right be so deeply irresponsible and deeply unsocial that you push ahead with 100,000 unemployed, which you don't do anything about, 300,000 unemployed, who you don't do anything about, and many underemployed people that you don't do anything about? These have a reserve of labour that would have made our society more valuable, and not least it would have generated income that would have made the pension system more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1035	There's a difference between socialists and conservatives. There was a clear bid for this post from Djupedal. I'm busy with several things, but one thing at least, and that's that, first of all, there's going to be an even distribution between generations. That is, you have the task as a politician to ensure that the burdens that are in society are distributed so that future generations will have it as well as the representative Djupedal and me. This means that the whole pension reform aims at us today being responsible for making sure that we are creating a system that is sustainable over time, so that we, Djupedal and I, can sit in the rocking chair – maybe I was just before Djupedal – and see the grandchildren in my eyes and say yes, I got this country well, but the jam I delivered it from me at least as well as I got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1042	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1045	The population and the population pension that was adopted in 1967 has been changed several times over the past 35 years. The annual regulation has always been underregulated in relation to what was intended. So I don't think we have to think that what we're now agreeing on will be unaffected over the next 30 years. There have always been changes also in the existing system of popular protection. It has been based on the so-called ‘pay as you go’ principle that the annual income from the employer’s levy and annual social contribution income should cover current pension payments. It's never been fund-based, it's been the value creation of society that should be the basis of pensions all the time. This has also been discussed in the past, and the other parties have stuck to this principle. Let me first say, are the economic prospects for the country now much worse than they were 10 years ago, 15 years ago and 20 years ago, so that the need to save money on retirement is very great? The answer is no. The country's economic situation has never been as good as it is now. In the 1980s there was a total deficit in the state budget. Nevertheless, the pension scheme was maintained. So now Norway's economy is glittering, compared to other countries, and our current pension schemes are like this in the middle of the tree in European context. They are by no means as good as many boasts about, in relation to other countries, such as the United States. the lye neighboring country of our Sweden – lye compared to Norway, because we have approx. NOK 1 200 billion on the book, while the Swedes have NOK 1000 billion in government debt. Other European countries also have better pension schemes than us, and they have a current deficit in their government budget, while Norway had a surplus of DKK 169 billion in total in 2005 at the time of the adoption of the budget. The government's proposal in the revised national budget is to increase the surplus to NOK 229 billion. Some people talk about the return on the oil fund not being big enough to cover the pensions. I'm aware of that. But it has never been a question of stopping paying the usual social security contributions and employers' contributions. And if you look at the rate of return that's within the rule of action, and you just take it directly into the retirement plan, you have more than enough room to keep the current system. So I want to reject some of the main reasons that have been presented. For this reason, the Progress Party of the Pension Commission has also rejected the principle of modernized popular security. We've opened up to be part of adjustments in the existing popular security system, and that's what we're doing in supporting this with the split. Because it's a measurable fact that we live longer, and then it's natural that it also has consequences, that maybe we should also work a little bit longer before we retire. It's said that you have a bad economy in total in the state, and that that's the saving justification. And that's the reason for saving: you talk about different conditions and the need to save. Despite repeated questions, none of the conciliators are willing to say who is getting worse. When it comes to saving money, many people are getting worse compared to the people's protection system as it is today. So it's going to be a tightening up. We think you might soon be able to say who's getting a worse pension. But if it's such a bad economy that we have to save, as someone claims, why is it just the retirement pension to look at? I guess we can also look at any other government expenditure if it's going to be saved first because we have a bad economy. You can look at assistance, you can look at the disability benefit system – many people want to take advantage of their residual work capacity – and create a much better workline than what has been done so far. The large resource that we have in those who are disabled, who want to exploit their working capacity, can help to increase value creation. We know that luckily the sick leave is heading downwards. We have the whole agricultural policy. We have a huge bureaucracy in Norway where there is a lot of money to save. Why have you separated the age pension – a very important social system, which is supposed to provide security for everyone? So that's what you're going to use to reduce public spending in the next decades. We in the Progress Party have trouble seeing that. We see the sense of including this with the division into the existing system of popular security. Now there are at least some who have analysed and looked at the letter of 20 May sent from the Ministry of Finance to the SV big group. In an overview of the class struggle today, we have received some of the answer, which you do not really want to acknowledge. It's a comparison of the level of coverage with the final salary that you have in the current pension system, and what you'll get in 2050 with what's reconciled. If you have an income level of today's NOK 176 000, you currently have a coverage rate of 61 pst. Something is maintained and improved, to 61-62 pst. If you have a more normal income of NOK 265000, you currently have a coverage of 55 pst. It goes down to 49-50 pst. The vast majority of employees are in that group. Those who have NOK 353 000, i.e. slightly higher – not abnormally for some industrial workers, either – have a coverage rate of 52 pst today. and goes down 43-45 pst. There are most people in the middle, the large number of average incomes, who get reduced pension based on the equation. That's what the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Center Party have problems admitting. If we go all the way up to NOK 470,000, which someone would say is also not an abnormal income, even though it's getting smaller when we get there, there's a coverage rate today of 42 pst. It goes down to 39-41 pst. So it goes down as well. The same thing obviously applies if you go even further up. We also think you should be able to relate to that. We think it makes sense that people are trying to get an occupational pension scheme, but there has been full freedom for everyone to negotiate about it. There has been full freedom to say that we do not require much higher pay, but we require a occupational pension scheme. Many enterprises, especially the larger ones, have occupational pension schemes paid by enterprises, including, where appropriate, employees' contributions. I understand that those who have so far chosen not to have it and do not prioritize it will now be forced. We're here to investigate and evaluate it. It makes sense to get a thorough background for this. But the costs and effects are very, very uncertain. It shall be exciting to follow that process until the end of that year. So some words about AFP. The Progress Party has made it clear that we support the AFP, but we want the scheme to go back to what was the original reason, that there should be an opportunity for the struggling, those who are mentally and physically exhausted, to get rid of something before with satisfactory retirement. Many companies, employers, have used this scheme in manning situations, where older workers who have actually wanted to continue to work have been pressured out of the job, because the costs have been partly covered by the public sector. We believe that there has been an abuse of the AFP system, so we want it the way it was originally supposed to be. Then I want to say that when we look forward to it, the indexation, that the pensioners should not follow through the annual adjustments in the country's wage development, but constantly decline in relation to wage developments, a principle we are very disappointed with. We've always, throughout our time, struggled that pensioners should have the same percentage increase that applies to wage developments. We thought that we had done this a few years ago when it was decided by Stortinget that wage developments should be taken into account. Now it's not going to be like this in the future. So we in the Progress Party have stood firm on our positions. We have rejected the modernisation of popular peace. We have said that we want adjustments and changes to the current system of popular protection. Because we were denied an investigation into a completely different system, which also included a significant reduction in the employer's fee and the social security contributions to finance what was above the usual guarantee pension, something above the current minimum pension, we have said that we accept that we will have to choose the current system of social security with some adjustments, and we have accepted the split, and we will also accept points of care. But I am convinced that even though many outsiders sell this, the Storting has not finished the treatment of what is called the “pension reform”, which is a government saving of money, despite the fact that our economy has never been as good as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1068	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1071	The state of play of the Progress Party on pensions will result in a severe deterioration in popular security and will lead to a large increase in social inequalities for pensioners. There is much that is unclear in what they are proposing, but there is one thing that is quite clear, both in a clear decision on the party programme and in the suspension and the Pension Commission, and that is that the Progress Party believes that everyone should become a minimum pensioner. There are three reasons why that proposal is wrong: Reason one is that it means that hundreds of thousands of Norwegian pensioners are going to get significantly lower public pensions, significantly lower pensions. Just how much lower, we don't know, because the Progress Party doesn't dare say exactly what level, but it has to be significantly less than today's supplementary pension for very many pensioners. Point two is that there is a greater inequality because people are going to take care of themselves. We know that those who have the most money and resources will also arrange the best private pension insurance. And point three is that one removes all the connection between popular fear and work. Then, too, the motivation for work in the people’s security system is removed and the country’s economic carrying capacity is weakened. These are three good reasons why the Progress Party's proposal is a poor proposal, which means more inequality and poorer growth capacity in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1084	The Party of Progress has always stated that all acquired rights shall be maintained. We've also established that we want a different model, a model that makes people even more able to make choices on behalf of themselves, rather than that it's the politicians who have to decide over one. We have made it possible through – of course – a reduction in payments for everyone in relation to getting an additional pension, an occupational pension scheme, just as it is today. It's people who pay for their supplementary pension themselves. They themselves, together with their employer, pay for the supplementary pension, and all acquired rights must be preserved. Those who still want to have it like that, could also with our system just keep doing it. Jens Stoltenberg really assumes that people do not know and know their own best, and that it is best that he always decide over them. So in the case of good advice they have good pensions: Well, they always have, and they will always have, and especially when the government of Stoltenberg helped to approve in reality huge parachutes for those who had to end up in the management of Statoil. So here, Stoltenberg has nothing to do with it. I also believe his problem when he comes to us is that he has a bad conscience in relation to what Reulf Steen writes in the newspaper today, which is of course quite correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1091	The Progress Party has declared that they want to turn pension reform into an election campaign. It's getting exciting, because I expect the Progress Party will then market its alternative, and I'm looking forward to the election brochure from the Progress Party with the title "Minimum Pension for People Most". The representative Siv Jensen markets the model as a light-to-understood model. Then I expect the representative Hagen to be able to explain to the Norwegian people how a system that leads to a reduction in government spending here by 33 p.m., significantly more than the pension agreement adds, will not lead to a significant reduction in pensions for the most people. In the society of the Progress Party, security will be up to the individual’s ability to save or negotiate with his employer. This means that the civil servant will be able to do well in the future. But what about the craftsman who has a professional career in which a worker in seven different companies, in periods of work for himself, and several times is on leave? She will probably understand the pension system of the Progress Party, but she will not be able to easily live with it as a retired person.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1100	I had actually not expected this exemplary attitude from a Right-Representative, who presupposes that a craftsman is unable to think of himself, count himself and set himself up. Many of those mentioned here have acquired their own supplementary pension scheme in an insurance company, and we in the Progress Party have fought to make it much easier to move between different employers, but to keep the occupational pension schemes there. That's exactly what we've been trying to get, better opportunities. But this guardianship, that one is unable to care for one's own interests, may say a little more about the reason that the Right is also in agreement with the Labour Party and the Centre in a conciliation, where one also accepts to maintain the enormous bias that exists between all those in the private sector and the public sector, and where one is actually open to the conclusion that if in the future one reduces pension payments from the social security system, only all those who have occupational pension schemes in the private sector will be affected, while in the public sector one will have to be compensated automatically through a very favourable gross pension scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1105	Listening to Carl I. Hagen's contribution was, in fact, a strange experience, for here he rallied violently over the calculation presented in the class struggle today. That calculation is based on the effect of dividing and indexing, and where the all-considering portion of the cut is divided. So the effect that Hagen pointed to here is -- at least three-quarters of this cut -- the effect of dividing numbers, a very small part of this is the effect of indexing. After all, the Progress Party itself has voted in favour of the split, and when the Progress Party is now very much uplifted in this debate and has used strong words such as ‘ran’ and so on, one must wonder whether the Progress Party is not more good than anyone. That is what has emerged in this debate. Both Hagen and the representative Nesvik instead spoke as if the Progress Party has opposed the progress party of course. It's a demonstration of homeless opportunism. We're used to that, but it's worth reading the setting before you start these exercises.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1111	With regard to the viewpoints of opportunism, I understand that it comes from an expert in the field. We're in favour of the division because we're also in favour of a very active senior policy. We want to make it easier for the very many who want to continue working after they reach a retirement age to have access to it. Today, there are many obstacles to this because we have too bad a senior policy. I'm sure Kristin Halvorsen and I, who are going to discuss this in Klingenberg cinema at 1 p.m. 14 this afternoon, will agree that the need for a much better senior policy is present. Then people will be able to work a few years beyond retirement, and then they will have a pension as good as before. This is an objective thing that we humans live longer, and we're actually fresher too. It is quite natural that we then try to adjust, that we do not automatically get a longer retirement period, but get a longer working period. In fact, many in the Progress Party think it makes sense, and this is an objective thing. Now we know after this 6-hour day that the Socialist Left Party really doesn't like people working at all. I don't understand why you don't go down to a three-hour day instead of just 6 hours, because you don't like working!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1118	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1121	There's something incredibly impressive about Carl I. Hagen. When he is taken with his pants down and standing without as much as a fig leaf left, he still holds a peacock post, about tomorrow's pensioners. That kind of rudeness is very few of us others who dare to spend the day in the main hall. For Carl I. Hagen, it refers to calculations that are calculations of the Progress Party's own savings proposals in the pension reform, attacking them, and without thinking that he himself supports the same thing. I'll come back to it a little bit later. But first to some main points of what is adopted today. When the Pension Commission's investigation was presented, the vast majority, from the Workers' Party to the Right, went in for the modernised public interest that would mean that 70 pst. by women and 40 pst. of the men would have to take the greatest intrusions in the fear of the people. In particular, it was the low pay that was to be paid for them. Today, the Storting does not decide exactly what kind of pension reform to base, but three different alternatives lie there, and they are closer to what was SV's dissertation in the Pension Commission, the so-called universal popular security. We are proud that our member stood up for the low pay when that commission worked out its proposal. We believe that it has had a significant impact on what to the seventh and, lastly, is a fairer popular fear than the starting point. SV also supports the majority in terms of the views of the AFP, in terms of ensuring a public service pension and a gross scheme for it, and in terms of the statutory provision of services in the private sector. So to what we disagree about. Oddvard Nilsen swung to the really big heights in the hall here instead. He talked about our children and grandchildren who were now secure, and he talked to such a pathos that one who had recently entered the room, almost got the impression that now Oddvard Nilsen has made a big contribution even to tomorrow's pensioners. But it's not like that. Oddvard Nilsen is secure, and everyone who is over 39 years old is secure, without any restraints in his popular fear. It's our children and grandchildren who are going to be responsible for the tightening up that the Storting is adopting today. It's not unreasonable for people who are healthy and living anymore to work any longer. The problem is that the majority of people today adopt a life-adjusted pension, but not a life-adjusted pension. Because we have a working life where today half of the women between 65 and 67 are under-pensioners. They're out of work. There's no employer standing there and saying, "But come here, my girl, you're only 67 years old, stay until you're 68, 69, and 70, as the Minister of Finance might think. He has a vision of another working life in 2050, where there is room for people who are well over 70. Because that's the situation if they're going to get a full pension. Is it so that it is reasonable to believe that with the policy pursued by the Right with the support of the Progress Party for Norwegian working life, there will be several 67-year-olds in Norwegian working life in the future? No, it's not. All they are now implementing changes in the Labour Environment Act is moving towards the power of employers and not the power of employees. That's the main problem. If tomorrow's working life is such that you have to work 43 years and not 40 years to get a full pension, while we see no change in when older workers are out of work, tomorrow's pensioners, i.e. Our children and grandchildren, to have 66 pst. Coverage, but 50 pst. coverage, i.e. half of the income of the employee in 2050. That's what's the big paradox in this case. To take a last visit to Carl I. Hagen, I have to say that it's amazing that they allow themselves to talk about ransack, when they themselves commit gross ransack. Here it's not just an elephant in a glass shop we're witnessing. There's one that's tearing up the whole glassworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1140	The President must point out after this speech that the characteristic ‘powder insert’ is absolutely not a parliamentary expression. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1145	I want to grasp what Kristin Halvorsen focused on, the simple working life. SV acknowledges that we are facing major challenges with regard to the resilience of the pension system. This challenge will now be met by the majority. a pension scheme that stimulates employment. That's also what's in the split. Then SV says that we have a non-existent working life. But how will SV meet this challenge? Yes, they say that this should primarily meet with measures to get more people to work. Isn't there the same change in working life that we can so far stand together to fight for? The second is that when SV admits the economic challenge that lies here, does it not worry as much about how we should finance future service needs as the purchasing power of future pensioners is concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1159	Well, there's reason to be concerned about both tomorrow's pensions and tomorrow's work, not least the last. The big paradox with regard to split-rate decisions is that if you don't succeed in creating a different working life, where it's possible to work 43 years and not just 40 years for full-time retirement, people get involved in other social security schemes. Then this is a modest savings reform. Then the big difference is that people aren't going to have the right to an old age pension, but they want to have the right to some kind of social benefit for a living, and then it's the disability that sticks out instead. It's a counter-representation, and I assume that the Workers' Party also agrees that it exists, even if they conclude differently from us. The paradox you can also see is that life is a good one that is very divided. It distinguishes ten years of life between those who live in the inner east and those who live in the inner west. This pension reform means that part of those who are in the labour-intensive low-wage professions, and who live shorter, is involved in subsidising those who have less labour-intensive occupations and who live longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1166	SV is concerned with children and young people, and SV is concerned with the future and sustainability. That's good. But it is surprising that SV does not see that future pensions have both a payer and a recipient. Does SV not see that their plans will send the bill for future pensions to children and young people in the future? Isn't it much more solidarity that we add, so that everyone contributes more to the community by working something more, or doesn't SV believe that we can create a working life that is inclusive of seniors? Finally, today, the Workers' Party has said that they are also on the contract in any government cooperation with SV. Is it now that SV cancels the fight, or will SV create uncertainty about what any new government will do in the pension case?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1173	The replicator repeats a misunderstanding that has spread in many environments, namely that what is adopted today is something that today's generation and today's pensioners should refrain for the benefit of future generations. It's not like that. It's our children's and grandchildren' pensions we're discussing today. It's those who are under 40 years of age who are going to take these loads, and so there's questions about how they divide values between themselves in the future. What is adopted today, if it won't be possible to do any more work, is that pensioners in tomorrow's society can risk just getting 50 pst. of his salary in retirement, and not 66 pst., which we strive to secure now. So to the question of what happens after the election. What we are dealing with today is a big message, and there are many uncertainties in that big message. What's clear is the majority of the intrusions. There we disagree, and that is of course one of the issues that are important for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1180	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1183	The Christian People's Party wants a pension system that provides security, predictability, justice and a worthwhile life after an active life. A broad majority of the Grand Duchy is united in a new, secure and predictable pension system, and it is joyous. It makes a clear mark in the country's social policy history. Responsible political Norway is now at its best. Populism, party tactics and short-term considerations have been sidelined for accountability and constructive cooperation. The fact that the reform was achieved through a broad settlement will make the reform durable over a long period of time. The Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre have jointly designed a pension scheme that will provide people with security and predictability, regardless of any changing government options. The willingness to think in the long term is crucial to securing pensions. Pension rights are acquired throughout a lifetime of work and are paid over perhaps 20–30 years. We can't gamble with this kind of scheme in any other size choice. The SV’s proposal to assess the design of the pension scheme every 10 years would only create more unforeseeable and less secure future pensioners. The Workers' Party and the Centre Party shall be praised for joining the main features of the Government Parties' proposals and for demonstrating their willingness to work out common solutions. There is respect for the will to cooperate, not least in view of the fact that we are in an electoral year. I must be impressed over Kristin Halvorsen, as I heard her right now. After having the philanthropist Carl I. Hagen for irresponsibility, she goes and swings to large rhetorical heights, as if SV has in some way contributed to taking some responsibility in this important matter. In other key policy areas, such as environmental policy, the Swedish authorities are committed to ensuring sustainable development, but in terms of public security, the Swedish authorities ignore such principles. The party closes its eyes to the great need to reform the pension system. Instead, SV chooses to push the problem ahead – yes, they will leave the problem to future generations. SV therefore turns his own old slogan on his head: they put children and young people last. The SV and the Progress Party have found each other in a common fear of becoming unpopular, and that is disappointing. There are also ongoing proposals here in the Chamber today, proposals that have already been implemented in the pension reform. It's remarkable and revealing. Why does SV not join the pension agreement as well? But they're not willing to take that responsibility. The Christian People's Party wants strong Community solutions and safe welfare systems. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, it is a fundamental principle that the right to privacy should have a good social profile. I am pleased to note that the pension reform will ensure just a socially equitable profile of the future pension system. Firstly, the comparison implies an improvement in relation to the Pension Commission’s performance model proposal by providing higher earnings for those with low incomes. An occupational pension is also provided for all employees. This will not least benefit the employees of many so-called women's clubs. Furthermore, improved service provision is provided for those who have worked with care for, among other things. children, the elderly and the disabled at home. It is particularly important that care provision also has retroactive effect. At the same time, the AFP and a new flexible early retirement generation will provide security for the workers and provide greater opportunities to combine work and pensions than today. If the pension scheme can be called safe for all, it does not only require that the schemes have a device that is socially equitable. It is equally important that the pension system is sustainable in an economic sense and that it can survive economically in the long term. This is ensured by the Storting joining the Government's proposal to introduce splits, indexing and a stronger link between work and paid-out pensions. It is reassuring that there is such a broad consensus on a pension reform that has a good social profile and that will take care of both the retired and the in-worker. This is a security reform for future generations. I am glad that the bulk of the population has shown the necessary willingness to think exactly of those who come after us – generations that one day will have the same need for a safe pension as those who lived before them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1210	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1213	The functioning parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party was very concerned with this with a sustainable pension system. I totally agree with him that we should have. It must be durable, it must be robust, and people must be able to trust that it can give them security in the future. In order to achieve this, certain operations are referred to in the agreement that exist, but the most important thing is to secure money in the common fund to have operational and up-to-date public money in the future. I would like to ask the active parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party how he sees the great tax reliefs that the sitting government and the proclaimed, possibly bourgeois, cooperative government are now going to run on in the future. Is it not clear that tax revenue and the community have a bearing on the survival of the people’s fear?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1220	It is essential to ensure credible financing of the future pension system. This is done by a user of oil and gas business revenue, but it is also done by paying employees and employers in the form of employers' taxes and pension contributions. If we're going to be able to secure the income of the system, we need people working. The tax reliefs for which this government has gone for – 17 billion out of a total of 23 billion DKK – have helped to increase employment and thus increase the payment to just secure the funding of popular security.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1225	It is probably right to say that the Christian People's Party has had an economic policy that is very distant from the Christian People's Party which has traditionally stood for it. To the extent that they have had their own policies in the economic field, it has been the Right that has steered this policy altogether. It's quite right that the previous replicator said that they have given tax reliefs of NOK 23 billion a year, which if you don't do anything, over the next four years means a tax loss of NOK 100 billion. And then the Right is going to have a new $20 billion, which, if this government is allowed to continue, will mean a tax loss of 200 billion dollars over the next four years -- if the Right gets what they want, with the Christian People's Party on the purchase. It is clear that this is of great importance for the way in which it is possible to finance the welfare state of the future. I have to say it could be interesting to hear the Christian People's Party's reason for this. Does it really mean that, in the next period, tax relief should be granted to those who initially have the most, rather than securing the foundation of the welfare state and taking up the old age pension? Age pension is an important element and must be sustainable. After all, SEK 200 billion is all a lot of money, and so too, in the world of the Christian People's Party, I will assume.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1234	The economic policy pursued by this government is the result of a balanced agreement between the three government partners. We're fully behind it, because it's worked. It worked in relation to providing safety for jobs and developing new jobs. In other words, employment is increasing, and unemployment will fall as well. We have managed to get new optimism in Norwegian business. There seems to be no particular interest in SV. 12 billion of the 17 billion proposed by the Government in terms of business facilitation are also behind the Workers' Party. It is striking that SV here leads a rhetoric that makes the possibility and probability of a credibility in the economic policy of the Red Government option very unclear and very uncertain. Does SV really believe that the tax reliefs that have been implemented and that have contributed to increasing competitiveness in Norwegian business and boosting employment are now to be reversed? What is the economic policy of this new government option?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1241	I noticed that my line obviously hit a sore point, because this answer was not a response at all. I can take the reasoning very briefly. NOK 23 billion has been given in tax reliefs in this period. It's an annual tax relief. If this is going to continue to the next period, it will give you a tax loss of almost NOK 100 billion. So the right goes to the election of $20 billion. Let me say it's not going to be $20 billion, then, if this government keeps going, but it's going to be something close to it. That'll be reason to assume. This will be an annual tax loss that will be significant for the treasury. The reason why I ask this question is: What should you focus on? I agree that having a sustainable pension system is important. However, it is at least equally important to ensure the foundation of the welfare country through a fiscal financing that is the basis of the welfare country. That's why it's important to focus on it, and it's important to focus on the working life we're going to live on. What I want, and what SV has called for in this debate, is that we should have a broader focus not only on savings in popular security, but on what kind of working life we have, and on how we provide for the community and the co-financing of this. I noticed that Steensnæs skillfully avoided answering, so I give him a new chance in these two relationships: tax and how to create a human working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1254	The problem with SV's tax policy thinking is that a person carries a kind of one-sided expenditure item on all tax reductions. The relationship is that, through a sensible tax policy, we create a competitive business that enables us to create jobs and thus increase income. So there's an income page in relation to the costs that SV is so one-dimensional and one-sidedly focused on. It will then provide security for the pensions that Stortinget is currently engaged in. That's where the focus is now. And there this government has a good answer with its partners. It does not have an SV, and SV must then respond to how in the world they are going to finance that pension and provide security for a pension system that only has a cost page, by continuing a system that we do not see having sustainability, and where they will return to the Storting every 10 years to discuss whether this can continue. At least it creates little predictability. It creates uncertainty for workers and creates uncertainty for the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1261	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1264	The centre party is pleased that it has been possible to reach a broad agreement on the future pension scheme. We believe that there is a need for a long-term foundation for future pension schemes, and we get that through the treatment that we are witnessing today. It has been important that the elements and principles of a pension system have been grouped together in such a way that we can avoid changing it annually, or every ten years, for that matter. We are pleased that the conciliation is broad and that important social organisations support the reconciliation. On the part of the Central Party, we are convinced that the alternative to this kind of reform that we are witnessing today is to risk the whole population's peace of mind slowly, but surely confused. A settlement also involves compromises. One of the main issues of the Centre Party was that it should be possible to achieve a better balancing profile than the Government proposed in its Communication, and that workers with low incomes should come out better than the Government has proposed. It was possible to do that. Another main point for the Centre Party was to ensure that compulsory occupational retirement provision should not be introduced at the expense of employment and value creation, because it must be recognised that it is a challenge for many of the smallest enterprises that compulsory occupational retirement provision should now be introduced. The leadership of the agreement related to this is better than that of the Government's original proposal. When it is established in the pension agreement that the Government has to assess the economic consequences of compulsory occupational retirement provision for the smallest enterprises, the lot shall follow it. First of all, we would have liked the state to have contributed financially in a transitional phase, as was done at the time the AFP scheme was established. For the maritime operators, this is far better than the government's original proposal. They must be able to achieve greater tax similarity to the occupational pension scheme for workers. In particular, the deduction shall apply to contributions to taxable entrepreneurial income. These points are well in line with the wishes of the six organisations representing the maritime operators, and they will provide a good starting point for further legislative work on these issues. The centre party will follow up this as well in the further work. The centre party has entered into an agreement, and we stand by that agreement. We have no plans whatsoever to depart from an agreement we have signed, based on a long debate within the party and a clear decision at our national meeting. At the same time, there will be many individual aspects that need to be clarified in the further work, where there should be scope for a broad discussion between the different batches. But I have to say I was a little surprised at the rhetoric the Prime Minister uses in this matter. I had expected that the Prime Minister, after reaching such a broad pension settlement, would have used the opportunity to establish and build around the breadth of the deal. Instead, we feel that the Prime Minister makes it a rhetorical point, related to the different government options, and it is a prime minister who, in a possible new non-socialist government, is going to be totally dependent on the Progress Party, who is also not behind the pension settlement. I probably expected a different attitude. There's not much statesmanly about this. It's almost in line with the fact that the leadership of the Christian People's Party has decided to call the second government option the red option. It belongs preferably in forums other than the parliamentary leader and the Prime Minister. I share the view of those who today have said that a strong popular interest is a buffer against privatisation, and a buffer against major inequalities in the future in the case of the pension scheme. The new pension system does not in any way eliminate the challenges of the future working life that many have been faced with in this room today. This applies in particular to the situation of older workers. There is also a problem that the Centre Party is concerned about. We are concerned about their opportunities in the future working life, and we believe that this is a challenge we need to address. It is a debate that we need to address regardless of what pension reform we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1285	I think it is important to stress that there are two main reasons for reforming popular security. There is a need for changes in order to ensure a return to the population that has future economic sustainability. But at least as important it is to correct obvious injustices in today's popular fear. Ever since I joined the Social Committee, I have traveled around the country and attended a number of different meetings where there has often been a pension debate. Above all, I have met two kinds of human stories, one characterized by a 60-year-old woman. She was long at home and took care of the house, man and children in line with the spirit of the day. She had no education, but eventually got out of work. She has often worked at the store, at the local hotel or as a laundry assistant at school. She has not worked full time, and she has not worked for 40 years. But she has worked quite a lot and paid her social security tax in the belief that one day she would get it back in the form of a pension. Therefore, the day she understands that today's popular fear will make her the minimum pensioner. There is deep injustice. Time and again, I have therefore met the demand for a clearer relationship between the payment of the social security premium and the payment of the pension even for people who do not have 40 years of full time in the labour market that day they become pensioners. The second classical story can be illustrated by describing a man of the same age. He has worked as a carpenter at various local companies for 42 years. None of the companies has had a occupational pension scheme. Two conditions are experienced as very unfair for this man: first, that he who has worked in the private sector will get so much less in retirement than for example. the neighbour, who has had the same salary in his janitorial position in the municipality. The position in the municipality has, of course, guaranteed the neighbor a public service pension. Secondly, it seems very wrong that the joiner does not get 5 cents more in pension for the years he has worked after 40 years of earnings. He started early. He liked the job. But today's popular reputation doesn't pay him any homage if he's in work until he's 67. I am proud and happy that the majority today is agreeing to a new future pension system that will correct these obvious injustices. This has been the main issue of the Workers' Party, and it has been the main issue of the trade movement. Today, we have a full impact on our views. With the new system, the woman in my example will get an additional pension, which should really just be missing. She has paid into the system for several years; then she will have more out in retirement. All those in the private sector who have not had occupational retirement provision will now receive it. This has been a main requirement of the trade union movement, not least as the Joint Confederation has had this as the main theme of the last collective bargaining process. Today, through professional policy cooperation, the Joint Undertaking is being given a positive impact on its vision. And for the man in my example, the pension system will be such that every year counts – a system that stimulates work, but where a continuation of the AFP protects those who cannot stand for long. I am proud – and happy – of the result. I honestly and honestly believe that many everyday people in this country finally get a fairer pension system through today's pension settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1302	For nearly 40 years, popular fear has been the cornerstone of the Norwegian welfare society. It was established in 1967, proposed by the Borten government with Social Minister Egil Aarvik of the Christian People's Party at the head. A broad political majority then agreed on a general public welfare guarantee for the old-age pensioners. The leaders of the day understood that such a reform required a willingness to unite across political divisions. I am very pleased that a majority in the European Parliament has now shown the same willingness to find broad and coherent solutions to the main principles of a new pension system. It gives future pensioners security. Age pensions in the population are a support bar, and support bars in the welfare community must not be changed from one ageing period to another. It is important to have a predictable system, so that individuals can get an overview of their future pension and make their choices based on it. The majority of the size changes over time. Therefore, when designing the pension scheme, we need to think considerably longer than in the election campaigns in the autumn or in 2009. We must provide security for our children and grandchildren. Since the Socialist Left Party has announced a rematch, we should today be given a clarification as to whether we can risk any new government breaking up the pension agreement. If such preparation does not come, it has created an unfortunate uncertainty. This is – with the address of Marit Arnstad – not rhetoric, but on the contrary a desire to maximise the breadth and predictability of a new pension system, regardless of government options. The agreement creates security for a government pension scheme with a good social profile. Those who have had the lowest income through their professional career receive the highest pension in relation to previous income — as in today’s system. Security of pensions requires political stability around the main features of the system. But it also assumes that we know how to fund pensions. Young people should be sure that we do not push an ever-increasing pension bill unabated to them. Social security is a pillar of the welfare community. But welfare is also something more. Welfare is school, healthcare, care for the elderly, infrastructure and much more. Pension reform is also about ensuring that the community is able to give priority to these parts of the welfare society when the ageing wave becomes too full in the years after 2010. I am convinced that a wait and look-approach, as some have suggested, is in practice putting the interests of children and young people last. It is their well-being that is threatened in the event. Some have also been concerned that a reform that limits the growth of expenditure in the population will lead to the privatisation of the pension system. I do not agree with that. The safest strategy to privatise the pension system would have been to fail to do something. If we had continued today's system without any changes, a significant tightening of the public pension system would sooner or later have forced itself forward. Then those who could afford it would have provided for themselves through private pension schemes, while ordinary employees would have lost. Well-being is not financed by itself. We have to create incomes to spend on well-being. Therefore, well-being is also about value creation. One of the objectives of the pension reform is therefore to encourage people to stay longer in work. The government emphasises that changes in the legislation on public health are supported by measures to facilitate older workers to continue working until retirement. It will also be essential to increase employment and reduce social benefits in relation to other benefits from popular protection. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Government's aim is to ensure a decent living for those who, for serious reasons, cannot live in a normal professional life until retirement. This is precisely why it is important to encourage as much as possible participation in the labour market, so that the foundations of our social security network are strengthened. The pension agreement shows that the majority in the Grand Duchy has the ability and the will to think in the long term also in an election year. I hope and believe that the will to find sensible solutions will continue when the specific legislation is in place in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1327	I am pleased that the government parties showed compliance, and that it was possible to reach an agreement on future pensions. Of course, the Workers' Party will remain firm on the pension reform agreement. The agreement is fully in line with our unanimous country meeting decision, and we will follow up the agreement. One of the objectives of the agreement has just been to ensure predictability of the future pension system, and it is therefore good that there is a broad political agreement on the agreement. Another purpose of the pension reform is to ensure that we can have a pension system that we can trust, which we are sure we can finance in the future. Therefore, there is also agreement on some measures limiting the growth of expenditure. Does the Prime Minister see that there is a dilemma that the Government, while we are taking these measures, promises great new tax relief? That means that with one hand you tighten up, because you think you have problems financing the future's welfare, and with the other hand you hand out and make new promises of billions in reductions in the income of the community. There's a contradiction in that message, and I'm asking if the Prime Minister sees that contradiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1336	Let me also begin in a loving way and give tribute to the Workers' Party for contributing to a national pension settlement. It is reassuring that the Workers' Party will stand by it even after the election. But I hope that Stoltenberg succeeds in getting SV to say that they cancel the fight and build on what is now the majority in Stortinget, so that it does not become an uncertainty. Because there will be a rematch in any new government, which we hope we don't get, we don't know the outcome of that fight – a fight means fighting, then SV will fight, and then we don't know the outcome. Then to tax havens. What the government parties have said and promised together is that we should carry out the tax reform we have started. This is wise, including: for some of the richest, those with high dividends, to pay more taxes than today. We think it's wise for business to secure jobs. It can generate increased revenues and is not opposed to safeguarding well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1343	It was a bit touching to see this violent, sudden concern between Jens Stoltenberg and Kjell Magne Bondevik. I wonder how many hours it's going to last after today's debate is over – but it was a nice experience. It was a good and pleasant tone, which we might try to continue with in other forums where we meet. My question to the Prime Minister is why it should be the age pension, of the total government expenditure, which is going to be sustainable. In popular terms, there's a lot of other expenses. It's the sickness benefit scheme, it's the disability benefit scheme, it's the financing of some health costs, medical expenses. In total public expenditure, there is a lot of persistentness. If it is the case that the Prime Minister – despite Norway’s huge surplus, which we will be joining for many years to come – believes that there is a need to save, why is it precisely the old age pension, the old age pension scheme, which is separated from the very many public welfare schemes? Why haven't you looked at the whole thing and looked at whether there might be other places where it's more sensible and easier to reduce public expenditure?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1350	The old age pension, as you know, represents a very large proportion of the population's spending, and if you continue with today's system, there will be a severe imbalance between what is being paid and what is being taken out. With regard to other parts of Velferds-Norway that are financed by the population, we have regularly been through them. Sick pay, which is also a significant part, is fortunately on its way down now, because sick leave is falling. There's a catch, among other things. through the agreement on an inclusive working life. What's also important to be aware of when you talk about tightening your retirement pension is that the future pensioners do not get worse out than today's pensioners. On the contrary, they will have increased purchasing power in relation to what today's pensioners have. But the increase in purchasing power is going to be a little less than if we go on with today's rules. Trying to present this as if the future's pensioners are approaching poverty is completely wrong. They actually get it better than today's pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1357	This pension reform is, as I said, created for a working life that does not exist today. One of the main challenges is to ensure that people with a willingness to work and a desire to work are given the opportunity to work. The main challenge in this way is the 300,000 people who are out of the labour market and who have a disability. Let me just give you one example: half of all women between 65 and 67 are disabled today. Obviously, if you don't create a humane working life that is capable of accepting these adult workers, this will be a big bomb for the private economy of many of them. We've discussed that before today, so I'm not going to mention that. What might be interesting – because this is one of the big questions you push in front of you – is the whole question of disability. If it turns out that what is meant to be a saving in the population's security is piling out somewhere else, namely by the fact that there are more people who are dissatisfied because they avoid this savings, I would like to ask for a guarantee from the Prime Minister that this government has not intended to cut down on the disability benefit – to take in these costs that may be saved in the old age pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1364	The government has no plans to cut the disability. It is an important safety net for those who, for shorter or longer periods of their life, are unable to participate in the labour market. However, reforms have been made in the case of disability, among others. based on the Sandman Committee's setting, in order to be able to participate as much as possible in the labour market – there is no question about 100 pst. or 0 pst. As you know, a temporary disability-related scheme is also in place to test whether you can return to work. Otherwise I have to say that SV, who likes to say that they prioritise children and young people, has surprised me in this matter. This is really a matter of prioritising future generations, i.e. children and young people. It does not take co-responsibility for it. Together with the Progress Party, they have stood out in a populist way from a broad national settlement. And why would SV not cancel the fight, but, on the contrary, maintain an uncertainty, if there were to be a change of government, about whether the people's rights were to be guaranteed financially?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1371	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1374	The generation responsibility, our responsibility to give those who come after us, a least as good starting point as we ourselves have, is a fundamental value for the Right. The pension agreement will provide us with a more sustainable pension system, and the pension agreement is just one of several reforms, promoted and adopted during this ageing period, which will ensure a better distribution between generations. It is a strength for our political system that a few months before a elections – and with a growing oil fund – parties are able to reach a settlement. It is disappointing, but not particularly surprising that two parties, the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party, choose populism rather than take responsibility. Through the pension reform and other important reforms, we are in the process of doing what no country has done before us, namely managing a wealth of dimensions without destroying the economy, and to the joy of several generations. I believe that the parties that have contributed to the reforms have reason to be proud. Today, the Storting also decides that what we've been used to calling the Petroleum Fund, for the future is to be called the Pension Fund. It's important. It is important to realise that the use of oil money is not just about ensuring a good balance in the Norwegian economy and ensuring that we do not get too much pressure on both interest and price, but that it is also about the consideration of future generations and tomorrow's pensioners. There is reason to note that there is one party that is in favour of the Petroleum Fund becoming a pension fund. That's the party that's most happy to spend money on what we used to call the Petroleum Fund. It may be that it is somewhat more unpleasant to provide a pension fund than it is to provide a petroleum fund. But it will then be a reality that for the future, the parties that want to spend more oil money will provide themselves with the Pension Fund. Several newspapers have different variants of who is the architect behind the pension agreement – who has the credit? Is it the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, that have brought the matter before the Grand Council and provided a majority for the matter? Or is it, as some newspapers discuss, Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party, or Gerd Liv Valla and LO? I have to admit that this discussion reminds me a little about the family company where the person who has decorated the cake gets the full credit for the pastry. All the parties that have participated in the settlement have participated differently and contributed to what we might call a national settlement. I think it is important to stress that the national similarities, which include both the Right, the Centre and the Left, are of great importance in creating stability and predictability in key areas of society. It has been a matter of concern to the Right every year in the field of foreign and defence policy, we have been concerned about that in important areas of well-being, and we have several examples in this period of just securing this type of national settlement. I note that today the representative Stoltenberg has also underlined the value of such a national settlement. But then there is reason to ask the question whether it would have been equally likely that we would have reached such a national settlement if we had a majority government today. I don't think so. If after the election you get a majority government with three parties on the socialist side, I think it would have been less likely, even at the limit of the improbable, that it would have been possible to establish a national settlement that had covered both the left, the centre and the right. I believe that it is also one of the strengths of the minority government, namely that it provides a better basis for the kind of national settlement that we have come up with and adopts today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1389	Kåre Valebrock, on TV 2, who is also a writer in the Evening Post, summarised the outcome of the pension agreement as follows: If there is something too good to be true, it is usually so. And that is basically a good wording. Today, this debate has been more sober about what the pension reform actually is, than much of the public press debate that has been. It has been said by the majority, and confirmed repeatedly, that this is also about large savings in the pension. Some people call it a little less growth, but the reality is, of course, that many pensioners in the future will get a significantly lower pension than what you get today if you work the same number of years of work. There is an audacity in the debate that we appreciate, because there has also been SV's perspective in this. So, for a long time in the discussion about retirement, one pretended that this was a step forward, that it was kind of a completely necessary reform, and that the pensions were going to get better, as the case-law rapporteur, Heidi Larssen, said. Of course, that's not the case. Very many of us get a worse pension in the future, and I'm glad that many of us have confirmed it, because it gives a soberness in what you're actually talking about that is right. We have wanted this reform to be postponed primarily by the SV. It is not because we do not want a pension reform to be implemented, because there are many weaknesses in today's pension scheme that need to be reformed. However, there are three main reasons why we have considered this to be the case, and it is above all that the voters were not aware that such a large and comprehensive pension reform would be implemented during this ageing period. Some have called this the biggest welfare reform in many decades, and that is probably true. It would have been right to give voters a real power of influence in terms of what this should be like. The second relationship we believe to be a postponement is that the pension reform will have an impact many years in advance. It will affect the first in 2010 or around it, and it will eventually affect more. Only in 2050 will it be completely phased in. You don't have a hurry, do you? There is no real reason to rush this through a few weeks before the Stortinget splits – in a year that is a big choice. It may almost mean that some people think it is appropriate that this be done before the election, so you don't bother the voters with it. I think there has been a strong motivation, when many people have wanted this to be done first and foremost now. This has been important for SV to maintain. But we have thought that a pension reform was right, and we have thought that it was important for the voters to have their say – and to clarify our positions before that. The second perspective in which we have put this — which is important, and which has been absent in the debate on pension reform as such — is the society in which this pension reform is phased in. If you look at what we actually have, we see that it is not possible to accept this pension reform. This means that there are very many workers today who are not given the opportunity to work fully, simply because they are pushed out, either on their own initiative — by no longer being able to work — or by employers. You don't even have the opportunity to earn the full living in popular peace, not even with today's system. But there's the best-year rule, which takes into account that it's still possible to get a good pension. In the future system created here, that possibility will not exist. There will be a great many pensioners who have been proposed for a long professional life, but for various reasons they have not been able to do so. I think that'll be very heavy for many. Focusing on the type of work we have, and focusing on cooperation between the social partners and increasing and government on a wide range of measures that make it possible to have a longer professional life, will be necessary both for individuals and for society. But what we're recording is that the sitting government has no of these perspectives. The current government goes to the Progress Party to make changes to the Working Environment Act – to change everything that has to do with safety at work, to weaken the rights acquired by workers over many, many years. There is no reason to believe that this will lead to people staying longer in the labour market. On the contrary, this will lead to faster jumps for a few years – and then you will crash later. Many of us are able to run fast in working life for 25 years – most of us can do it with general good health. I'm going to be able to jump fast – and I've been running fast – for many years in the world of work. But if you've jumped fast enough, if you've worked a lot overtime, if you've had stress with kids – all that makes life complex when you're at the age I'm in – you'll at one time get banged. The perspective that is totally lacking in the debate on tightening up the pension is: How do we create a working life that allows people to actually use themselves – for their own benefit, for their families and for society – for longer than they can do today? This perspective is completely absent, which means that SV believes that you are going to headless tightening without looking at how to create a society and a working life that takes care of the individual better than you are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1406	Today, the government adopts a historical reform that ensures safe and fair pensions in the future. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the government parties were able to negotiate an agreement on a new robust and fair pension system – which has a good female profile and a good low pay profile. The working party was fully impressed by its four main requirements in these negotiations. First of all, people's fear should have a good social profile and a good women's profile. Secondly, it was important that everyone should receive occupational pension from 1 January 2006. Thirdly, public sector employees had to be guaranteed occupational pensions equivalent to two thirds of final salary. And fourth, the contractual pension scheme had to be continued. When we adopt these four fundamental principles, we have achieved a significant improvement in the future pension system. It's better than today's system. It's also better than what was presented to the Stortinget. With the new public interest, large groups of workers get a higher pension than they would get with today's system. Those who have had low incomes will have more to do with their service compared to today’s system. Fewer will be the minimum pensioner. Those who have had little or no income shall continue to receive a pension at the level of the minimum retirement age of the day. Caring shall provide service provision — while at the same time contributing to labour. Protective services are provided, and we're going to unearthed student service. In general, anyone who earns less than NOK 470,000 a year will be better off than today, if they work long enough to get full earnings. There are two good reasons why we need a pension reform. For the first time, today's system contains several injustices that it is important to correct. In addition, the current pension system is not sustainable in the long term. What we are about to adopt today is important for those who are young today. It is absolutely necessary for them to have a safe pension, that we take responsibility for it. At the same time, they will have a system that is fair and that helps to balance pay differentials. There will be major changes in the population composition in the future. While there were nearly four people in the labour force behind each pensioner in 1967, by 2050 there will be about one and a half active persons per person. retired. Several older people will need more care. They will need more expensive and advanced healthcare. At the same time, care for the elderly and pay for welfare services is less common. We need not only to secure pensions but also to be able to ensure other well-being for the future. In order to secure the economy of future pensions, the majority of people today are in favour of introducing a living-age adjustment in the population's population, which means that an increase in life expectancy will require a little longer work in the future to receive the same pension. The Workers' Party will both secure pensions and continue our entire welfare system for future generations. But then we have to make sure that more people can be at work – and thus contribute to the fissure layer we need. The working environment must enable people to stand longer in work — and thus also be allowed to contribute more. We need a working life that doesn't run out more and more. The new social security system will be based on the principle that it will pay off to work. There must therefore be a link between work throughout life and retirement benefits. Every year has to count. The second main reason why we need a pension reform is the injustices of today's system. I'll give you two examples. They have been mentioned before today, but they can be repeated. The first injustice is that low-paid and part-time workers with a long career actually end up as minimum pensioners today. It's going to be cleaned up. The second is that we have over 500,000 employees who only have a pension in place, who do not have an occupational pension, as the system is today. When we now adopt a compulsory occupational pension, we ensure a significant pension improvement for large groups of workers. Very many of them are women, who are just working in those sectors where you don't have such a pension today. Today's debate has made it quite clear that the Progress Party as the only party on the Stortinget wants everyone to be the minimum pensioner. It's actually also shown in the setting. They therefore account for a formidable cut in social security, and believe that people will have to rely on private pension insurance if they want to have a pension in addition to the minimum pension. At the same time, they will change today's AFP and are not willing to vote for occupational pensions for all. This is a policy that many, not all, should be happy not to be adopted. On the other hand, it is reassuring that a large majority of the Grand Duchy takes seriously the future pension challenge and adopts a safe, robust and equitable pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1430	In this debate, we can see that a broad majority here in the United Kingdom is behind one of the biggest and most important reforms in a long time. Only broad agreement across the lot boundaries can secure pensions. With this historical agreement, the age pension of the people's pension will continue as a public pension scheme with a good social profile and will continue to be the pillar of the welfare society. Pension reform will be the biggest welfare reform since the referendum was introduced in 1967. A long-term time perspective must also be used as a basis for a new system. It is important to ensure a predictable pension scheme for individuals and to avoid constant changes that over time lead to both complex and incomprehensible legislation. I would therefore like to join those who have given tribute to the political parties who have taken responsibility and have shown the will for a concerted compromise on such an important and difficult matter. It is all the more regrettable that the SV and the Progress Party will not deal so far with the obvious that we need to reform the age pension system of the population in order to maintain it as a good social system in the future. Without today's decision, we would have a system in which an ever-increasing pension bill was sent unabated to our children and young people, without questioning whether they were able to bear the obligations. With today’s decision, the burden becomes easier – and thus easier to carry. The opposite is that future pensioners can thus feel secure for their pensions. Today, important leadership is being given to how popular fear should look. Social security shall continue to have a good social profile, with a minimum level of today's minimum pension. All are guaranteed a minimum income in old age, regardless of previous income. At the same time, those who have had low incomes shall receive more for their service. So there will also be fewer minimum pensioners. The pension system is going to be fairer. All years of income shall provide service provision. Pension provision based on labour income throughout life will be an advantage for the labourers in society – those who start early in work and have had long professional careers. Work is the safest foundation for our well-being. Therefore, a pension scheme that rewards labour input to a greater extent than today strengthens the basis for good public welfare schemes. The service generation scheme for unremunerated care should be improved. In order to ensure a sustainable pension system, it is important to keep the birth rate up. It is agreed that persons who are at home, in whole or in part, for a period of their lives in order to carry out care tasks will receive good compensation for this in the pension scheme and better compensation than at present. At the same time, the current generation of care should be provided with retroactive effect for the year before 1992. Thus many of the women who were at home with their young children for a few decades will get the reward they deserve, for the important social work they did. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I would also like to follow up the majority's call to assess a more favourable generation of care points in today's popular fear, and to present it to the Stortinget. The lots have established a good basis for the design of a new age pension by means of the conciliation. I want to come back to Stortinget with a concrete proposal for a profit model. The choice of the model will also be important for other parts of the pension system to be investigated, including: disability pension, a general flexible retirement pension and the adaptation of public and private sector occupational pension schemes to the decisions on split and indexation. There shall be an early retirement scheme for all workers from 62 years of age. The system must be designed in such a way that continuing to work pays off. At the same time, there must be good opportunities to combine work and retirement. Greater flexibility for individuals to choose the retirement date and the degree of retirement is a major welfare gain. Agreements between social partners must be respected. The State’s financial contribution to the AFP scheme shall be continued. Any changes to the AFP mechanism could only take place after negotiations with the parties to the core tariff settlement in 2006. The government is working on a major report on senior policy. Efforts to raise the age of leaving become incomplete without an active policy for an inclusive working life and an active senior policy. At the centre of this work are measures to motivate older workers to continue working and employers to hire and retain older workers. As life expectancy changes in the population, it is natural that people also stand longer in the labour market. In line with the agreement, the government will set up a public body to assess the disability pension. An important question is how to adapt the disability pension to the leading majority of people's pensions for a future flexible age pension. We will also assess whether the disability pension will continue to be linked to the old-age pension legislation, or will be detached from this system. The intention of the disability pension scheme to ensure a decent life for persons who are unable to participate in the labour market due to disability shall be established. From 1 January onwards, a compulsory supplementary occupational pension will be established in employment. This will have a major impact on many women’s and low-paid workers who do not currently have such schemes. The decision will increase the pension level of many employees in the private sector and contribute to smaller differences in total pension payments in the future. The work on pension reform has now been ongoing for many years. The Pension Commission was established by the government of Stoltenberg in 2001. With today's decision, we have come a long way further, but there is still a great deal of practical work to be done to follow up today's delinquent treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1465	Facilitating a working life that includes all, and where everyone can contribute, should be a priority task for a Minister of Labour. After all, he also said that this situation with senior policy will have a significant impact. And that's important. Nevertheless, we know that many people are unable to live a long working life. Today it has been pointed out by many that life expectancy is unevenly distributed, that academics live up to ten years longer than unskilled and fishermen. It's also important for you to be able to get off in a worthy way. Does the Council not see that the agreement reached by the Government Party with the Labour Party and the Centre, that we should also have an AFP scheme in the future, is better than what the Government offered, that it should be optional for any time to go by, and that one could actually leave at less than the minimum pension? It would have created a very big inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1474	I share Frøiland's view of the importance of working hard with an inclusive working life. We see that our efforts in this area in the last few years have produced results, and we need to continue that cooperation and the efforts. The same applies to the need for an active senior policy, which I had in mind in my post. The government also agrees that it is important that those who want to leave earlier can do so in a neat and dignified way. The government has not entered to liquidate the AFP. We have opted for flexibility in relation to the possibility of early retirement, which I also understand lies in the agreement we have entered into. We have made some adjustments, and we are fully behind the agreement and will follow it up, as we have now designed it through work here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1483	This has been an interesting debate to follow. What's most special is that most people talk about it now is so very important to put in place a predictable system, a long-term system. And yes, it is. But what's strange is that one of the biggest parties in the coalition that's going to try to get to the government power of the harvest has already said they're going to rematch here. We'll see how it works. I want to grab one thing. You've tried on the part of the conciliators here to create the impression that everyone is going to get more, all pensioners are going to get better than today. Then it's strange to cut down on the public expenditure on pensions. So how to get this done, it's going to be very exciting to follow. My question to the Council of State is whether he can clarify the following: do future pensioners get a lower wage trend than the economically active? Are future pensioners developing lower purchasing power than are economically active?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1492	Some of the most revealing in this big debate has been the performance of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has achieved about the same time to adopt two different things: in the pension reform context of the Storting to go into small adjustments to today’s system and at the same time into its batch programme for equal pensions for all, that is, to make everyone the minimum pensioner. And it's not possible to talk away with the kind of rhetoric that Nesvik's representative is now using. The thing is, after the treatment here in Stortinget, we will have a pension scheme that means that all future pensioners will have their purchasing power improved. They get their purchasing power improved a little less than they would have if today's system had continued unchanged. But it's, with respect to reporting, no alternative, because it would be a system that would sooner or later have happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1499	Education is often said to have to pay off, and for Norway, it has long been a political goal for many to take on higher education and for many to spend a good number of years getting an education that the country can earn later. Nevertheless, the student's situation is one of the things that are unsolved in the agreement that has come from the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The question of student pension credits shall be further investigated. Nevertheless, we know a good deal about what some parties think about this. For the SV, we have programmed pension for students, but it is very unclear what a new civil government would think about this, if it is those who are responsible for the investigation. The right-hand side rejects it. The question is whether the Christian People's Party has any message for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1506	It's almost a touching performance when SV here shows their concern for the students and asks whether we can clarify something more about the reform further at that point. And it says a party that is unable to solve the most fundamental questions related to this reform, and that is willing to send today's youth, students and children into an uncertain future where you might want to make some adjustments every ten years. I have to say that there is one until blasphemy boundless boldness that is being shown here. We're going to follow what the Storting asked for at this point, which is an assessment of students' rights in the system, and we're going to do that with the positive basic attitude that we have to secure future generations. I think SV should be a little more concerned about how they should respond to children and young people to whom they want to send a solid pension bill by being passive at this crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1511	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1514	The new public interest adopted today is broadly anchored politically and nationally – by the fact that the trade union movement also supports the main principles of the reform. We get a pension scheme that is fairer than the old one, and that has a better social profile. The pensioners of the future are also guaranteed real growth in their pensions in the new population and the minimum pensioners are expected to have income developments in line with employees. Future generations of pensioners can look forward to good pensions and an economically safe retirement period. Equally important is the fact that their children can now avoid having a large, unbridled and unfunded bill in captivity. It's not about any headless cuts in the pensions, as Djupedal described it, but about dampening the growth. There is no armod waiting for future retirement generations. We're getting a new popular return that contributes to work, and it's work and value creation that carries well-being, both for those who are in work and for those who are retired. The Progress Party, together with SV, has been outside this national compromise. The Vice President of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, called the agreement a pensioner. She did not repeat this senseless claim from this pulpit, but it is as bad to bring it outside this hall, especially when representing a party that is in favour of a dramatic change and a weakening of popular security as income protection for the pensioner's life. The promotion party wants a public pension that makes everyone the minimum pensioner, and that an income insurance in relation to employee income is something that individuals should arrange for themselves, either by saving on their own or by arranging a occupational pension at work – if you can agree with the employer about it. If there is something for which strong words can be used in this context, there must be a pension scheme that deprives future generations of the security that lies in a social security with a good social profile and at a level that is proportionate to what has been saved. The representative, Siv Jensen, criticised the fact that one of the objectives of the new public interest is to curb the growth of total pension expenditure in the future. But the unsocial model of the Progress Party would mean a much larger cut not only in future expenses of popular security, but in the pension of the vast majority. In addition, the lot is behind – even in today’s setting – the most important measure to prevent future generations from getting an unmanageable pension bill in captivity, i.e. the introduction of the so-called split. Siv Jensen said in his post that the employees are not A4, therefore we cannot have an A4 pension system either. If there is any pension model that is A4, it's the Progress Party model, which makes everyone the minimum pensioner. But today it is not the party's own pension model Progress Party talking about most, and the reason is interesting. The popular fear model of the Progress Party is no longer to be talked about, because it is politically dead. Yes, that's right – and thank you for that. The party of progress is alone in wanting such unsocial popularism. But when has the fact that the Progress Party is alone on a proposal led the party to stop talking about it? Should the party be so realistically oriented that they followed this principle, they would not have much to talk about either. Now they turn their backs both on their own party program and on the new popular roots, and instead they want to patch up the old one. Out of that patch, there is a pension scheme that, in its basic structure, is as unfair as the current one, a system in which those who work part-time or have low income remain minimum pensioners and do not receive anything left for the extra they have paid, where people with equal income through their working life can end up with a wide range of pensions, because the best-year rule is to be maintained, where the possibility to retire from 62 years of age with a pension to live on is weakened, and where 500,000 to 600 000 workers are still at risk of unemployment. Finally, SV points out in a note that the Swedish Social Security Fund must continue to invest in the Nordic region, not just in Norway. There's no disagreement about that. The government also states in the communication on page 157 that a change in the name of the domestic part of the State pension fund does not imply any change in the fund’s ability to invest in the Nordic region. It also sees the Workers' Party as important, because it strengthens the fund's potential for return.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1535	As I mentioned earlier, this has been a strange debate, in which the government parties, the Labour Party and the Central Party clearly have a need to produce the reconciliation as historical and good. This is actually a little incomprehensible, all the time regulation of pensions in the future will be worse for those who are retired than for those who are in work. State Council Højbråten said instead in response to the undersigned, that yes, future pensioners will have a worse purchasing power development than if today's system had been continued. But it's not just that. In the future, there will also be a lower wage trend for those in work. It's a bigger problem for those who have now actually fallen outside or become pensioners. This cannot be explained out in the simple way that has been done here. Attempts are made to produce the Progress Party system as a minimum pension scheme. Well, it depends on what level you add to the system that is. But, as I said, it's not taken up again here, because it hasn't been a political majority to participate in discussing that model at all. We've had to accept that. What's going to be very strange is that you have to save 20 pst. public expenditure on pensions in the future, but nothing should be done about public service pensions. That is to say, the savings to be made are to be made exclusively by taking away from the people who have a social security connection to their pensions. This becomes a little bit weird, all the time we know how many hundreds of thousands of people work in public. But you've chosen to ignore that part of the equation that you've come up with. Another problem, which goes on what was one of the pillars of the new system, is: where does the simplification of the new pension system go? I can't see that the system that's set up today is going to give the big simplifications and something more predictability, so people are going to know what's coming at any time. Even if you say that you need to regulate down a system of both wage development and price development, I don't think the system makes it so much easier for those who become pensioners in the future. And in addition, you're going to start dealing with divisional numbers. I don't think there are any pensioners who are going to cheer and understand so much more of the pension scheme than what has actually been the case today. But what's special, of course, is this debate about everyone getting more, because it's not in the hope that everyone will get more, all the time to have a savings. But then, of course, you add: at least in relation to what you get today. In fact, social security is much more than the old-age pension itself. That debate has been chosen not to take place. That debate is disregarded. So you say you're just going to discuss the pension system, while this room has actually repeatedly brought new things into the people's security system, which in itself is taking up the people's money. Because that wasn't the point when people's fear was introduced, that you had to put in all the other things as well. It'll be interesting to follow the debate, and then we'll see how it goes. But the debate then went on where to make all the money. Well, we've also slowed down that money, but surely we lost it by adding a number of different tasks to the population's fear than it originally had. We can talk as much as we want about the system and try to make this a great system. It's an important system, and it's a very difficult system, it is, but we can't run from the fact that in the future pensioners get a lower wage development or purchasing power development than those who are at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1555	If a society is to have a viable economy, work must pay off. Therefore, we need a pension system that stimulates work, with a better relationship between work and retirement. With increasing life expectancy, a development with fewer and fewer working backgrounds for each pensioner and higher average pension benefits, we need to stimulate and facilitate the participation of more people in the labour market and further participate. The pension reform we are now adopting will be a clear incentive to get more people to work for a longer time. Here is the greatest savings in the reform, more than the proposal for indexing a continuous pension. More people in work increase the value creation and at the same time reduce the need for social security payments. But if we're going to achieve this goal, it's not enough with a pension reform that stimulates work, we need a working life that makes it possible to work any longer. This is a major challenge for the success of the pension reform. We have to stop the outburst from working life. Today, 700,000 people in working life are out of work for various reasons. Of these, 300,000 are illiterate. As there are increasing numbers of pensioners, it is obvious that we need to develop better schemes that make it possible to work even when employment opportunities are reduced. The IA agreements with the tools located there are good. We also see that sick leave goes down. But if it is to be possible for more people to be longer at work, we need a much more offensive senior policy. More research and testing is required to put in place the right measures, and it is not easy to have the right answers on what those measures should be. However, the right to re-training for the elderly, the further development of the IA agreements, the right to reduced working time and overall greater flexibility need to be assessed. The point is at least that the desire to stimulate older people to work can have a narrower impact if the labour market is not changed with a view to achieving this in practice. The pension system is designed to stimulate work, but at the same time does not prejudge those who have to retire before retirement and those who have a low income. These are mutually conflicting objectives, and therefore it becomes necessary to provide a pension system that takes this into account. In the majority's proposal for reform here today, one has done well. When the best-year rule, which otherwise turns out to be random and often unfair, is replaced by an annual rule, it will pay off to work longer. At the same time, there should be an early retirement scheme for all employees from 62 years of age, including those with low incomes – a scheme to build on the AFP scheme. In addition, a general flexible early retirement scheme is being pursued. When the annual rule is combined with pension incentives for care, compulsory protection, sickness and unemployment, including voluntary part-time work, and with proposals for student pension promotion, one here has managed to secure these conflicting objectives. The pension will safeguard the principle that is decisive for the Workers' Party. The guarantee pension guarantees a minimum pension of the current level for those who have suffered or no income. Those who have had low incomes have more to do with pension raising than with today’s system, so that fewer pensioners become the minimum pensioners. We get an old-age pension with a good social profile that helps to smooth out income differences. Nevertheless, it is claimed that we are sweeping hard questions under the carpet, among other things. Because we haven't decided a particular retirement model. But we've shown three models, all of which have a good social distribution profile, and all of which, after 43 years of even income, give 2-8 G, up to NOK 470,000, a higher pension than today's population. At the same time, it has been decided that the Government must design a pension model with a distribution profile that is close to the profile of these models. Therefore, this is not to push difficult things ahead of itself or under the carpet. That claim falls on its own grounds. When the agreements stipulate that all should receive a service pension and the gross public contribution scheme should be continued, this is a very good pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1572	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1575	Of course, although the majority of Stortinget refuses to say it directly, the new pension reform comes because in Norway we believe that pensioners cost too much. It in itself reveals a change of mind I cannot accept, either as a human being or as a politician. We in the Coastal Party respond to everything that has to do with security and that has to do with our stable Norwegian society being reformed. Our great heirloom, the eternal natural resources, we never considered selling when Norway was a poor country. Today, there is the policy of gangs. Our local hospitals were never assessed in periods when we had fewer public employees and were much poorer than we are now. Today they are to be laid down. The politicians who created the welfare state in 1967 had no idea what wealth we would have in this country in 2005. But the politicians of the day had backbone and manpower. They were adults, and they were responsible. They had visions of a better society. They wanted to create a welfare state. By this pension reform, I believe that the political majority of the Stortinget has lost its vision and has become paralysed in politics and care. I have a feeling that the bulk of the population have the same slogan as one of our big cheap food chains: ‘We make Norway cheaper.’ But what they sell is our credibility. It will be a very expensive policy. It is a policy I say no to, and that is why I am voting against the pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1591	Historical settlement is the retirement position described as: However, the angle of incidence of what lies in the historical context is somewhat different. The former leader of the Workers' Party, Reiulf Steen, has a description in the Newspaper today that I share far on the way. But now it's going to be said about the future that it's hard to predict, and a lot can take a different shape and direction than what I think today, or what the Ministry of Finance is using today. The fact that there is a broad alliance behind the decision taken today does not necessarily prevent a broad alliance, perhaps the same, from making adjustments along the way when the future development of society actually takes place, and when one sees the actual effect of the decision being taken. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the people's fear of 1967 was unanimously adopted. However, this has not prevented the Storting from changing on several occasions the basic premises that were then laid down, among other things. in the event of a reduction in the possible retirement age from 70 to 67 years, and later an opportunity for many to retire at 62 years through a contractual pension, despite an increase in life expectancy during the same period. A significant premise for today's settlement is that we should get a fairer pension scheme – fair in the sense that women, the labour force and the low pay should get better out. When measuring the impact of a new pension reform against these premises, it is not given that an annual rule, even with adjustments for some groups, and the proposed life-year rule will demonstrate the achievement of that description of justice. In Oslo, men live on the winner ten years longer than men on Rome sauces and in Old Oslo. Those who die early are the laborers and the low pay. The fact that the average population lives longer does not necessarily help them to improve their age. I take note that the Storting will join the setting that exists, but I would like to stress the importance of continuously assessing the impact of the decision that is being taken, and measure it against the fairness premises that are also the basis for the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1606	The government’s proposal for pension reform has ‘pension security’ as a sub-title. It is security that we create when we implement a pension reform. When we live longer and work shorter, it becomes less and less active per person. retired. Even if we can't predict the future, we know that this will happen. My starting point is that we have to create a system that can be stable over time. I hope and believe that with this historic decision here in Stortinget today, we have found a scheme that ensures that the burdens are evenly distributed between generations. Today's popular fear has no mechanism for this. This means that if we continue the same course of action, the economically active will have to bear the burden when the proportion of pensioners increases in relation to those who are economically active. Many have argued against replacing the year-end rule with an annual rule. Simplification can be said that today's system adds that women with a long career and low pay lose relative to men with short careers and high wages. In addition, women have often cared for children, homes and homes and are therefore overrepresented among the minimum pensioners. Fortunately, female participation is high in Norway compared to other countries, and I think it is going to increase. For example, women are overrepresented in higher education. Figures from the SSB show that participation in employment is increasing with increasing educational levels, and this will ensure better pensions for women in the future. Part-time workers, usually women, will, with the model of the contracting parties, be better out of the future pension scheme than with the current pension scheme. Persons with a steady income of between 4 and 5 G for 40 years shall not have a pension lower than they would have had today's social security. In addition, care provision shall provide a minimum service of 4,5 G. Care should be paid. This has been one of the hearts of the Christian People's Party for many years. The rules shall have retroactive effect and not only apply in the new social security system. This decision may help to ensure that today’s best morning is not a minimum pensioner, which they become with today’s system. The Christian People's Party also wants the value of pension rights to be counted in case of divorce. Here the government will find rules that take into account the party that has had the lowest income, and in most cases this is the woman. In the end, I would like to thank the parties to the agreement who have worked purposefully and actively to reach the agreement that exists. I can now see my grandchildren and sisters in my eyes and know that I did what I could to give them a safe future and a secure old age.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1625	The increase is today to adopt a pension reform that will fit into a new era, including: with a constantly changing labour market. It should be adapted to a society where women and men will be more and more equal to work patterns, but where part-time workers are not to be punished because of care tasks. In particular, it is important for us to take into account that women often have a very labour-intensive professional life. For the Left, it has also been very central to establish an occupational pension for the private sector, not only in the interests of individual workers, but also in the interests of the competitiveness of the private sector, in the competition for skilled workers. It is an important reform that we are adopting today – with great perspectives. Over the 1900s, Norway went from being a very poor country to becoming a welfare country. The left has a proud story to look back on. With the Castberg Children's Elves of 1915 and the Health Insurance Act of 1909, important rights were confirmed. When popular fear was adopted in this Chamber in 1966, Halfdan Hegtun was the case rapporteur and spoke warmly of social awareness and practical social solidarity. It was a long way to go. The left model was chosen in 1966. That's what history commits. The left has the tradition of taking part in the front when it comes to major social reform processes and finding good and collective solutions. The welfare society has long been a political community in Norway, and all responsible parties have a common desire to further develop and ensure the sustainability of the welfare society. We are taking together the difficult but necessary reforms. We all take responsibility. We dare to make some unpopular decisions, because we think long-term and responsible. It's about political leadership. Today's broad consensus on pensions is important for the sustainability of the welfare society for many years to come, and the Left is very pleased with this reconciliation. The fact that the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party choose to sit outside on this matter is typical of the role of these parties in Norwegian politics, as they have chosen it. Populist fries for short-sightedness and self-interest today are well known to us. It is always easy to find points of attack in a demanding reform, but the whole, the long-term and the responsibility is what sustains well-being. May Britt Vihovde called the positions of these two parties a "generationan," and I would like to repeat that. It is striking that the socialists' criticism of tightening up future pension expenditures is meeting with demands that expenditure instead be financed with increased taxes. The point is that we are going to be able to adopt today's big bonds with huge tax burdens for our children and grandchildren. Our successors may also need some economic and political freedom of action. In the view of the Left, the behaviour of the SV and the Advance Party is today just a further emphasis on the fact that these parties are not matured for government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1634	The last article was relatively indicative of the way in which a number of representatives of the bourgeois parties have spoken today, which means that what is being adopted today is still being presented as a generation-to-generation distribution reform, almost as a kind of act of solidarity from today's middle-aged and older age towards future pensioners. That's wrong! What we are adopting today is leading the way in which future workers and pensioners share the burden. This means that there is no ‘generational’, or that some people stick their heads in the sand, but some of us do not want us today to lay strong political leadership in how to solve these challenges in the future. What is actually being done today is to make strong commitments to the type of policy to be pursued in Norway and to the policy responses to this generational challenge. So it's not like we just cut as an alternative. The most important option is to do something about the working life that pushes hundreds of thousands of people beyond the sideline and makes us first get huge social security costs and secondly not get the benefit of the work that these people could do to our society. That's what's our option, and that's what's the great opportunity to fund the pension challenge without going to a drastic cut in people's future pension. But instead, the majority will decide this now, and not even today's voters will be consulted. That is the democratic problem of the pension proposal for which the majority is in favour today. In addition, we have the problems of distribution policy, by cutting everyone. No one serves this reform, but people have different opportunities to wear the cuts. We're going to experience new class distinctions among tomorrow's pensioners, based on who can afford private pension savings, which occupations allow for long-term employment, and not least which groups have the longest life expectancy. The social challenge that lies here has been addressed today by very few of the majority. Those who really have reason to rejoice, I think, are not primarily pensioners of tomorrow, but the financial industry, which will have a much greater share of the responsibility for managing pension savings in the future. That's why we don't stick our head in the sand today. We have never denied the challenges facing the pension system, but we have said that this reform does not solve these challenges. So I just want to point out one thing: it's a little unorthodox voting order we're facing today, which makes it difficult for SV to vote for the single elements in the setting that we're actually in favour of. I just want to stress that it is of course that what we are in favour of in our remarks is on the sidelines, although we are voting against the whole of the majority's proposal. This applies, for example: the points on student and compulsory pension credits.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1649	Today's debate has confirmed that there is no alternative to the agreement currently in place by the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Government Party. The party of progress does not even see the need for a new people's security that is resilient, there it is only doing and running. They argue that they have not been given any help at all, but they do not even defend that everyone should become a minimum pensioner. At least I expected them to defend their own model. There are many challenges in the world of work today, and we need to solve them elsewhere than in the future pension system. There are very important things SV has pointed out today, that working life should be more inclusive, and more people have to come into the labour market. But it's not the future pension system that can solve it, there's other places we have to solve it. Today's decision gives us a better pension system, which is fairer than what we have today. We get a good social profile for the low pay, especially for women. We're going to continue today's AFP system, we're going to be legally entitled to a service pension for everyone, and we're going to get a service pension for those added to the public sector that equals two-thirds of their final salary. There are a lot of good things that are being changed with the decision today. Then the pension scheme must be resilient over time, conservatively. There will be less growth in pensions for a part in the future, but that there will be growth and increased purchasing power for pensioners, there is no doubt. So this decision that's being made is going to be very good. Finally, when it comes to voting, we will vote in favour of the vote and against the previous proposals from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1660	Interestingly, the parties that have entered into the conciliation have either been in or are in government, while the parties that have not had government responsibility are not in it. They probably haven't learned that taking responsibility is making compromises, where you have to give and take – that's the opposite of being a populist. It is not right, as Siv Jensen said earlier in the debate, that they were not invited to talks. Both the SV and the Progress Party were invited, but when you stand as far away from the conciliators as SV and the Progress Party do, we all agreed that there was no reason to spend a lot of time on it. Populist parties will often only be on the expenditure side, but rarely on the income side, as at present. Populists are often a little cowardly. I think it's cowardly of SV that they say they see the challenges with the pension system, but not now saying that you should introduce a division that strikes if your life expectancy increases more. They think it would have been better to create insecurity by saying that, if necessary, we should change the pension system every ten years — it creates real insecurity. Then probably Kristin Halvorsen was injured to wish Oddvard Nilsen a little early death here from the pulpit instead. Because I really hope that Oddvard Nilsen lives after 2010, so that he will personally contribute a little to the sustainability of the pension system by re-indexing his pension. Because from 2010, all of us who have more than a minimum pension have to contribute a little bit. So we're going to get a little bit less increase in the pension than we would otherwise get. I also think it is a bit cowardly of the Progress Party to want to make everyone the minimum pensioner without completely wiping it out, while they will spend the pension money as fast as possible by taking money from today's oil fund, tomorrow's pension fund, at a fast pace. Fortunately, the majority takes responsibility. The government parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre have made a settlement where we give and take, and where both the expenditure side and the income side are included. The most important thing for the Right and Government parties has been to have a future pension system that is sustainable, safer and stimulates employment by increasing the correlation between labour income and pensions than today and a pension system that is better adapted to tomorrow's labour market. We've made that clear, and we're proud of that. So to the vote: I have to do what Ranveig Frøiland did, and encourage our people to vote for the majority position and against the simple proposals that are in the vote, or that are put here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1675	The President would point out that it must be assumed that it is outside the remit of the Grand Duchy to adopt the time of future death announcements, both for one and for the other. There are probably higher agencies that decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1679	What seems to be largely a general objective of the pension agreement that will be adopted today is financial constraints and lower expenditure on government pension expenditure over the next ten years. When it is at the bottom, it may not be possible for all groups to benefit from the new pension scheme. Financial constraints and reduced pension costs have to be paid by some. For me, it is impossible to see it in any other way than that those who first have to pay this price are people and groups who already have a weak position in the labour market and in the labour market, and who already have the lowest level of economic and social protection. One of the main problems with the pension settlement concluded between the government parties and the Workers' Party and the Centre is that it is created for a non-existent working life. For what is the picture of working life in today's Norway? Nearly 320,000 people are dissatisfactioned. Tens of thousands of these people have a desire to use their resources and their labour force in the workplace, but they meet a working life both in private and increasingly in the public sector that only has room for those who can provide 100 pst. effort every day, year after year. As a result, many people are pushed out in search reports and incapacitation. And in this situation of adding up to a pension system that requires far more people to be active in full-time jobs a lot longer than today, in reality means that those who are hardest hit by the savings on which they are based are all the hundreds of thousands who are unable to do this, and who will be pushed out of work, even in the future. It can only be characterized by one word: unsocial. Then everyone will be able to share the pious wish that the working life needs to be put much better at ease in order to have room for everyone. It is agreed upon by the Swedish authorities. But very little indicates that it is going to happen significantly. In fact, the positive sign is that the IA agreement is starting to work, in the sense that sick leave is going down happily enough. However, the number of disabled people, for example, was low. does not show the same descent. In addition, many of the parties that today create a pension scheme that requires a working life where everyone can be able to stand in work longer than today, shrink back and completely reject proposals, thoughts, ideas and schemes that can actually help more people to endure longer in the workplace, for example. shorter working time tests, for which SV and also LO enter in the case of a 6-hour trial. Therefore, it will be important for SV in the future, including in a possible government, to fight for a pension scheme that is both adapted to the conditions in which they are actually in the labour market and is such that it is not the ones that are being pushed out, which should be the major losses in the pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-26.ana.ud1078e1688	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox There are still 5 minutes left of the scheduled time for the morning meeting, but the President is inclined to believe that the Storting may, after this effort, deserve to end the meeting a few minutes before the time, rather than start the debate on a new matter. [[Fotation, see page 2403]] The President therefore allows himself to cancel the meeting now. We'll set a new meeting at 0 p.m. 18 and then begins on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
