ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e29	On 16 January 2004, the Government presented the St.meld. No 21 for 2003-2004, Foreign governance. The background of the message was, among other things, the desire for better consistency between policy objectives and priorities and practices in foreign affairs. It is based in St.meld. No 21 that the Stortinget is dealing today with the existing legislative amendments. I first want to explain the content of the matter. Firstly, it is proposed that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs should have access to give general instructions on interpretation of the law and the exercise of discretion to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry proposes that the same should apply to police, foreign stations and others when exercising powers under the Foreign Affairs Act. Secondly, it is proposed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should have access to the UDI's positive decision for consideration. Positive decisions shall mean decisions which are favourable to the applicant. Thirdly, it is proposed that the Ministry have access to bring the issue of the validity of UNE’s positive decision before the Court of Justice. It is also proposed that the King of the Council of State should be the Board of Appeal on matters relating to the security of the State and foreign policy matters. It is also proposed to establish a major topic as an alternative treatment in the UN. The annual target period for the UN negotiators is proposed to be extended to eight years, without the possibility of re-appointment. The Ministry's proposal for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act also includes proposals for granting the foreigner free legal advice without any need-to-be review where the Department brings UDI's positive decision to the UN, and free trial without need-to-be review where the Department brings UNE's positive decision to court. The Ministry proposes that Law 13 June 1980 No. 35 on freedom to provide legal aid is amended so that in these cases the right to free legal advice and the free conduct of proceedings is provided for by this Act. Today’s legislation does not provide for instructions, except in matters of national security or foreign policy. Governments and politicians in general have been deterred from instructing on the content and assessments of individual cases. The first paragraph of Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act states that the Ministry cannot instruct the interpretation of law, the exercise of judgement or the determination of individual cases, except, as mentioned above, in matters involving the security of the State or foreign policy considerations. This has been the case since 2001. However, experience suggests that on some occasions there may be a need to find faster and better management tools, and the Right therefore welcomes the changes that are now being proposed. The points of view of this are somewhat different in the committee, but I expect the parties themselves to explain their respective positions. The issues dealt with under the Foreign Affairs Act are very complex and, of course, have very serious consequences for those involved. Decisions are taken after careful and individual examination of each application, but there may be a need to ensure that practices are consistent with policy objectives and priorities. The right is behind the Ministry's proposal, but states that it is possible for the Ministry to instruct the first instance not to render legislative and regulatory work superfluous. Changing the law or creating new regulations is a time-consuming process, and we believe, as I said, that there is a need for faster and better governance tools. In addition, there is a problem that rule change comes after and cannot correct in practice that is unfortunate in specific cases. On the other hand, one should not forget that this commanding authority will also lead to increased political pressure on each of us. At the same time, however, political responsibility will become more clear. However, it is important to clarify that the procedure for dealing with individual cases remains outside the ministry. I have to say that I meet the arguments of the SV and the Center Party. From these parties, proposals have been made for changes in foreign practice to take place through legislative and regulatory changes. At the same time, it is mainly these parties that face many individual issues. I can only refer to today's debate in Stortinget when I wonder about the coherence of these parties' policies in this area. Although a majority today provides for the right of instruction, it is important to clarify that the instructions must comply with the law. This sets clear limits on the practical changes that can be made by instruction. So there will still be a need for both legislative and regulatory changes. The Government is following up the proposal of the Evaluation Committee to establish a major issue. The right and the rest of the committee support this proposal, because it will ensure a greater degree of equality of practice and non-discrimination in the administration of foreigners than we have today. The task of the respondent shall be to deal with UDI’s decisions when they are of a principle or are of particular importance for other reasons. Today, there is no system to ensure equal treatment in UDI and UNE. This may lead to different practices and wrong decisions involving applicants. A great deal will ensure equal treatment by ensuring that decisions in the grand jury will create precedent. The primary function of the report will be to adjust and clarify practices, and it will not review decisions already taken in UNE, but will adopt initial decisions. Treatment in major subjects should replace and not be in addition to other forms of treatment. This is important in relation to efficiency and cleanliness. When this major event is set up, the current coordination committee will be set up. I address the proposal that the Right and Christian People's Party has promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e65	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e68	The size is treated for approx. a year ago St.meld. No 21 for 2003–04, where governance changes were made. The decisions were taken in the light of the experience of the new organisation carried out in 2001, which had worked for three years and had been evaluated. Today we are dealing with the changes in the laws. The working party considers that it is important that the proceedings relating to individual cases remain outside the ministry and are in favour of it. At the same time, however, we agree that it is also important to clarify political responsibility and that there is consistency between policy objectives and the practice of the Foreign Affairs Act. Governing through laws and regulations is a time-consuming process, which does not take into account sudden changes. In the field of immigration, everyone knows that things can happen quickly. This may lead to long and unacceptable changes in some cases. Therefore, the Workers' Party is in favour of UDI being instructed by the Council of State in certain cases. This does not mean that individual decisions taken by the UDI may be revoked or set aside, unless they prove to be invalid, but a new assessment will guide future decisions. That's an important clarification. It must also be clear that the right of the Council of State to instruct applies only within the framework of what the Government has decided, i.e. that it must comply with the applicable law. Instructions shall also normally be given in writing. The working party is also in favour of a positive decision being taken by the Department for the UN Review. Here I would like to make it clear that this is not to be retroactive for valid decisions, but to guide future practice. There shall also be a period of four months within which a positive decision may be filed in the UDI for a test in the UN. The working party supports the creation of a major topic in order to ensure a greater level of equality of practice and non-discrimination in the foreign administration than we have today. I have also noticed that the Government now supports the Workers' Party, SV and the proposal of the Centre Party that two of the seven members of the Grand Board be appointed from humanitarian organisations, and that the Director of UNE should not be the head of the grand jury. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party believe that there is a need to give free legal advice beyond what is being given today to the individual who is being treated for great cause. We don't get a majority for that. We also want there to be the possibility of personal presence to a greater extent than it is today. The other parties will not be in it. There's no willingness to take the signals that we get, that very few get the opportunity to meet in the denominator.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e85	I could only have briefly suggested the suggestions in the vote, but I would like to make a few comments. I would at least be allowed to state that the Progress Party still has a different solution to the management of the foreign field than the majority and the other parties have, but it obviously assumes that one will also have the continued large influx of asylum seekers into the country. I am pleased to record that the number of asylum seekers is significantly reduced, and we hope to continue to see a decrease in 2005. I would also like to believe that we will again have new rounds of changes regarding the management of the foreign field. The structure and what are established as an institution today to control the foreign field is, of course, built on the basis that we are to be one of Europe's largest recipients of asylum seekers based on the population. I also assume that there was perhaps some reason why the major changes came in 2001, and the Right and Advance Party were the parties that opposed the significant changes that then came. If one goes back to 1997, when Bondevik I entered the government premises, one will see that it was from the time of a violent change in Norwegian immigration policy. Then the number of asylum seekers went up sharply. As far as I recall, it was at that time approx. 2 500 asylum seekers, until we reached a peak early in 2002 of nearly 18 000 asylum seekers. Obviously, when you don't have an appliance that meets it, it has to change. Then I also expect that when the Government now, using the Medicine of the Advance Party, gets a reduction in the number of asylum seekers to Norway, it realizes that the institution, foreign governance, needs to change in this way. It may not be that we have an apparatus to be up and running because ‘things can happen quickly’, as the representative Eye of the Workers’ Party said in his statement. We have to have a better predictability across the field. Otherwise, I just have to say that we support the most significant changes proposed in the case, in addition to the composition of the major subject. We have our own proposal there, where we say that the composition that is proposed can be wrong because we don't achieve what we want, that is equal treatment. I believe that the composition proposed will actually help liberalise Norwegian immigration policy. It is not the Progress Party interested in, and it is, as I have understood, not the Workers' Party or the Government interested in it. These are the essential areas in which we stand alone in relation to the attitude. I just want to promote the proposals that the Progress Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e102	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e105	This matter is a direct follow-up of St.meld. No 21 for 2003–04, which we dealt with last year, and a follow-up to the evaluation of the Study on Foreign Affairs. Because of the thorough debate we had last year, I see no need to go into all the details, but stick to a few main issues. I would like to begin by replicating to the Per Sandberg Progress Party, simply because it is not possible to pursue refugee policy on the basis of the fluctuations in the number of asylum seekers in Norway. It is necessary to pursue refugee policy in the context of who needs protection in this country, and not in the context of some measure, even if we know that the Progress Party has had in its budgets to accept 6 000 asylum seekers, and if there is more than that, we must not deal with their cases. It's unconventional, and it's a totally unsustainable way of running politics. The world is changing. Sometimes it's war, sometimes it's not war. Some would remember that there were some warriors in 2001 and 2002. We received many refugees, including: from Afghanistan, at that time. It can't surprise anyone. This will be the case, and this will be the case with the number of asylum seekers. Today, against the votes of the Central Party and the SV, the Storting gives authority to interpret the law, in extreme cases oral interpretation of the law, and instruction authority to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is no doubt that the main objective — and this was very clear last year — with this possibility of interpretation of the law for the Ministry is to implement rapid restrictions on immigration and refugee policy. I see that the wording of Ot.prp. No 31 for 2004-2005 is different from the wording of the big message last year, but that was exactly what was very clear. The centre party and the SV believe that this could weaken the legal certainty of foreigners and lead to a more unbridled practice than if one had chosen to use the large space currently available to define the central concept of foreign law through regulations. The ironic thing is that the government council Solberg gave herself a regulatory home like the first thing she did when she became the state council. This regulatory home was at the time justified by a strong desire to strengthen the safety of women in particular, in relation to gender-based persecution. Since then, however, the regulations, which at least the Senterpartiet and SV have requested, along with many employees in the Foreign Affairs Department, have been absent. One of the issues raised in the report in the evaluation of the foreign student topic was that several of the employees could wish for greater clarity and political governance through clarification of key concepts of foreign law. It is the concept of ‘strong human considerations’, ‘strong connection with the kingdom’ – now I see the Council of State thinking of such a type of regulation and having had such a rule of consultation with regard to the so-called muffins, i.e. Iraqi refugees, but we do not have a general rule on how to interpret this concept – and the latter is ‘in particular cases of doubt’, which is what is crucial for getting cases fully dealt with in the Study of Foreign Affairs. The centre party and SV have wanted such clarification through these regulations, and we think it's funny that the council wants the opportunity to instruct directly, when she doesn't even use the space that is in being able to instruct through regulations. It is important to point out that an instruction will only apply to the Foreign Affairs Directorate and not to the Foreign Affairs Department, which has to do with regulations and laws. This means that you can get into the funny situation of instructing the Foreign Affairs Directorate to implement a strict practice, while the Foreign Affairs Department subsequently approves matters with a background in what is provided by regulations and laws. That's a funny way to drive this. It would have been much better to implement overall governance through regulations. I would therefore like to take up the proposal of the SV and the Central Party to ask the Ministry and the Government to use this regulatory home to clarify central concepts in order to obtain a clearer legal status, and to get more appeals to the Foreign Affairs Department and deal with them for full mention. Clarification of concepts is one of the issues that many have raised, and not just through the evaluation report. Various organisations have also addressed this issue. It is important to say if several of the cases that are being dealt with in full, that at the moment they are being dealt with there, they also have a greater degree of acceptance. This may, of course, have several reasons, precisely because they are special cases of doubt. However, I owe it to you to note that, for example, the issues we have talked about earlier today, which relate to Ethiopians who have been re-examined, have been dealt with in full detail, and there the applicants have received support. The second main issue which has been the conflict is the possibility for the Ministry to appeal positive decisions from the UDI to the UN and positive decisions from the UN before the courts. We're against that. We believe that today's legal situation, with the possibility for both the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department to convert granted statuses if they are invalid, is sufficient. In addition, we believe that the burden of bringing these matters under control and appealing to them by the department – it is very clear management signals when the department anchors these kinds of cases – will be too great for the individual. We don't want that opportunity to appeal. We believe it would be sufficient to implement any policy changes through regulation. We're positive for grandma. We are in favour of some of the amendments and other things that have been examined here by the rapporteur and have been tabled. This is a known substance from last year. But I want me to ask the rhetoric from Kari Lise Holmberg that members of the Central Party and SV are almost only concerned with individual matters and are running politics that way, while the Government has a completely different line. It's simple things that clarify the principal aspects, and when we ask questions to the ministry in relation to matters, they've essentially been about the principal aspects of different matters. That's the way we deal with things with the council. We have to say that the structure and governance that the majority will adopt today will lead to a much more media-adapted policy and faster changes in foreign affairs in an untransparent way. There have been objections from very many organisations. This is quite different from the security that lies in the Centre Party and SV will, namely to ensure that more regulations are put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e126	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e129	Many have changed in the foreign field in the last five years. This means, of course, that changes need to be evaluated and adapted to the political objectives of enlargement and government. I don't think this is the last time that Stortinget regulates the relationship between UDI, UNE and the Government, and to the extent that we elected the people. Before we created UNE, the pressure against government council and government was immeasurably extensive in individual matters. It seemed that the Council of State finally had to deal with about every single matter. It wasn't resilient, and it was a system I understand only the Progress Party wants to go back to. But that doesn't mean we think the system we have today is ideal in all areas. It's actually hard to find an ideal system on such an area. Government councils and governments can no longer intervene in individual cases. However, I would like to point out that as populist policymakers, we are not excluded from the role of every citizen of Norway. We have to be able to go in and see if the intention of the law is single, and talk about the citizens' case at all levels, including this, not least because the foreign law itself opens up extensive use of discretion. I used – I can admit it – much of the Easter to ensure that two little girls without food, money and power in Murmansk got to come to their mother after 18 long months. It was in line with both the letter and the intention of the promise. But it helped to take matters up, she got a happy solution. That's also the way, and we don't have to ignore, that we can get insight into what is needed for changes in laws to make the system more accurate. In this case, changes in laws are not necessary, it is in line with the laws. This matter extends the powers of instruction of the Council of State. The Christian People's Party believes that it is absolutely necessary to ensure that foreign administration practices are more consistent with policy objectives and priorities. This guarantees better political governance with foreign law and is not a stupid way to do it. In this area, it fits badly with a static and rigid system. Instruction is faster than law and regulations, but of course it does not replace laws and regulations. It's never meant to be. This is an additional instrument. The proposal on major issues also helps to strengthen political governance, where both government and humanitarian organisations are represented, as well as UNE. This title shall deal with matters which are of a principle or of particular importance. I think we need a big subject, and I think it can be a positive addition. The changes proposed here in the foreign field, which fortunately largely have multiples, will strengthen legal certainty and popular governance in this area. But we haven't solved all the problems. In terms of targets, we're hardly. We will continue to face new challenges here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e142	Ot. pp. No 31 is a follow-up to St.meld. No 21 for 2003-2004 on management conditions in the foreign field. The centre party sees no reason to take a different view now than we did in connection with the processing of this message. Our commitment to governance through in-depth regulations over a general authority of instruction is firm. We believe that in-depth regulations in a completely different way will provide clear, verifiable criteria for suspension, it will ensure stability and a careful situation in a completely different way from today. It is sobering that the Government argues that regulatory work is so time consuming that they would rather have a general authority of instruction. Long-term children in reception in the summer of 2004 are one of several examples that when all good forces go together, it is possible to get a prescription quickly. It's actually something else to stick to both for those who are case handlers, for those who have submitted their application, and indeed for us, who are jointly politically responsible. So the government today proposes to review positive decisions in the UDI by bringing the decisions before the Foreign Affairs Department when they find reason to do so, and to try positive decisions in the UN before the courts. These two proposals are opposed to the Central Party. If the Government is concerned about the effects of current laws, regulations and administrative provisions, you need to modify the recipe to prevent it from happening. So I have to say that we see in meeting the creation of major topics. We are pleased with the Government's proposal for composition. Four laymen and three masters think we're a good starting point. We are also pleased that there is now broad support for the appointment of two out of seven members from humanitarian organisations. Then I want to go back to a debate that we had earlier today, about individual matters and the commitment there. It is the individual issues that give a face to Norwegian refugee policy. So we can pick two angles. We can choose to listen to the experience – I know some of those who have tried it – to see both what practice is and what should be changed. It is the experience with these individual things that has overestimated us that there is a need for an in-depth study of regulations. The councils made it earlier today that she was almost overcleaned day and night with questions and suggestions from the Centre Party and SV in this field. Of course, that's not right. But let me say, I don't use Easter weekends to get kids from Murman's return to their parents. I also don't want a system that makes that the way we grow-up representatives have to work. On the contrary, I think there is a very good argument that the government is using the ability they have to give detailed regulations. So if Anita Apelthun Soul and others, as I have good reason to believe, are not always content with the practice that is today, and if she wants to change, then the right way to go is to vote for proposal No. 2 today, from SV and the Center Party. There we ask the Government. «produce regulations clarifying key concepts of the Foreign Affairs Act: refugee, strong human interests, immigration policy considerations, strong links with the rich and significant issues of doubt». There is no doubt, however, that such a first-time review will lead to the need for an in-depth review of today's legislation. And then there's also the possibility of a more thorough discussion of this rather than raising debts against each other. Then, in connection with individual items that have appeared, I have recorded that there is an element that I thought we need to take even more seriously. It is that the policy that is being pursued must have legitimacy in the people. I think it is very gratifying that local communities are responding and engaging, and are completely unintelligible for some of the proceedings. So it is right to say that sometimes it turns out that not all the relevant information has come out, and so one thing can be changed. There are rules for that. But it is also right to say that some of the questions that come from some communities, which some of us take inwards us, would have been possible to give answers in a different way than today, if the majority would have been willing to participate in the government's drawing up closer regulations in important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e166	This is a follow-up to legal changes to the proposals put forward by the Government in St.meld. No 21st of last year. It is not that there is a need for a thorough review of all parts of the proposals, but I note that there is a majority in the Chamber for what the Government has proposed. I want to comment on a couple of issues that have been raised. First, it's like the Center Party and SV repeat what they said last year, that the background for this is kind of the desire for tightening up. No, the background for this is actually not essentially that. I also think that the debate focuses too much on asylum seekers and the number of asylum seekers. I would like to remind you that most of the decisions taken by UDI and UNE concern other types of foreign affairs, including: on family reunification issues, on the access of special coal children — a number of aspects and practices related to it. It is equally related to the circumstances that I feel that it is often difficult to write regulations on relatively detailed minor changes that there is a desire to implement and where instructions will be more topical to use. Then there is no doubt that the main issues relating to the changes made to the treatment of asylum seekers in Norway are not related to legal, regulatory and evaluation issues. These are none of them, approximately, with the exception of the reuniting and depending requirements, which in themselves are not related to regulations or laws. It is a matter of practice and enforcement as to how we treat people when they are in Norway. It has been about differentiated treatment, and thus not initially about the law of foreigners as such. I feel that part of that kind of suspicion of what the motives are, shadows that in a world where globalisation is great, the changes and the pressures of much, we will often find that we can quickly see that parts of a regulation, parts of things that lie there, need clarification or a change in order to get the interpretation in place, and that therefore there is also a need to have a stronger degree of instruction. So the question of providing more exhaustive regulations. Yes, I agree that in some areas there is a need for exhaustive regulations. New regulations and understanding of concepts are also needed. Among other things, we have making regulations that we have sent to the hearing, which concern changes in policies related to special coal children and family reunification issues – these are changes in a number of large and heavy areas to improve the functioning of the whole system. However, it is also the case that at the turn of the year 2001/2002 we set up the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which, among other things: According to their mandate, they have been given the task of looking at precisely those concepts contained in the Foreign Affairs Act, and they have also made proposals for a completely new law. It would then, I think, be totally resource-depleting if we were to seriously review the concepts of the Foreign Affairs Act and clarify them, write regulations, with the time and work associated with it, in order to clarify this type of law and the same concepts that the Foreign Law Committee has worked with. That means that when there's a new foreign law, it's clear that we want leaders. Some concepts are also changed in relation to the changes in the new law on foreigners, however much is also shifted from regulation to law in that work. As for the special rule relating to who is a refugee, it is that what came out in the hearing bodies, and the questions raised in the course of that regulation, created the basis for us to feel the need to wait for the Foreign Law Committee to see how they handled some of the same concepts before finishing work on such a regulation. We're looking at that for the moment. I would like to stress this, because when work is in progress in parallel, it is not necessary to do double work related to this, nor is it right to spend a lot of time clarifying the terms that will in any case be decided upon in connection with a new legislative work, which will come to the Stortingen during the next majorization period. We've also defined some of these terms. Among other things, we have defined the term ‘special connection to the kingdom’ in line with the provisional regulation in March. We are conducting a proportionality assessment in expulsion cases precisely to provide a framework around the discretion that is being carried out. It is not that we are not willing to use the piece of legislation, but it is quite important that we do not believe that we can give exhaustive regulations in all areas, because then the judgements that are assumed to have been made disappear. I believe that some area of discretion should also be, simply because it would be impossible to have exhaustive information, for example. on all cases that would fall under ‘special cases of doubt’. If I had known in advance that all there might be doubt in ‘special cases of doubt’, I think I should have applied for that job in Rome. I understand that there is now a white smoke coming down in Rome. There is a new pope appointed, I have been informed. I would then have had much closer contact with the authority than with other regulations, if I had done so. I don't think anyone in the office will be able to predict that in advance, and you would have the round going on. As regards the question of examining cases with positive decisions and the difference between the UDI and UNE treatments, it is due to the fact that UNE was established with a special independence in order to be a subject of complaint. We've found ways to try to deal with conflicts that can occur without doing anything about independence. That is why we have chosen to go to court rather than have the Department get some extended instruction right to UNE. I want to make the Storting aware of one thing. The Committee points out in the preamble to ‘not to over-examine decisions already taken in the UN’. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the context of the procedural regulations that we are about to issue at the hearing, I would like to highlight the possibility that, in a very special situation, the head of staff may request that a matter dealt with in the ordinary hearing be re-examined in great detail. These are cases where decisions have been taken to the detriment of the foreigner, against the voice of the facilitator, but where the facilitator considers that the decision is unlawful. This is to reduce the possibility of going to court and to have to have legal proceedings to assess whether it is illegal or not. This is to help the foreigner in a very specific case, such as: has been listed by the Department of Foreign Affairs as one area which may appear as a difficult topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e186	The President will propose that those who are given the floor below be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e189	I feel a certain need to make a comment about Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. She has, as far as I know, spent a lot of time on individual reasons. Many times in 12 years she has also involved me in individual humanitarian issues. So, my fellow Member, I can say: such things can hardly be regulated away in a world where distress and persecution are imminent. That's a good system we'll hardly get. I feel the need to say this, because there is something naive in believing that we should not have individual reasons, by having regulations and laws in all areas. My efforts in the Easter weekend focused on the use of time and information that had not been made, and I had the privilege of getting help as a resident in Norway. I'm proud of that, and I'm glad of that. Prescriptions that SV and the Center Party want would hardly have changed this case at any rate. Gender will and must be present in any future in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e200	First just a clarification in relation to our vote. We have assessed it in such a way that we will support proposal No. 1 in the settings. Then I only have a few brief comments to the representative Holmås. He does not deny himself. The representative Holmås somehow tries to attack the Progress Party because we have lower targets compared to accepting asylum seekers. That's actually what SV itself is doing, and that's what the government is doing, and that's what the budget is doing. As far as I remember, the target number of asylum seekers in the year is 8,500. But the difference is that the SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Government have given authority to allow asylum seekers to flow in addition to what may be the target number. It's an honest case for SV that they're totally indifferent to whether it's 8 000, 16 000, 24 000 or 32 000, because they think it should be the human, right way to operate. It's an honest thing. But I honestly think that SV should reflect a little on that policy, if it is that they are occupied by the asylum institution, which would immediately be powdered by such a system. Then I'll just finally be allowed to comment on what the representative Holmås said, I think it was to the representative Kari Lise Holmberg, that he would have asked for that type of rhetoric from other staging representatives. Yes, I don't know how to comment on it, but I think the representative Holmås should be the very last to comment on other people's ways of communicating, debating or running rhetoric. For there he may be world-class in developing a rhetoric that is unique to putting others in embarrassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e209	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 530]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e225	Discrimination and racism are unacceptable and violate our values, which say that everyone is equal and must be socially equal. Nevertheless, we know that there is discrimination – from negative discrimination and exclusion to serious violence with fatal consequences – because of ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, etc., and that this is also happening in Norway. Discrimination also affects disabled persons and women. Norway has acceded to a number of international human rights conventions and has implemented the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights through the Human Rights Act. In addition, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, with the exception of the field of alienation, is implemented in the same law. Protection against discrimination is otherwise spread in different laws. The Norwegian implementation of the Convention obligations has been somewhat unsystematic, and there is a need for a more systematic approach to this work. In Ot.prp. No 33 promote legislative proposals to implement the United Nations Convention on Racial Discrimination in Norwegian law and to meet the requirements for the protection of discrimination laid down in the EU Council Directives on non-discrimination, irrespective of racial and ethnic origin and on equal treatment in employment; In addition to new legislation, changes are proposed in the Labour Environment Act, the Criminal Code and housing laws. The main political distinction in this matter is between the Progress Party and the other parties. Norway will be and will be a multicultural and diverse society in the future. That's good, but it requires us to eliminate both deliberate and unconscious discrimination and ensure equivalency. The Progress Party, contrary to the law, opens the way for more closed borders and turns the blind eye to the fact that there is discrimination, as everyone else sees. Only to claim that we have equal opportunities as it is today will unfortunately increase the level of conflict, exert violence against human rights and also restore Norwegian competitiveness quite strongly. It is a broad majority, all with the exception of the Progress Party, that supports the main content of new law – the principle of the establishment of enforcement apparatus and the responsibility for enforcement activities. But there's a little different view of the organization of it. It shall be treated in Ot.prp. No 34 and Ot. pp. No Thirty-five. The majority support positive specific treatment, that it is actually necessary to achieve real equality. The law applies in all areas of society, with the exception of family life and personal relationships. The law prohibits direct and indirect discrimination, prohibits harassment, prohibits retaliation, builds on the principle of shared burden of proof and gives right of redress and compensation. The provisions of the law shall be enforced by the enforcement apparatus and the general legal instrument. On the points where the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have other proposals, and where these are not adopted, these parties have said that they will subsidly support the legislative proposals contained in the proposal. The Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre believe that the Racial Discrimination Convention should be implemented in the Human Rights Act. It gives a higher status and a positive signal power. The Holgersen Committee recommended it. The signals that Norway has given and received in international forums indicate this. Human rights experts recommend it. There is now an inexplicable distinction between the central conventions implemented by the Human Rights Act and the central conventions that do not, namely the Racial Discrimination Convention and the Women's Convention. There is a broad consensus between so-called all parties, apart from the Progress Party, that there is a need to go through all the laws to ensure that a person actually gets a complete protection, but the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre promote proposals for such an overall review. In particular, it is important to remove the actual discriminatory hierarchy that provides different protection to different groups, without justification. Such inequality is not in line with the obligations of the European Convention on Human Rights. Disabled persons, for example, are not protected by this law. The Syse Committee, which had a plan to give up its position today – I don't know if it has happened – would investigate this. The principle must be that disabled people should enjoy at least the same level of protection as others and should have measures which in practice ensure social equality. The whole point of whether Norway has fulfilled its international obligations under the Conventions is not that we adopt this law, but that we have laws and measures that in practice ensure equality and non-discrimination. It is the most important practice. Back to the Syse Committee. It was with some apprehension that I read in the reply letter to the committee that the Council of State thought it would take many years before the work of the Syse Committee would result in legislative proposals that would provide disabled people with protection. This is why the entire committee has asked the Government to submit legislative proposals based on the work of the Syse Committee as soon as possible. In the opinion of the Labour Party, the SVs and the Centre Party, the bill has proposed two fundamental weaknesses as they are today. The Act does not contain an obligation to engage in activity, which was central to the Holgersen Committee, and operates with two definitions of indirect discrimination. The duty of activity is the most important. Discrimination is linked to structures and cultures, which create benefits for some and disadvantages for others. It is hidden, often unconscious, and it continues because the way this works is not made visible. A law order will work as a matter is raised when something wrong has happened. Activity obligations, on the other hand, will help to make the aspects of diversity visible and the structural changes needed to achieve non-discriminatory practices in place. Obligations of activity focus on who does something wrong, on how we prevent discrimination. Anyone who is going to be able to follow this law must actually change, their structures and their culture in practice. In this way, the obligation of activity is merely a proof of what a person is obliged to do under this law. It's not a burden, but a help to get started systematically. Government parties seem to believe that administrative simplification is more important than the effective functioning of the law on eradicating discrimination. That is to say, the right not to be discriminated against is a human right and cannot be equated with or subordinated to such administrative simplifications. Obligations of activity are considered necessary in order to promote gender equality. The fact that ethnic discrimination should be easier to survive is naïve at best. It weakens the credibility of the intention of the government parties with the law when they oppose the obligation of activity. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre also promote proposals for a definition of indirect discrimination. Two definitions are unfortunate and create confusion. The out-of-work high-threshold definition requires a particular disadvantage. In working life, only one is required to do worse than others. Ronald Craig, at the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, pointed out in the Committee hearing that the use of the high-threshold definition of non-employment is not in line with the minimum standard of the EU Race Directive. In the EU there is now only a low-threshold definition and the introduction of a high-threshold definition in this law violates developments in the EU. The Equality Act does not have a high-threshold definition which requires qualified disadvantages. Moreover, a high-threshold definition could almost not be used in practice because it would require such extensive evidence relating to the necessary statistical data base that is not available today. It is therefore whether the law in practice prevents discrimination, and not that it is a law in itself, which determines whether we fulfil our obligations and objectives with the law. With that definition, we don't want to do that in our opinion. Therefore, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre only propose a low-threshold definition. In the case of the Working Environment Act, the Workers' Party and the SV promote a proposal to remove the explicit right of religious communities to discriminate against homosexuals in the event of employment. It is a question of whether religious freedom ranks over the right to be equivalent and not to be discriminated against. Are there any contradictions between these rights in terms of employment? We mean no. Only faith and religion are mentioned in the EU Framework Directive as grounds for discrimination. So there is no explicit right to discriminate after sexual orientation. Therefore, § 54D No. 5 is removed and § 54D No. 4 are changed so that the employer does not have the right to ask for sexual orientation. SV has asked the Government to identify one current job where the form of life or sexual orientation is relevant for the performance of the job. They can't, of course, because it doesn't exist. Who you like, live with or have sex with is private. The employer has nothing to do with this. The employer may require loyalty to the tasks and purposes of the job and the performance of the job. The sharing of a belief may be relevant, but only for some apprenticeship-related positions. From there on and to have the right to know in fact whether the sexual orientation and lifestyle of an employee is in line with that belief, and whether it can be considered to be disqualifying for his employment is highly questionable. In any case, the rights of religious communities are safeguarded by § 54D No. 1, where discrimination resulting from objective reasons and necessary for the performance of a job or profession is permitted. Therefore, this discrimination should cease with this law. Section 135 of the Criminal Code on roughness was amended, so that even grossly negligent infringements are now affected by the prohibition. Everyone, except the Advance Party, supports this. But the SV and the Central Party do not support the criminal suffrage from two to three years. That the law becomes applicable now is very important. Increased penalties hardly matter if you commit such crimes or not. The SV and the Centre also believe that protection against hateful expressions should apply to disabled people now. Similarly, the same protection must be provided against the denial of goods and services as for others in § 349a. There is no reason to await the Syse Committee to provide such protection now. It cannot really be that there is a disagreement that it should not be allowed to deny disabled goods and services in the same way as others. It's completely incomprehensible. SV believes that the law’s short form should be the Racism Act, because it is an implementation of the UN Convention on Racial Discrimination. The Discrimination Act gives a false impression that this is the overall and well-established protection against discrimination in Norwegian law, and it is not. Among other things, disabled people are not covered at all, and it is perhaps the most excluded group throughout Norway that is systematically excluded from buildings, means of transport, etc. Equality and protection under the law require that everyone can afford to use the legal instrument. What we know about ethnic minorities is that, if we look at their economy, they have more systematic advice than the majority population in Norway. Therefore, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre believe that it is necessary to look at the system of free legal assistance in relation to the Racism Act, so that those who have poor advice but need legal protection do not suffer legal loss because they simply cannot afford to use the legal system as others do. Finally, in the last week, most of the story of related Robert in 15 years from Østfold, who appeared as happy Martine. Transsexuality is nothing new. Knowledge is little, discrimination can be gross. This is a field where there is a lack of legal work today, and the call goes to the Government to start with it, so that this group also gets not only the different measures they need, but also a protection against discrimination, such as what we start today in relation to ethnicity, religion and some other. Discrimination law work in Norway is not complete with this law. There is a need for an overall review of all the laws, so that we actually ensure equivalence, because that's what's the point of the law. Then I'll bring up the suggestions that are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e276	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e279	The Labour Party will work for a tolerant, multicultural society and against racism. We all have a responsibility to fight racism and discrimination. Everyday racism helps to legitimize harassment and violence and undermine the values of our society. The new anti-discrimination law that we are dealing with today, together with more effective provisions of the penal code, will strengthen legal protection against discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, national origin, descent, skin color, language, religion and outlook on life. The law aims to provide a better and more comprehensive basis for combating racism and discrimination in our society. Racism and discrimination against persons with a minority background are widely documented. It also got the doorkeepers at the outside of The Scotsman in Oslo experienced last week. The doorkeepers were fired there because they had the wrong skin colour. It's good that we get to know such things. But it's amazing that it can happen in today's Norway. Now the committee has been in Canada, and I would think that such a case would have been quite perceptive and perhaps at all could not have happened in that country. It's great that AUF, LO and Norwegian People's Aid tonight have organized a concert at Egertorget in support of those who have resigned. The setting in place by the Committee would not have helped the quitters in The Scotsman. There is clearly a hole in the law that we have to close again. That is why the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Centre, is promoting a proposal on this, which we hope will also receive a majority when we are going to vote. Most of the legislative proposals are based on broad political consensus. With regard to the personality to be covered by the Discrimination Act, the Government's proposal implies that legal protection against discrimination includes ethnicity, national origin, lineage, skin color, language, religion and outlook on life. This means that there are several groups not covered by the present proposal. This is e.g. homosexuals outside the labour and housing sectors, disabled persons, transgendered persons and persons discriminated against on other grounds of discrimination. The government's justification that these groups are not currently included is the Syse Committee that has been shut down. The mandate of the Syse Committee is essentially to draw up proposals to strengthen legal protection against discrimination against people with disabilities. The selection will finish its work soon. The Labour Party believes that the Government should start work on a comprehensive anti-discrimination law in line with international obligations and the protection of the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, because everyone qualifies for protection under the general prohibition of discrimination of human rights. Currently, Norwegian law does not explicitly prohibit racist organisations, but there are more general bans on certain types of organisations and associations. In line with the Holgersen Committee's assessments of the concerns, the government has not proposed a general ban. This is also in line with the attitude of a unanimous judiciary, which opposed the imposition of an explicit ban on racist organisations, but instead introduces reaction options aimed at the activities of the organisation itself, rather than at the organisation itself. The Labour Party agrees. The government’s sole reason for not giving priority or incorporating racial discrimination law into the Human Rights Act is linked to a reference that the issue should be discussed in the magnificence notice on the subsequent power investigation. The Labour Party believes that a debate related to the legalisation of the policy is important, but that there should be a specific justification for not including the race discrimination law in the human rights law or giving the race discrimination law a priority in the present legislative proposal. When the other conventions have been incorporated into the Human Rights Act and the Foreign Affairs Committee has previously unanimously agreed to include the Racial Discrimination Act, the Labour Party believes that we should continue this position and support it. So to the question of duty of activity. The duty of activity was a very important part of the Holgersen Committee's draft law. Without an activity obligation, the law will not require employers to actively change and work for the prevention needed to combat discrimination. Experience from other countries that have worked for a long time on ethnic discrimination has shown that a ban on discrimination alone is not sufficient to combat discrimination. The obligation of activity is today enshrined in the Equality Act. In the view of the Labour Party, the government’s argument about unnecessary bureaucracy is not sufficient and cannot be given decisive weight. The working party will therefore be in favour of an activity obligation. It shall also apply to social organisations. I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed in the places. But there has to be a correction in the last line, where it says ‘shall be made worse’. It shall be stated ‘to be made worse than others in the corresponding situation’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e307	The representative Signe Eye has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e310	Unfortunately, racism and discrimination against persons with a minority background are widely documented. That is why this is an important law to promote equality, to ensure equal rights and to prevent discrimination. It is important to have a clear view of discrimination. It is unacceptable for some groups to be allowed to limit their opportunities and rights in Norwegian society because they are exposed to racism and discrimination. It is very important to have a strong focus on equal opportunities for all and on facilitating active participation in society for all. The cultural and religious diversity of the population has come to be, and it is important that the right of individuals to be different, to choose the way of life freely and to think differently is protected. Cultural and religious diversity must be recognised and shown respect, and not used as a basis for discrimination. Discrimination is not solved in the courtroom alone. Better lawmaking is only one of several instruments to combat discrimination. The legislative proposal needs to be seen in a broader context, with at least the same emphasis on attitude and influence. On that occasion, I would just like to show you that the Stortinget is about to deal with St.meld. No 49 for 2003-2004, Mangfold through inclusion and participation, which is an important communication in view of what we are now debating. In the light of the broad and thorough information provided by the rapporteur on the matter, I shall confine myself to addressing three specific areas. One I want to say something about is general anti-discrimination rules, the other is disabled, and the third is the obligation of activity. Discrimination on a general basis should be prohibited. I believe that the general rules in this area will be more adaptable to the changing perceptions of the population. In this case, in its observations, the Right asked the Government to take the initiative to investigate these issues with a view to developing general anti-discrimination rules and, where appropriate, the formulation of comprehensive legislation in this area. It is important to stress that any single legislation in this area should not weaken the protection that specific legislation actually provides today. A future investigation into these issues therefore needs to illustrate the relationship between general rules and specific protection on a defined basis of discrimination. The right-hand side therefore believes that a larger investigation work on these issues should be considered, and that it is a natural follow-up to the issue we are dealing with now. However, the right would like to highlight the importance of a positive focus in this debate. As I said earlier, this law is based on broad consensus in Stortinget, and it is a good step in the right direction that the bill is now being dealt with. In parallel with this legislative proposal, work has also been underway on drawing up proposals that will protect disabled people from discrimination. A sample has been reduced to investigate this issue and is expected to present its results in these days. It was Karin Andersen, too, in his orientation. It is expected that this sample will make a thorough assessment of all the issues arising. On the right, the Government will, as soon as possible after the work of the sample has been completed, submit to the Stortinget proposals for legislation providing disabled people with enhanced legal protection against discrimination. So it's the question of the obligation of activity, which is discussed in the proposal. The right is behind the Government’s assessment of not introducing an activity obligation. Right-wing parties do not want to impose increased red tape on public and private businesses without contributing significantly to the strengthening of protection against discrimination. The overall burden on business is already high, and we have more faith that voluntary and positive measures will have a greater and more desired impact. The requirements for public enterprises, including the municipality, are already comprehensive. The obligation of activity could conflict with other objectives, including: the objective of reducing the State-specific governance of municipalities. There has been a broad consensus in the Committee in the past that this is an important objective. But for the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, there is a tendency to become the most word and little action in giving freedom to the elected members of the municipalities. In conclusion, I would like to say that the right is concerned that the individual should be in the centre. We want to protect respect for it to be different. Everyone must accept that others have the right to make independent choices in terms of opinions, values, religion and way of life. This applies to both women and men. This law is a positive step in the right direction. With regard to the Labour Party's proposal, which has been promoted here in the Chamber today, the Right will vote in favour of the second paragraph of Section 4 and hopefully then prevent similar things that we have now had here in Oslo from appearing. In the end, I address the proposal in the case that is promoted by the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e336	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e339	I cannot go into my post in every single area – it would have taken a long time. But I'm going to try to be general, and then I'm going to go into a couple of the changes that the Progress Party thinks are very alarming. Let me first comment on one thing that came from the case rapporteur, because she said something like the Progress Party was alone in voting against this law, that we were alone in not wanting to introduce this kind of law. Yes, that's a truth with modifications. We are alone in this room – we are. But both the Ministry of Justice, the Government Attorney, the National Attorney and former member of the Human Rights Commission Hanne Sophie Greve share the views of the Progress Party – in changing constellations. So to claim that the Progress Party is alone about being critical, is to take in well hard. I have to say, without reference to sources, that like the case rapporteur and many others, I have had conversations about this law with prominent people who are frightened. Kari Lise Holmberg doesn't achieve what she wants as a right-wing politician. She does not achieve freedom – freedom of expression, diversity and the ability to be herself – with this law, but the opposite. You scare people into a booth, you scare people out of fear of boredom. In this connection, I would like to refer to the daily newspaper today, Sonja Holterman's «On the grain». I actually think she says it very well. I don't know if I'm going to read the whole article, but the title is "Nigger and stupid," and she starts with the following: ‘It is incredibly wrong to use the word negro. Black, colored and our new countrymen are also not correct. I know that, but there's a lot I don't know about the four-words in our language." That's what's the starting point. And then she goes on to say, ‘These groups do not need assistance; they need assistance.’ And in these groups, of course, there are refugees, immigrants, norwegians, disabled people, women, men – all who had to be in a situation where they felt discriminated against. Sonja Holterman goes on to say: 'And so I could still, and yet you wouldn't get all the advice you need. Researchers, anti-racists, all-whites and urban correctness make new rules faster than I can write, and they don't have the habit of adding kindness when you break the rules. If you, without prejudices, are going to say ‘neighbors’, not many people think, ‘I hear you say Negro, but assume you mean Africans.’ It is much more likely that your listeners think, ‘He there is a foreign enemy,’ or at best, ‘He there is a racist without knowing it.’ But you must not become too inclusive either. It has gone too far if you, after being a correct language user, ignore the peculiarity of the different groups and call a Norwegian-African white, and a wheelchair user for the light-on-foot. It is important that through your language you show that you are open to prejudice. Because it doesn't have to be. To help us a little, representatives of the prejudiced elite should have written a manual: ‘Correct and non-stigmatizing names of different groups of individuals who are not really different’. That's very well said by Sonja Holterman, and that's what this is about. We lower the threshold to the point that regardless of who you might be, what ethnic origin you might have, what religious beliefs you might have, or what skin color you might have, we scare all the people into a booth that makes us all alike and afraid to move. You'd think today's VG would scare someone: «Northmen are stamped as the sons of Satan». Obviously, someone has written a book, and the Nordics are referred to as very negative. The anti-racist centre of the leader Nadeem Butt has reported this case. I don't get scared. I'm actually reassured that we're able to discover that we have that kind of people in Norwegian society. But the majority in this room will, through the decision that is being made here today, hide these people, so that they can work in the hidden, and that's dangerous. It's dangerous! I would much rather these should stand out. But what scares me is when NRK P3 applies for a new DJ – discjockey – they write in the ad: ‘We will be particularly responsive to your application if you have a multicultural background.’ It scares me – and then the majority in this Chamber gets their wish fulfilled – if that is the direction we are going to take, because that is discrimination! By the way, I would also like to comment on what the representative Kari Lise Holmberg said she could document violent discrimination and racism in Norway. Could someone please provide me with such documentation? There is not that type of evidence. The fact that some organisations operate and ‘recognize themselves’ is a completely different matter, but it becomes subjective. There is no broad documentation available. This does not mean that the Progress Party does not realise that there is discrimination and racism, but it does not combat it with the kind of laws that the Government is now promoting – discrimination laws, I would say. In order to strengthen legal protection against discrimination based on ethnicity, religion and others, the Government states that as Norway has become an increasingly multicultural society, such legal protection will become even more important in order to avoid contradictions between groups and ensure good integration. No, that's the opposite of it! You divide groups, and groups want to fear each other. The Progress Party agrees that there should be good protection against discrimination in Norway, but the main point is that this law already exists – although there is no separate law, in the view of the Progress Party there is enough to capture discrimination and racism. So this is largely supported by the Government Attorney through most of the Proposition chapters. The Government’s proposal for a new law, or the decision taken here today, is therefore largely an estimate and clarification of the existing legislation, while going further within individual fields to signal to a large extent its strong commitment to discrimination. The majority, if I may say so, tend to justify their intrusions with demands from international conventions to which we are attached, but in most cases it is also rejected by the Attorney General and the Ministry of Justice. In the view of the Progress Party, a balanced legislative proposal has not been promoted, which may result in large, unintended results. It is likely that the Progress Party will be criticised. We're probably going to be put in a situation where we're going to have trouble defending why we're not voting for this law. But on the basis of what I have already said, that both the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General, the National Attorney, etc., with changing constellations, have stated that the proposals are already covered, we are dealing with it. So that's why we're going to go against the whole law. Strengthening legal protection against discrimination is not achieved by creating discriminatory factors, such as: The burden of proof is reversed, which is the most alarming proposal in this House. Ethnic discrimination is a real and serious problem in Norway, says the majority. And I've asked, based on what reality? And I ask, what about this law, are we now going to get rid of the problem of this law in hand? No, I don't think so until I see it. The eagerness to get pressure through these laws has, I think, led the Government to actually break the conventions that they themselves claim are the basis of the legal texts – this is largely, in particular, the European Convention on Human Rights. But these laws also violate other UN conventions. Thus, a legal text is used that includes international conventions ratified by Norway, and then they break the same conventions with that law. The legal text says, among other things: where there is reason to believe that discrimination has taken place, such discrimination shall be considered to be ‘proved’. This is a violation of international conventions; it is a violation of the Convention on Human Rights. In other words, the government, with the support of the socialists here, wants to impose the reverse burden of proof on matters relating to discrimination. This means that one accused of crime must prove his own innocence – despite the fact that the conventions relied on by the majority have clearly stated that everyone is to be presumed guilty until proven guilty under law. So the government, or the majority, wants to set up two bodies to monitor any violation of proposed laws in the context of these laws. Among other things, a discriminating officer must enforce and be an instigator in this work. The Ombudsman shall, inter alia: pursues outreach activities towards the immigrant population. This is a mix of roles in which the Ombudsman, on the one hand, should encourage an indication and then decide, in a discretionary manner, whether discrimination has taken place. Furthermore, it is proposed to set up a Discrimination Board, which will be a judicial authority. The entries shall consist of eight persons and no requirements for Norwegian citizenship shall be imposed. In other words, we can experience that non-nationals should be able to judge the Nordics in a process in which they themselves have to prove their innocence. I can't believe it. And despite the quoted conventions that include religious societies, the majority explicitly chooses to make exceptions to them. Implicitly, it means legitimizing the religiously motivated discrimination of women taking place in many environments. The draft new legal text is an example of how the Government is influenced to pursue policies on minority premises. On that occasion, it should be opportune to remind the Government that our tolerance must never be drawn to such an extent that we accept intolerance. I initially thought I'd spend another 15 minutes, because there's a whole bunch of other things that could have been commented on. But I understand that much of the driver of this government to promote this law might be summed up in relation to the principle of law. The government is of the opinion that all of these arguments are shaded by, among other things. the important signals that such an incorporation will have for Norway’s international human rights work in the field of racism and ethnic discrimination and that it will generally strengthen Norway’s credibility in promoting human rights. Thus, the Government also proposes that the Racial Discrimination Act be incorporated into the Discrimination Act. That's what must be the driver. Just to make it clear at the end: I hope that the Presidency will clearly raise the vote so that the Progress Party will vote against all the proposals and the law as a whole. I am promoting our proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e412	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e415	Racism and anti-Semitism and discrimination have cast deep shadows on our history. Freedom and human dignity are values that we want the Norwegian society to be influenced by in the future as well. It's not obvious. The absence of racism or antisemitism is not what is most widespread as value, culture or even laws in the world. Norway and the West are not the main problem area. Nevertheless, this small contribution, a law that we are dealing with today and which we call the Discrimination Act, is important. The aim of the law is to strengthen legal protection against discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, national origin, ancestry, skin color, language, religion and outlook. The right to be and to think about other things shall be protected, respect for others as well. That's an obvious requirement for the majority. But also the minority must respect others' rights, see the book mentioned in the VG today. It's not necessarily discrimination to disagree with and express itself on that one point. But it has to be done with respect for those who like me different. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the law must be clear on the basis of discrimination. We are, in fact, in disagreement with the fact that a general law on discrimination will serve the same purpose. We believe it is important to ensure that legal certainty, freedom of expression and trust are not weakened by promises that should just protect minorities. They depend most on the fact that these principles of freedom are unabated. This law is not complete. Disability is e.g. not included in this law. However, there will also be a stronger legal protection for this group after the Syse selection, which assesses the disability situation, is presented in April now. I don't think there are many in Norway who are not some in that actions and statements should not seem offensive, frightening, hostile, demeaning or demeaning. Such attitudes and actions are also on a collision course with old standards, which we have learned as a remedy with explanation. Nevertheless, many experience such harassment at work, at school or in all public places, easily in the media. We have a long way to go, and I never think we'll get there completely. Paradise on Earth is a greeting. But laws that set limits are necessary in a society where the good standards of interpersonal relations do not function properly. This law one step on the road. So a little visit to the case spokesperson. Freedom and democracy and tolerance actually mean that the state cannot attract total hegemony, nor by plural decisions. Among other things, churches and organizations must have the right to think and feel differently than the plurality. Forcing pluralism on everyone is intolerant and dangerous. In a democracy, we must actually keep free space where the state's arm does not reach. I want to tell my dear co-representative that sharing faith in fact, and of course, means living in the pact with the threat and the basis of ideas. If you want to pass on this idea base, it's also totally destructive if you do something different than a speaker. Then a troubling loses. Therefore, I am pleased that SV's attempts to change § 54D are now being rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e437	I would like to refer to the statements made by Mr Andersen. She did very well for the main points of the law and where the conflict lines go in the committee. She expressed a vision that I share when it relates to the Government's approach to implementation, that Holgersen's recommendation is not followed up. She did well for the foundation of the obligation of activity and other important themes. So I'm just going to comment on three points in a little bit. First of all, the cultural and religious diversity of the population has come to be. Then the approaches must be recognition and respect, that is, the opposite of discrimination. It is the basis of the whole committee. Then it's actually a little eye-catching that we can make as different articles as we've done in this matter. But then it's also that those of us who really believe it, have to realize that here it's important to get a law in place, and then it's very important to enforce a practice that follows this law. Then there is a proposal today on this matter. A special situation has made it necessary here with an addition, meaning the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. In addition, I would like to show that we have a law on the working environment for consideration in the committee, and I also believe it is necessary to follow up what is being proposed today, in connection with Ot.prp. No 49. So finally, I would ask the Council of State to note the outrage expressed on page 3 of a joint committee, which relates to the need for a reinforced law against discrimination against people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e448	I want to start by saying that we've been involved in a great many times both here and in other forums in general discussions related to issues of integration, inclusion and the issues that are going on that we're going to accept a greater degree of diversity. I believe that during this last ageing period, we have put in place much of the most important legislative work related to the inclusion issue and the integration issue through the law on the introduction system, the right and obligation to Norwegian training, and now also by strengthening the protection against ethnic and religious discrimination. It's important parts of it. Much of the work in the future consists precisely in the work outside the lawwork, in the practical work both in municipalities and locally between people, to make things work and turn our systems upside down not only to be concerned with law and law and rights, but in fact to also find good arrangements to include and accept diversity in our society. It is therefore interesting to note that, through many of these debates, we have met with many examples of discrimination. In this context, the Progress Party has said that it is sad to hear about people who do not get a job, and it is sad to hear examples of people experiencing discrimination. But on concrete challenges if they want to contribute to a stronger protection of discrimination based on ethnicity, they have always tried to talk it out, even when they encounter concrete examples of the discrimination that Per Sandberg has not fully proven yet. I have registered that they have never wanted to answer it. But we've got the answer tonight – when they don't see in their eyes the concrete examples of what is actually happening in our society. I don't intend to go through all the pieces of the law. It is a law that does not primarily create a new legal state in the labour market or housing laws, because it has been implemented in the past, but which is primarily a law that draws these things together, which is about all other parts of society. That is why it is not correct when the case rapporteur says that it conflicts with, among other things. EU race directives when we have a higher threshold linked to indirect discrimination. This is due, inter alia, to: that more EU directives have less impact than this law does, because we have a broader protection against discrimination, which applies in all social conditions as a whole. I would like to stress that when we choose to have two definitions of indirect discrimination, it is necessary to protect the protection of discrimination against simply being in ridicule. In fact, practicing it within the narrow indirect legislation on discrimination we have for the labour market in all other social conditions is not something we are able to get an overview of the consequences of. Firstly, if we are to be able to define treatment leading to a worse situation, to a neutral rule and to call it indirect discrimination, it can significantly affect all of our policies and make the discrimination theme superior to the others. In fact, it is not where I am, either in relation to how the municipalities practice their rules, how the schoolwork works, how the law works or how the policies are to operate. I can't be a part of that. I am afraid that we will then be drawn into some absurdities in relation to the practice of such a broad social field as this is about. I'm actually concerned that respect for such legal protection is also about ensuring that you have an overview of the consequences before you introduce it. In my view, it is a protection of the law and legal protection against ethnic discrimination for the future. There is another field that I would like to point out: I hear that many people believe that the obligation to operate is a sovereign measure. I have always been skeptical about reporting within companies about what measures they have in relation to the equality law, actually contributing to so much activity, or that municipalities that need to fill out a new form of what they have done contribute to new activity. I think that to have real activity against ethnic discrimination and other things to contribute to diversity in one's own business and in one's own workplace, you have to own the issues and not just feel that now someone on the Stortinget has pushed a new rule of law down on one's head – especially if it feels that it's not relevant at all. We are also told that ethnic diversity in Norway is very different in different parts of the world and in different sectors of the world of work and in different parts of our society. That is why I believe significantly more in what we have put into the second amendment of the law, which is going through the issue of a common system of equality and discrimination. It is a matter of contributing to a significantly greater level of obligation of guidance and activity, because positive models and forms of work are created towards the employer and others rather than passive attitudes towards achieving everything by having a so-called obligation of activity. I think it's desktop theory to think that duty of activity produces such great results. I think it can be well documented that we may not be entirely satisfied with what the obligation of activity has given us of results, for example. in Norwegian municipalities, which today report on this in notifications. I myself am the head of a relatively large political organisation, and of course we report in our annual reports what we have done about gender equality. We have an active gender equality work, but it's not because we're imposed on it by the obligation of activity, it's because we're politicians and we own the issue. It's the ownership of the problem we have to create, and we create it outside of space, we create it in the public debate, we create it by appreciating and demonstrating that diversity is actually valuable, not through that kind of rule of law. That is why I think that the solution to the impact, the solution that is also contained in our action plan against ethnic discrimination, which is about introducing good diversity businesses, etc., is a more important and more positive work than provoking all kinds of organisations and levels of government with a new reporting rule and new demands, instead of leaving this space for people to actually pursue policies, pursue activities at their own workplace and be rewarded for it, and not just meet it as a passive legal requirement. I believe that this is an important point to stand by, and that we must ensure that we have a comprehensive protection against discrimination on an ethnic and religious basis. I fully agree that there would have been a need for a common basis of discrimination for all the laws, but we have started in a way, and there has been a great deal of activity to achieve this. The size has also been high during this ageing period in order to reduce a sample of people with disabilities in terms of discrimination. Now that we see that legal protection and concepts are being divided and divided, we should not prevent ourselves from seeing that we should now adopt legal rules that provide this protection, pending that we also come ashore with a broader protection. And it is not certain that one common law on discrimination at the end is the correct answer, because there are differences in the type of descriptions of what is discrimination in different fields, which means that there is reason to consider each field separately. I would like to remind you that when we introduced the protection against discrimination against people with disabilities into the Working Environment Act in the previous period in Stortinget, it was an important norm to give, but I think most of us were aware that at that time we did not do the legal work in advance to make it a particularly practical rule to courts, because in many areas one could claim that when you are not 100 pst. Healthy to do the job you are assigned to is a factual basis for discriminating. It might have required a better lawwork and pre-work. But hopefully it gave the norm effect we wanted it to give when we did it at that time. I'm glad we get a majority of the law as such. Despite the smaller differences, I think this is going to be a law that works well. But I'm therefore of the opinion that we do not create inclusion, diversity and acceptance for inequality in our society in a courtroom. We are creating this primarily through other types of instruments to which I believe the main focus must be directed gradually, not just legislation, but activity to include in practice in Norwegian working life and out in Norwegian social life in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e476	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e479	First, it is completely wrong when the Council of State claims that we are in favour of an obligation to act, do not want a enforcement apparatus with a driving role, as she said. But we believe that the obligation of activity is necessary. Finally, the Council of State said that there is an activity that is necessary, that you actually change the way you work, for example. the way you recruit people into a business. If you ask people if they're discriminating, they'll all say no. Most will be in good faith even, and believe that they do not. But a lot of people do it because the structures are like that. Activity obligations will not necessarily lead to reporting obligations, but this will result in people having to think about how they actually work to comply with the law. And at the moment when a matter is raised, the fact that you have not fulfilled the obligation of activity could be helpful in showing that you have not done what you are going to do. So the point here is just to create activity, a positive activity, make more people change their way of acting to not discriminate. It doesn't have to cost anything. I also have to remember again that not to be discriminated against is a human right. Having some impositions is necessarily not in that category and should be categorised at a different level.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e490	I have not claimed that SV, the Senterpartiet and the Arbeiderpartiet are in favour of the new representative not having a driving role. You'll also see from the record that I haven't said that. But I have said that the government's alternative to using an activity obligation is a guidance function for the working life of the driving force to be operated by the ombudsman in the future. The guidance function on what is good work in terms of diversity, what is good work to prevent discrimination, has been seen as a positive tool instead of using the compulsory instrument, so-called an activity obligation. It is possible that the obligation of activity has all the positive sides that Karin Andersen points out here. I just have to say I don't believe it. I think the real activity you do is based on a commitment that comes from believing in and feeling ownership of it. You don't do it because there's a legal paragraph that says you have to report what you've done and that you have to make what you're doing visible, for example. by means of an annual report, which is the way to bring it into line with the Equality Act, taking into account in particular that the diversity of some enterprises is slightly less than in the field of equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e499	Let me first say that the Council of State is exhibiting an incredible flair when she initiates her intervention in pointing to the law of introduction and the law of Norwegian education for adult immigrants, which the Stortinget has actually instructed the Government to do, and boasts of it as if there is something the Government has invented. The first time the Progress Party proposed both the introduction law and forced Norwegian training, we were almost accused of being racists. But now it's a unanimous big deal that's behind it, and it's the Progress Party proud of. We still find it equally sad that many people are excluded from working life. The Council of State claimed that I said in my speech that the Progress Party had not seen that discrimination and racism were taking place. I would like to challenge the Council of State to document where I said that in my post – because that was almost what the Council of State accused me of saying. My comment went to the representative Kari Lise Holmberg, who said that a broad and serious discrimination and racism could be documented in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e506	It is not the case, therefore, that the Stortinget has imposed on the Government neither the law of introduction nor the law and obligation to Norwegian training. It is quite right that compulsory Norwegian training is something the Progress Party has proposed for many years. I would like to remind you that the Stortinget has adopted about the exact same proposal as what Jan Petersen got a lot of pepper to launch in a speech at the national meeting in the Right in 1996. It's about the exact same thing that an almost unanimous biging has adopted in retrospect. I believe that understanding comes to many as the need comes. I don't believe in that suggestion. What was my point when I said that, was that this has to be seen in the context. We've done the legal work in many areas, and now we have to turn around and look at what we can do to get to the inclusion, diversity and acceptance locally to get better cooperation and better acceptance for having a large minority population. Earlier in my political life, I have been clubbed to use the word ‘freckle’ because it was not a parliamentary expression. I understand that here there is a development in what you accept, also from the Presidency. I just want to make it clear that my experience of the entire article to Per Sandberg was that he thought there was no need for this law. I think it's necessary, because there's a widespread use of prejudices that have to be confronted also legally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e519	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e524	Let me first say that I believe that the Storting with this adopts an unnecessary law that is both inappropriate and that, in my opinion, will work against its purpose in several ways. Thus, a completely new law is adopted here, although almost everything in this new law is already covered by other applicable laws, such as the Labour Environment Act, the Criminal Code, the Housing Act, the Housing Law, the Housing Law, the Owners' Section Act. The Discrimination Act thus represents a duplication of existing legislation, and perhaps at least all the other laws containing the same provisions should be simplified. But no, everything has to be kept. Then you can ask yourself how appropriate it is to have several laws that each covers essentially the same field of action. Of course, the party of progress is taking a great deal of distance from all racism. But we see so many concerns with this law that we have to go against the whole law. Secondly, it can be noted that the bill goes significantly beyond our international obligations. Why is this necessary in all the world? In addition, the law is very unclear on a number of important points, and – you ask me – completely unacceptable in several areas. The Discrimination Act reverses most of its head when it promotes specific laws against discrimination, because it is actually much better to have a law that does not discriminate, but rather to clarify the rights and duties of individual citizens, regardless of ethnicity, national origin, descent, color, language, religion or outlook. We can, for example: take Section 9 on positive special treatment. I have to say that it is a rather confusing and complicated matter, and the paragraph is actually, in my view, discriminatory in itself. The same can be said of Section 11, about the burden of proof shared or vice versa, which violates all normal legal provisions. That means, then, that if someone is accused of discrimination, they are considered guilty of being discriminated against until they themselves have been able to refute or refute such claims! This paragraph is a regular threat to legal certainty and must, sooner or later, be out of Norwegian law, and it violates most of Norwegian law. The legislative proposal is, as I said, an inappropriate instrument for achieving something positive in relation to the grounds of discrimination mentioned. Rather, it will, in my view, contribute negatively to coexistence and integration between the Nordics and immigrants in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e542	I would first like to say that when the Progress Party has not yet realized that the reverse burden of proof is a principle used in other legislation, it does not really surprise me, because they show no interest in the matter. The way in which matters are handled is actually the only one that is useful if the person affected by discrimination is to have some opportunity to win out on his case. So to this by treating everyone the same way, as the Progress Party says. One of the first times I was in the pulpit was in a debate between Torbjørn Andersen and me about this. I said that treating everyone equally is like putting a professional boxer and me into the same boxing. We can do the same amount of training, we can have the same good training, the money gain we get when we win, is the same amount, the rules are the same. But who do you think wins? That's the way it is in society. The community actually doesn't work so that we're equal. Therefore, some people have to have positive special treatment. It's a principle of equality. So I just want to say to the Council of State that when I referred in my speech to the minimum standard of the EU race directive in relation to indirect discrimination, I showed that human rights expert Ronald Craig said at the hearing in the committee that this was not now in line with that, and that the EU is now operating with a low-threshold definition, and that the introduction of a high-threshold definition in this law violates the development of the European Union. – That's what I said, I've replied in white here. So finally, about the right that religious communities now have to discriminate against homosexuals by employment, which Anita Apelthun Seele was in, and where she said that the state's long arm is everywhere. Yes, the long arm of the state must protect individuals from discrimination, it! It's a very important principle, it's a human right, while the Christian People's Party believes that the clergy's long arm should go all the way under to people to find out what they're doing there. We don't think that has anything to do with the job. What you do in your privacy, who you're happy about, and who you're having sex with, no employer has anything to do with it. The employer may require loyalty to the purpose of the job, to the content of the job and to the fact that you are on it, but actually to go in and check on what kind of sexual partner you have, we believe that in principle you have nothing to do with it. We want to give people with a different sexual orientation protection from being discriminated against on the innocuous basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e554	At the end of the debate, I wanted to comment on the representative Karin Andersen in relation to this with positive discrimination and sex. You don't have to say that, because there can be some people who think of some creative ideas in that direction, too, in order to get some positive discriminatory measures in relation to meeting some specific needs, to put it that way. The Progress Party is too favourably discriminated against by those who need it. But what the majority do in such matters as this is to make society poor. We need to have positive special treatment for some groups – yes, which we also have in common with the whole committee on disability status. Obviously, it has to be arranged in a completely different way. The representative, Andersen, had never been allowed to enter a boxing. So there's protection. That's what we're trying to say by going against this law. There is a law that can be used. That we should introduce a pointless law because other laws are not applied is completely meaningless. The Progress Party is also in favour of negative discrimination, if it can be said, in the form that we have always focused on making demands for human beings to create integration and inclusion, of which the Council of State was concerned. It does not create inclusion and integration with special treatment such as its own institutions, its own swimming lessons, its own pension schemes and its own support schemes for groups because they have special ethnic origins. Then we made them poor at first. Then it becomes like a certain professor from Sweden thought that we are forming societies in society, or, as he said, we are forming enclaves in society. It is the opposite of integration and inclusion. And then finally I'll try again: I still have hopes that the council will catch up to what I'm saying, but today it seems very difficult. The Party of Advancement is against the law in the light of the existence of an existing law. I cannot believe that the Council of State will accuse the State Attorney, the State Attorney and the Ministry of Justice of not realizing that there is discrimination and racism. After all, the National Advocates, the State Advocates and the Ministry of Justice – with changing constellations – agree with the Advance Party. This does not mean that these institutions distance themselves from the possibility of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e570	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e588	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e593	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation in this matter. The Odelstingsproposition is a follow-up to the changes already adopted in the study funding schemes, and it is part of the essential work of modernising the State Lending Fund for Education. The size of the store deals with the changes related to St.meld. No 12 for 2003-2004, cf. Inner. S. No 152 for 2003-2004. The present proposal and the committee setting are, therefore, a review of the current law on training aid for the purposes of simplification, technical adjustment and updating in the light of the decisions taken in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 12th@item: Thus, the Government does not propose any changes to the content of the aid schemes. It is therefore also the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representatives of Evje and Simonsen, do not raise or consider questions relating to the material content of the aid schemes. Any improvements and changes to these arrangements must be considered in the context of the annual budgetary procedures and the Committee's recommendation must be interpreted in the light of this. In the consultation process prior to the proposal and in the course of the Committee's work on the matter, the hearing bodies have been asked to decide on the update, simplification and technical adjustment, not on material changes. Such changes have not been investigated and the proposition does not discuss this either. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the updates and simplifications proposed. It includes both linguistic simplifications and curtailments and clarifications of already existing homes, including: in the regulatory system. In addition, the Act now states that the Education Aid Act is a right law, which means that everyone who fulfils the requirements for receiving support is entitled to do so. It is a codification of past practice. In two areas, a unanimous committee has wanted to keep parts of today’s legal text. These are also the only two areas where the setting is adjusted in relation to the proposition. In Section 1, the purpose paragraph, the preamble to the first indent of sex, geographical, social and economic conditions and age will remain in the legal text. In addition, serviceability is included in the frame. This does not represent any change to the legislation today, nor is the estimation exhaustive. In Section 10 on cancellation, the third paragraph of the paragraph will continue to mention that the Storting may provide a framework for debt forgiveness for borrowers residing in and exercising a profession in Finnmark or other specific parts of the country. Such remission is also today dependent on the framework set by the Storting in the budgetary procedure. In the current year's budget, the Government increased the depreciation rates for borrowers in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. The fact that the bill did not explicitly mention some geographical areas was therefore no change in the scheme – it was a wish to simplify a very detailed and comprehensive section 8 of the current law. The Committee wishes to maintain the mention of geographical areas and therefore incorporates the addendum ‘when the borrower resides in and pursues a profession in Finnmark or other specific parts of the country’ to the third paragraph of Section 10. Paragraphs 13, 14 and 17 now lay down rules on the transfer of tasks from the Loan Fund to the Central Bank of the State, to which a majority of the Stortinget agreed at the Innst. S. No 152 for 2003-2004. The remittance transfer is important for two reasons: firstly, because the loan fund has a large number of long-term and gross default cases, which use a great deal of resources to deal with — resources that should be more beneficial to ordinary borrowers — and secondly, because the central government collection centre has better competence in this type of case and an opportunity to assess the overall financial situation of the defaulter. Thus, they can find better solutions for the defaults. We now get an up-to-date and timely law, in line with the decisions taken by Stortinget in the treatment of Innst. S. No 152 for 2003-2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e619	The Labour Party is concerned that we have training support and legislation that facilitates the principle of equal rights to education – regardless of geographical, age, gender, economic or social conditions. Training aid shall be available to live off during the studies, and not least to live with after the studies. In the consideration of the government’s legislative proposal, the Workers’ Party has not addressed or assessed material issues. This does not mean that we do not believe that there is a need for a general strengthening of study funding. We note that some parties have used the attitude of proposing changes of a material nature, but the Workers' Party is of the opinion that such questions are part of the budgetary procedure. The legislative proposal is primarily a simplification and clarification of the legislation, and the Workers' Party has dealt with this matter. A well-functioning framework for student support, a good loan fund and, in particular, good support schemes are important for students. At the same time, it is essential to ensure the implementation of the Quality Reform. The Labour Party believes that these conditions should be facilitated so that as much as possible can and should be encouraged to take up higher education. As I said, the government's bill deals with issues of a more technical nature, and in this way it does not contain the major controversial issues. The Committee's function is also marked by this. However, there is reason to thank both the case-rapporteur, Mr Ine Marie Eriksen, and the Committee for a good report. The disagreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party is in this area more closely linked to the support for the study and student welfare in general. I'm not going to use time today to debate this right here. Anyway, I'm sure we'll have plenty of time to discuss this until the election. I refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e634	The representative of Karita Bekkelem Orheim has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e637	I will include our suggestions in the setting – this has been done. There is agreement on many aspects of the matter. Nevertheless, the Progress Party has some proposals that we believe it is important to present when we now deal with the law on education support — a number of proposals to assess measures relating to the design and content of training support. The Progress Party believes that a right law on training aid should and must be a right law for Norwegian citizens. The Progress Party assumes that the Government is working towards the conclusion, interpretation and practice of international agreements to which Norway has acceded or is seeking renegotiation. The Progress Party is therefore promoting an alternative proposal for Section 3, which is to be briefly and positively replaced by the following: ‘The law shall apply to Norwegian nationals.’. The Progress Party believes that the recognition of foreign education should be part of the NOCUT’s mandate. It is in line with the references and stresses of the Progress Party that the NOCUT should be the central role of the approval and oversight body of the Norwegian education system. That is why we are also promoting proposals linked to it. The Committee welcomes the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with its own case concerning the organisation and financing of various forms of secondary education abroad. It is assumed that the case also deals with the study trip for the 10th stage of primary school.» This is a note from the treatment of St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, where, at the time, the Progress Party was supported by a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, and which, like many other missions from the majority of the Storting, has been put in the government's drawer for 'hidden and forgotten'. It is good that the entire committee is now involved. I hope that the Council of State will follow up the matter, when the whole committee stands behind. Quality reform calls for both foreign and foreign studies for Norwegian students. For the scholarship share of the school money support and additional grants for Norwegian students studying abroad, compensation is granted if a foreign currency strengthens in relation to the Norwegian krona. However, the cost standard — the total amount to cover the cost of living — is not adjusted in currency. The Progress Party proposes to ask the Government to assess such a currency compensation. The Progress Party also believes that training support needs to be adjusted in line with price and cost developments, and proposes that such regulation be legislated, with reference to the regulation of the basic amounts of the population. Therefore, the Progress Party also supports SV’s proposal that the Government of the State budget for 2006 provide price compensation for the cost standard, which was last regulated in 2002. I think I have a request in the government's drawer for hidden and forgotten. I quote again from the setting: ‘The members of the Committee of the Socialist Left Party, the Progress Party and representatives of Evje and Simonsen refer to previous decisions proposing a partial coverage of the tuition fee for students at the BI School of Commerce in connection with the 2002 State Budget. [[att]] These members are requested again by the Ministry to submit proposals on the partial coverage of the tuition fee for students at the Merchant University of Applied Sciences BI in connection with the 2006 State Budget.’ Further comment should be superfluous. The law is referred to as a right law. Nevertheless, aid schemes have been designed to be dealt with and set out in the annual government budgets. It can be unpredictable for those applying for training. The Party considers that a system of greater predictability should be considered and proposes this. I also refer to the comments of the Progress Party at the Innst. S. No 242 for 2002-2003 on a new support scheme through the Loan Fund for young students in ordinary secondary education. The Progress Party continues to believe that a general loan access should be introduced into the Loan Fund for secondary school students. We believe that the same grant scheme must apply there as in higher education, and propose the introduction of such a scheme. I also remind you that the Progress Party wants training support without any need-to-use testing. We will therefore go against Section 7 and against Section 23. Furthermore, the Progress Party has noted that the State Loan Fund for Education on forwarding notice of futures is charged a fee of DKK 35 and proposes that only the real costs be charged to the borrower. Then I think I've been through most of it, and I've taken up the suggestions that we have. I point out that we have alternative proposals, and that there are two paragraphs we are going to vote against in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e685	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e688	If there is any doubt whether Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has raised proposal No. 1, which is a joint proposal from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, has been taken up, so that there is no doubt that that proposal will be voted on. As others have stressed earlier, this is a legislative adjustment of a largely technical nature. There are few material changes. However, I am pleased that a unanimous committee is now proposing an adjustment to the purpose paragraph, where we clarify even more clearly the purpose of the study aid scheme. I'm glad we've been supported. In addition, I refer to what has been said about internationalisation, exchanges of pupils in primary and secondary schools. It is a separate proposal that a unanimous committee is behind. I also refer to the remark made by a majority, the Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party, which we ask the Government to look at the scheme for Norwegian secondary school students who take one year abroad, and look at the period for which they receive a scholarship. It is important to encourage Norwegian students to take a year abroad, in countries that have a language that is not always easy for them, or that has a school system that is slightly different from the Norwegian one. They often need one more year to complete the Norwegian high school. Then it is important to ensure that they receive scholarships for the entire period until a Norwegian exam. We also ask the Government to look at that arrangement and follow up. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a majority behind this remark. In addition, together with the Progress Party, we propose to look at the cost standard. We made a relatively strong increase in the cost standard in 2002. It's not price adjusted. The real value of the cost standard is probably almost back to the level before the relatively large adjustment we made in 2002. There is now a need to make a readjustment, at least a price adjustment. We are asking the Government to come back with such a change in the 2006 budget. So the Workers' Party and SV want to maintain the arrangement with a separate board of directors. It's actually a little important that students and others have the participation and influence that they have in being represented in a separate board of funds. That is why we propose that this should be maintained. We think it's important that we have our own government that has a special responsibility for the Loan Fund. In addition, ensuring the participation and influence of users in the schemes and systems of the Loan Fund is also an important symbol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e703	The Christian People's Party joins the statements made by the President-in-Office. The purpose of this statutory audit is to simplify and clarify the legislation on education aid. Our hope is that the users of the Staten Loan Fund for Education will receive better service as a result of the amendment of the law. The Christian People's Party has not had ambitions to make material changes to the law in this round. We'd rather come back to that in the annual budgets. As you know, changes will often have economic consequences, and they need to be seen in budgetary terms. I look forward to more such debates in the years to come, like the representative of Mr Bekkelem Orheim. Let me also say it is gratifying that there is agreement on the purpose paragraph of the law. The State Loan Fund for Education is important to realise the principle of equal rights to education for all in our country. It also reflects the purpose paragraph. In the future, it is important that this principle also be implemented for groups that, for various reasons, need specifically organised training courses in order to take up higher education. Once again, it is important to use all the instruments we have within the framework, within the State Lending Fund for Education, but also other welfare systems that exist. I would also like to say that even if we do not legislate the board of directors in the Loan Fund, the Board of State Loan Fund for Education will continue to operate. It's allowed in a big decision, so we have opportunities to do it. I have to say, on the basis of the statement made by the representative of Reikvam, that we are continuing the board of directors in the Loan Fund. Finally, the Christian People's Party will support the vote and vote against the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e716	The legislative proposal is an update, a technical adjustment and necessary simplification of the legislation. This also means that today the Center Party does not propose material changes in the student support for elephants or students. I would like to refer to the notes where the Senterpartiet mentions the cost of the elephants in further education. We think all the elephants have to get support for learning through a proprietary scholarship. I would also like to show our mention of the cost standards and that the students and the elephants have had a real decrease in purchasing power, given that the cost standards are not adjusted in relation to the price increase. When it applies to the students, the Center Party believes that no one is going to pay back to the Loan Fund any more than they have borrowed. The student loan shall only be restated from the end of the study period. All these themes will be brought back to the Central Party in budgetary context. We were very surprised when we recorded that the loan forgiveness scheme for borrowers working in specific geographical areas was signed out of the legal text. We believe that this system is such an important regional policy tool that ensures that selected parts of the country can have a high level of labour force, that it should be legislated and so be careful. We are therefore very pleased that the government party through the committee treatment has listened, and that a collective committee now suggests that this should be incorporated again into the law: ‘The debt may be forfeited, in whole or in part, under conditions laid down by the Storting, when the borrower resides in and pursues a profession in Finnland or other specific parts of the country.’ Two years ago, a committee said that the arrangement of a private board for the Loan Fund should be passed on. The central party believes that the rules on the board should still be passed on to the law, and we propose this in conjunction with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party. I have to stress that, because I notice that the committee leader twice referred to this as a proposal from the Labour Party and SV. So there's also the Center Party. We believe this board is a good ride to secure the most necessary dialogue with the student and student organisations in the management of education support.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e732	It is registered that the Centre Party is involved in the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e736	Thank you for the word, I had barely drawn. I'm not going to take a long time. I am, of course, satisfied with the Committee's position on this matter and will confirm that I have noticed where there are changes to the legislative text and the proposals for decisions that have been mentioned here in previous articles. In terms of purpose, it was the ministry's view that we were not more specific because the law could then appear to be restrictive. But now I have noticed that the case rapporteur here has said that the list that has now been included in the objective is not to be considered exhaustive. This is an important clarification, and it is therefore quite unproblematic. I would like to say the same about Section 10 and forgiveness, where one has also been more specific about the geographical references. It's also completely unproblematic, as I see it. So I've noticed the majority comment about high school students and opportunities to stay abroad. I'd like to get back to that question. Of course, it's a question that could have economic consequences, but then we'll also explain it. So I've also noticed minority comments of a different kind. I noticed the minority comment that is a reference to an earlier majority comment, on tuition fees at BI. I also want to say that there are some other minority comments where it might not be the greatest real disagreement, but where you might also come back to questions. One such is e.g. any progress party has been concerned about, who is to conduct recognition of foreign education. I guess it's okay to have a relatively pragmatic attitude to it. Then I agree with those who have said that there are other opportunities to come back to material changes. It is, of course, in the annual budgets, but I would also like to add that we are in the process of conducting a new cost-of-living study for higher education students, which will also provide a better basis for assessing the financial situation of students after the material changes that have taken place for some time have been made and the quality reform has been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e753	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e761	The Odelsting should then be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e769	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Kristian Hogsnes on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Hans Kristian Hogsnes on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3 and 4, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e830	There is an alternative proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 64 is replaced by the following:§ 64 Definition. Access to the development contract For the purposes of this Act, development agreements shall mean an agreement between the municipality and the builder or landowner for the development of an area, which has its basis in the municipal authority as a planning authority under this Act. A development agreement is to be regarded as an individual decision under Section 2 of the Administrative Act.The Communities may conclude development agreements within the framework of public procurement and within the limits imposed by the rules of this Chapter.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e888	There is an alternative proposal, No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 64b, third and fourth paragraphs, shall be replaced by the following: The agreement may also require the landowner or the builder to provide for or to finance, in whole or in part, measures necessary for the implementation of plan decisions. Such measures must be proportionate to the nature and extent of the development and the contribution of the municipality to the implementation of the plan and obligations under the agreement. The costs incurred by the builder or owner of the measure must be proportionate to the burden on the municipality of the development in question.In any case, the agreement may relate to the advance of municipal measures necessary for the implementation of plan decisions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e942	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 64(d) is replaced by the following:§ 64(d). Complaints and conversions The landowner or builder who is a party to the agreement and others with interest in appeal may appeal against the decision on extension agreements under the rules of Section 15 of the Planning and Building Act. Nevertheless, no complaint can be made on matters on which there is access to appeal in the plan decision. The Board of Appeal may confirm or revoke a decision on a development agreement.For the purpose of converting the decision on a development agreement, the rules of the last paragraph of Section 20-5 and 28-1 apply as far as the issue of conversion relates to matters for which the municipalities have made provision in the area part of the municipal plan, area plan or detailed plan. Other changes to development agreements follow the rules on the conversion of individual municipal decisions by the State body, see the second to fifth subparagraphs of Section 35 of the Administrative Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e973	During the debate, there was an error in the configuration. Paragraph 64(e) is replaced by the following: ‘The Ministry may provide additional rules on contractual requirements, types of measures that may be covered, including the non-contractual nature of specified measures and the manner in which the terms of the contract are to be implemented.’;» This section contains an alternative proposal, No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 64e is replaced by the following:§ 64e. Prescriptions The Ministry may lay down additional rules on the requirements for the conclusion of the contract, types of measures which may be covered and the manner in which the terms of the contract are to be implemented.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1023	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1033	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1043	B is in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1050	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3, 4 and 5, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1119	The President will first raise the third paragraph of Paragraph 38.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1130	It is then weighed over the other paragraphs of Section 38. The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1223	It is first voted on § 38a first and sixth paragraphs, as the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will oppose them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1235	The remainder of Section 38(a) and the first paragraph of Section 38(b) are then contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1245	The second paragraph of Section 38b, first to fourth sentences, is then added. There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 5, from the Progress Party: ‘In Law No 24 June 1988 64 on the admission of foreigners to the Kingdom and their residence here is amended as follows: the first to fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Article 38b shall be replaced by the following: [[Law on Foreign Affairs]] Three heads of department and six members are involved in dealing with issues of major importance. Two of the members are drawn from among those appointed on proposals from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Jurists' Association. One member shall be drawn from among those appointed on a proposal from humanitarian organisations. The remaining three members shall be drawn from among those appointed on a proposal from the three largest opposition parties represented in the Stortinget.The fourth to sixth sentences shall be fifth to seventh sentences.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1267	The remainder of the second paragraph of Section 38(b) and the other paragraphs of Section 38(b) are then contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1287	Paragraph 42, fourth paragraph, first sentence, contains an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right and Christian Party: ‘In Law No 24 June 1988 64 on the admission of foreigners to the Kingdom and their residence here is amended as follows: the first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 42 shall be replaced by the following: [[Law on Foreign Affairs]] In the case referred to in the fourth paragraph of Section 38, the foreigner shall have the right to free legal advice without examination.’ The vote will be taken first on the vote and then on the motion. The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1310	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Progress Party and the Centre are now supporting the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1320	It is then voted over the rest of the fourth paragraph of Section 42. The party of progress has announced that they are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1368	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1378	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1386	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 4, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, no. 5, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1-4 is included in the adjustment, while enriched proposal No. 5 is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1454	The party of progress has announced their opposition. The party of progress has also announced that they will go against the whole law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1473	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law prohibiting discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, religion, etc. The following shall be amended as follows:Article 4, second paragraph, reads as follows: Direct discrimination means that an act or omission has the object or effect of treating persons or undertakings on the basis referred to in the first subparagraph worse than others are being, has been or would have been treated in the same situation.» [[Discrimination laws]] The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1494	Now that the proposal has been adopted, this position replaces it, which thus lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1502	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 is a correction to the text of the amendment, and the rapporteur pointed out that the last sentence should read ‘set’ instead of ‘set’. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, which will replace the setting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Article 4 shall be replaced by the following:Indirect discrimination means any apparent neutral provision, condition, practice, action or omission which results in persons or undertakings being made worse by circumstances as referred to in the first subparagraph than others in the corresponding situation.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1523	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party to Section 4, third paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 4 shall be replaced by the following: Indirect discrimination shall mean any apparent neutral provision, condition, practice, action or omission which results in persons being placed on a particularly unfavourable basis in relation to others because of the circumstances referred to in the first subparagraph. Indirect discrimination in employment means any seemingly neutral provision, condition, practice, action or omission which actually renders a jobseeker or employee worse than other jobseekers or workers because of the circumstances referred to in the first subparagraph.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are now supporting the proposal in a subsidiary way. The party of progress is against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1578	The party of progress will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1605	It is the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party that are behind the setting under this paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1618	No, it's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1625	The President proposes that we take the vote again. So the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind this paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1725	When § 8 is rejected, §§ 9-18 of the bill becomes §§ 8-17. The party of progress will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1781	The President makes it clear that this paragraph is now paragraph 17. There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal concerns the first paragraph and the second paragraph, point (d). The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 135a of the Penal Code is replaced by the following:He who deliberately or grossly negligently makes a discriminatory or hateful statement is punished by fines or imprisonment for up to 2 years. The penal code § 135(d) is replaced by the following:(d) disability. ‘... We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1808	It is then votered over § 135a of the adjustment. The party of progress is against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1832	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 349a of the Penal Code shall be replaced by the following:With a fine or imprisonment of up to 6 months, the person who, in the course of an acquisition or similar activity, is penalised for his religion or view of life, disability, skin colour or national or ethnic origin, refuses goods or services under the conditions applicable to others.’ We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1851	It is then voted over the setting of the first paragraph of § 349a. The party of progress is against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1888	The party of progress is against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1913	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Work Environment Act § 54D nr. 4 is replaced by the following:4. The employer must not, in the call for new workers or in any other way, require applicants to provide information on how they address political, religious or cultural issues or whether they are members of employee organisations. Corresponding prohibitions shall apply to information on the applicant’s sexual orientation or form of life. Nor must the employer take action to obtain such information by other means. These provisions shall not apply where such information is justified by the exemption from the prohibition of discrimination in paragraph 54 D. 1st@item: inlistbox In the event that such information will be required, this must be stated in the vacancy notice. § 54D nr. Section 54D paragraph 5 is deleted; 6 becomes a number. 5.’» We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e1939	It is then votered over § 54 D nr. 4th@item: inlistbox The party of progress will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2105	The party of progress has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2118	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2130	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2151	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2159	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the representative Ursula Evje and the representative Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Socialist Group, No. 4-11, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party, the representative Ursula Evje and the representative Jan Simonsen
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2259	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 4, from the Progress Party, the representative of Ursula Evje and the representative of Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2303	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 5, from the Progress Party, the representative of Ursula Evje and the representative of Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2346	We shall then vote on proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, the representative Ursula Evje and the representative Jan Simonsen, which concerns the new fourth paragraph of Section 5. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 5 the following fourth paragraph is added: The amount of training aid shall be regulated annually by the same amount as the basic amount of the Social Security Fund.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2391	Here the Progress Party has signaled that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2427	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2. from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the representative of Ursula Evje and the representative of Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 8 is replaced by the following: The borrower may be charged the actual costs of forwarding a forwarding notice, as well as late payment charges. In addition, the borrower may be charged fees and costs associated with the collection of training loans.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2513	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, which relate to the new first paragraph of Section 16. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 16 shall be replaced by the following: The loan fund is managed by a board of five members with personal alternates. The Governing Board shall be appointed by the King for a period of up to 3 years. The King shall determine who shall be the Chairperson and Vice-Chair of the Governing Board. The Management Board shall be established in the presence of at least three members.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2606	Here the Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2642	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2652	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-19-lower-2.ana.ud2014e2662	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure.
