ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e122	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e125	I am delighted to make a proposal to ask the Government to move the Norwegian Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to the capital of Israel, Jerusalem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e130	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e144	St. Report. No 24 deals with «a dark spot» in the history of Norwegian Child Protection. This is a bad cause for the matters involved. Much pain and great injustice have led to the destruction of many both their childhood and their adult life. This is a serious matter for a group of committees to deal with. So who were these kids? According to the Mapping Selection, children tended to come to orphanages because they needed protection, usually against harmful home conditions, and because they lack care. It was also more and more common in the 1945–1980 review period that harmful conditions could be poverty, or that mother was sick or worn out – even so-called reprehensible moral conduct could be a cause for care. Ideological assessments were also made. On the one hand, harmful factors were that growing conditions were characterised by insecurity, understimulation and poverty, and on the other hand ideological and moral assessments could be the basis for taking care. In the case of a special ball, the location was based on gender-specific grounds. Girls were often placed due to malpractice, while boys were placed due to nocturnal and profit-criminalism. I would like to stress that according to the selection, very few of these guys had committed very serious or dangerous criminal acts. The survey also states that, in addition to care failure, there were serious physical, mental and sexual violations in the orphanages. Example of this is stuff, mistreatment, suffocation, punching with a stick, shut-out in the naked state in winter cold, locking in dark cellar spaces and iron burning. The central element was the use of painful methods and various forms of liberation. When it comes to sexual assault, these injuries were done by both adding and older elephants. When the range is concerned, the selection is based on an estimate. There is a basis for believing that care failure occurred in most orphanages and special schools. It is also likely that physical and criminal offences of various kinds have occurred frequently. When it comes to sexual assault, a so-called conservative estimate shows that 2 pst. by boys and 4 pst. The girls were exposed to this, while a radical estimate is significantly higher: 12 pst. for the boys and 24 pst. when it applies to the girls. Despite large differences in these estimates, however, the Monitoring Selection concludes that during the period 1945–1980 there has been a significant occurrence of sexual abuse in children’s institutions, and that the vast majority of the offences have been committed. So to the setting itself: In the setting, a collective committee determines that many former orphans and children from special schools were subjected to serious care failure and abuse. This is very well documented in the mapping selection report. The unworthy conditions that have been uncovered in orphanages and special schools in the period 1945-1980 should never have occurred, and the Committee stresses that in the future one cannot allow this to happen. A large group of children have had their childhood ruined and suffered a lot of pain throughout their lives because of the injustice and abuse they were subjected to. I allow myself to ask all these children for cause on behalf of the great community. The Committee agrees that there is a special responsibility on the State in this matter. There were interventions from the public that led to these children being placed in institutions and special schools with the aim that children should have a better life situation. The public thus plays an active role in children being removed from their homes, and for children's homes and special schools to take on the responsibility of care. In many cases, there were public representatives who were at a disadvantage, and the public has also been responsible for the fact that in many cases there is lack of evidence or complete absence of evidence. Accordingly, the Committee is in favour of the Stortinge awarding compensation under an extended and adapted legal compensation scheme for former orphans and special schoolchildren of up to DKK 300000. The fact that the Stortinget thus increases the maximum amount of the legal compensation scheme by 50 p.m., from 200 000 kroner to 300000 kroner, indicates that the Stortinget wishes to underline the unacceptable fact that public placement in the institution in many cases resulted in abuse and care failure. The Committee acknowledges that it may be difficult to document care failures and physical and sexual abuses that are often decades behind schedule. To this end, the Committee notes that there is a need to reduce the burden of proof and to attach great importance to own-initiative opinions. The Committee considers that the self-declaration shall be decisive in the application for compensation. In addition to its own declaration, the Committee believes that it should be accompanied by a confirmation stating each and every time that the person concerned had resided in a children's home or special school. I would also like to note that children of Kinderheim who have previously applied for legal compensation may rescan search under the adapted and extended compensation scheme, regardless of whether they have received support in the past or not. The Committee acknowledges that an extended judicial remedy is not intended to cover the financial loss suffered by the applicant. The point is to give some financial compensation for the gross injustice that has been done. Once again, I would like to make it clear that the Committee acknowledges that the State can unquestionably be blamed for the injustice that has occurred. The state has also, in many respects, been involved in the maculating of evidence of what has happened. The Committee has therefore underlined the importance of ensuring that all relevant documentation and all public papers comply with the rules laid down in the Code of Conduct for 80 years. The Committee has assessed national responsibilities. It is up to the municipalities themselves to decide whether they will initiate municipal investigations. In this case, the Ministry will develop national guidelines. It is also up to the municipalities to decide how to claim compensation. The Committee emphasises that even if an extended judicial remedy is adopted, it will not deter the individual in this group from going to the action for damages on the basis of the same circumstances. In this context, the Committee has stressed that aging should not be involved in matters relating to this group. Finally, the Committee urges that children who were placed by the public in foster homes should also be included in this scheme. I would like to suggest the setting that a co-ordinate's committee is standing again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e178	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2773]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e194	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e203	As the rapporteur, I am pleased that the Committee has united unanimously in its comments on the evaluation of the maximum price. Evaluation of the maximum price in kindergartens is largely enjoyable reading. Kindergartens are built as never before. Many children have had kindergartens, and they have had them at a lower price. There has been no such commitment and positive development in the kindergarten sector in the past. It's an expression that the elements of the Greatness Agreement have worked. I am also pleased that a unanimous committee once again stresses in the setting that the objectives and choice of instruments, as laid down in the kindergarten agreement, are firm. The Committee also notes that we will only know the need for kindergartens once the maximum price of Stage 2 has been introduced, and the Committee expects the need for full-time facilities and new places to increase further. That being said, we can't say that we're satisfied that we're not in the goal. Many parents feel that they have failed around the municipalities that have far from full coverage. I understand that they believe that we have not kept our promises. Let me take a short flashback: Before the kindergarten reform, there were more than $4,000 for a kindergarten. There were large price differences around the country, not least between municipal and private kindergartens. The extension was stopped, and kindergartens were closed. Many young children's parents wanted kindergarten, but they didn't get it, because there was not enough room. A lot of people couldn't afford a place either. There is no doubt that the kindergarten agreement has reversed the negative development we have had in kindergarten development. Five times more full-time jobs are built in 2004 than in 2000. Prices have been reduced and sibling moderation has also been introduced in almost all private kindergartens. In the kindergarten agreement, it was agreed that a maximum price of DKK 1750 would be introduced from 1 August 2005, assuming that almost full demand coverage was reached in 2005. I am disappointed that the Government believes that the maximum price step 2 should be pushed out on time, without time fixing when you intend to introduce step 2. The government now says that full needs will be met with a maximum price of NOK 2 750 during 2006. The signals we have received indicate that it will be built approx. 17 000 new places in 2005, and we know that there were 15 000 children in kindergarten queues at the turn of the year. I will describe this as an almost full coverage in 2005. SV will therefore introduce stage 2 maximum price from 1 August 2005. There's a link between price and demand. The lower the price, the greater the demand. We now have this experience with the introduction of the maximum price step 1. A postponement of stage 2 will lead to a postponement of the implementation of the kindergarten reform. We do not want to know the need for kindergarten places until the maximum price step 2 has been in place for a while in this country. The introduction of the maximum price was part of the nursery arrangement, and it was supported by a unanimous increase. It was a promise we gave to young children’s parents with children in kindergarten. SV will guarantee that we will introduce the maximum price step 2. We're going to have full babysitting, and we're going to give children a legal right to babysitting. This is what we'll give the highest priority if we get into government. In the absence of kindergartens, a number of family farms have been established. SV believes it should be easier for small family farms to merge into a qualitatively good offer. This must be followed up in regulations for approval and operation as a result of the Children's Court Act and the Framework Plan. It should also be considered to establish childcare facilities in the municipalities with a guidance offer and a public quality assurance and an overview of the overall offer. It has been a problem to get the municipality to maintain the nominal level of kindergartens, as provided for in the childcare arrangement. The SV has therefore proposed that the Government in the 2006 budget should make ‘what instruments it would be appropriate to use in relation to municipalities that do not implement the financing of kindergartens as determined by the Stortinget’. I'm taking up our suggestions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e237	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e240	There is no doubt that the nursery arrangement has led to a violent uplift for the kindergartens and for the parents, who are dependent on getting good care for their children. There has been a strong growth in the number of kindergartens. Very many parents have experienced a severe price drop, and the bet on kindergartens across the country has shot speed. Nevertheless, we have not come as far as we had as ambition when we entered the kindergarten agreement here in Stortinget. A large majority agreed with the objective of achieving full child-care coverage during 2005. The goal of full child care coverage has been a repetition of Norwegian policy. In the 1990s, we talked about getting through by 2000. We know what happened. In 1997, cash support came, and kindergarten expansion fell into the cellar. It was very late, and when the government parties – the current ones – took over in 2001, the Sem Declaration had the ambition to have full child care coverage in 2003. You couldn't do that either. The kindergarten agreement took the consequences and set the stage for 2005. But we have to see in our eyes that once again we are going to meet the voters in a big elections without having achieved the goal. It could probably be discussed up and down why we didn't achieve that goal, but I think one of the reasons was that the information about the various support schemes was too late. It was too slow before municipalities and private developers realized that what they invested in new kindergartens was fully covered in operation, that this was not a burden on them. But luckily, it seems that many have understood, and the preliminary figures for 2005, as we hear, indicate that now it's really happening. So we said in the kindergarten agreement that in spring 2005 we would make the final decision as to whether to introduce the maximum price step 2 from 1 August, as the nursery agreement described. Here, the different parties had slightly different views. Some people claim that we actually agreed that the prerequisite for introducing the maximum price step 2 was that it had become full child care coverage. That's not right. We should take that assessment on a free basis in spring 2005. From the Workers' Party we believe that the maximum price should have been introduced from 1 August. We note that government parties argue that a maximum price of step 2 could delay the development of kindergartens. We do not agree with such a description. There's two reasons for that. One is that the assumption is that the government is going to cover the loss of income suffered by kindergartens by reducing the price by NOK 1000. You lose 1000 kroner from your parents, but you get 1000 kroner from the state. It was going to go straight up, and it wasn't going to affect the kindergarten development to an appreciable extent. But the second and most important reason is that in a majority of municipalities there is now full child care coverage. There is not a single nursery until a new need is revealed, and it is only revealed when you get the price down. So a postponement of the maximum price step 2 will actually in very many municipalities lead to the postponement of kindergarten expansion and actually a slower kindergarten expansion than we would otherwise have. So, in the kindergarten agreement, we agreed that when we introduce the maximum price step 2, we also need to have a different code for which things it is possible to get more payment for. It could be food, it could be extra pedagogic, and it could be particularly nice outdoor areas, etc. These rules are, in fact, impossible to put in place until 1 August. To imagine that thousands of kindergartens are going to be able to deal with a whole new code and implement it in 1 1/2 months, and where one of those months is likely to be vacation, is simply unrealistic, and throwing the kindergarten sector into new, fast transitions we don't think is right. That is why we say from the Labour Party that we want to introduce the maximum price step 2 from 1 January 2006. That's what we want to do, because then we'll have time to convert the legislation while we get the maximum price of step 2 so fast that kindergarten development goes on. Finally, I would also like the Council of State to note that the Committee points out that some kindergartens still do not follow the rules on sibling moderation, as stated in the proposal. It must be obvious that all kindergartens receiving public support follow the legislation and regulations that exist and must be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e261	We are now in the final stage of the kindergarten reform. The goal of the Right and Government is clear: kindergarten for everyone who wants it. It is essential to ensure genuine freedom of choice for parents. The ability to choose between kindergarten and cash support, or a combination of these two schemes for the smallest children, is an important part of the Right Growth Policy. Both the main objectives of the Government and the Storting are full child care coverage. I am therefore pleased that the government's kindergarten expansion must be said to stand at the dice throw six. During this ageing period, 25 000 more children have been offered nursery services. There is every reason to give homage to both municipal and private nursery owners and builders and to congratulate them on their efforts. Ensuring full child-care coverage will always be a moveable objective influenced by changes in state framework conditions, population changes and changes in other social conditions. It is a challenge to target moving goals, and it has been interesting to see how the Government’s instruments have influenced development and triggered new needs. In particular, I think it has been interesting to see the large increase in demand for full-time kindergartens after the introduction of step 1 of the max. price reform. Many parents wanted to extend the period of residence in the nursery when prices were reduced, and this has meant that it has taken longer than provided that full needs are met. The government assumes that the most realistic thing is to assume that the full coverage target will be achieved in 2006. Stable framework conditions are and have been important to ensure that full needs are met. The evaluation shows that the reform has been properly funded so far. So it hasn't been on money. But even though the goal of full kindergarten coverage is closer than ever, it is important to keep pace up. There are still many children who do not have the childcare space they need, and it is therefore very important that work on expanding the sector continues with unrestricted strength. I believe that this is a good solution The government has chosen, when it has now informed the municipalities in the municipality proposal that the operating and investment grants for the kindergartens should be earmarked in 2006. In doing so, the Government has granted a new deadline for those municipalities that have not reached the target to reach full childcare coverage. The right is concerned about making babysitting available to everyone who wants it, before we put down the price of the places further. If we don't, we quickly get into the same unfortunate situation as before, where only those who have been given room benefit from state subsidies. It thinks the Right is both unfair and unsocial. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about when we approach almost full child care coverage, and it would therefore be unfortunate, in my opinion, to fix an introduction of the maximum price step 2 now. In line with the kindergarten agreement, the job is no. 1 to give full priority to childcare. I am pleased that the Progress Party supports the government parties in that it is more important to provide room for everyone who wants it than to give up the price for those who already have room. Another important element of the childcare arrangement is the equal treatment of daycare facilities in relation to government grants. The past decade’s formidable development in the nursery sector is due to a very good interaction between private and public owners and builders. The kindergarten sector has benefited from the private founding and commitment shown by private actors, and it has created greater diversity and is a greater freedom of choice for young children’s parents. The kindergarten agreement requires that equivalent treatment be phased in. All the parties agree on this. I am pleased that one of the main objectives of the first phase of the phase-in phase has been achieved, namely that both municipal and non-municipal kindergartens have been able to comply with the maximum price rules, to the delight of many parents. The decline in private kindergarten rates was much more pronounced than in the municipalities and has reduced the difference between municipal and private kindergarten rates. The aim of the size was to ensure maximum price and moderation arrangements in all kindergartens, and the Right is satisfied with the results we have now achieved. While there is some disagreement as to the models to be used for non-discrimination in the future, the Right considers that it is now important to complete phase-in of equivalent treatment and that the principle of unity should then be applied. Although the objective of full childcare coverage has not been achieved, very many young children’s parents are in a better position today than at the beginning of this ageing period. Substantially improved child care coverage, increased diversity of childcare facilities and cash support for those who want to do so have given parents valuable freedom so that they can choose the care solution that best suits the family. I think the parents really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e287	The election campaign has begun. We hear that SV wants a maximum price step 2 introduced from 1 August, and that the Workers' Party wants a maximum price step 2 from 1 January 2006, despite the fact that we do not have an approach to full kindergarten coverage. So we've got cheaper places. We've done that. And we've been able to offer full-time places to far more than we really thought. It is significant when we hear SV talking, but they must remember that in order for one new child to have a place, 1.43 new full-time places must be built. It's done a formidable job, but I don't have the conscience to leave anyone on the outside of the fence. I also have to take a little distance from what the representative Sjøli said, for Objective No. 1 and top priority is not full kindergarten coverage, but it is one of the premises that we should be able to introduce the maximum price step 2. So the goal is full non-discrimination and maximum price step 2. The kindergarten agreement has led to a very positive development in the kindergarten sector. The broad agreement was intended to provide political peace around a major and important welfare reform in Norway. The most important thing for the Progress Party, in addition to the maximum price, was that we decided that there should be equal treatment between private and public kindergartens. For the Progress Party, two factors are very important in relation to the introduction of the maximum price step 2. Firstly, there must be almost full child-care coverage before step 2. What does that mean? For the Progress Party, it means that those who want it have a real opportunity to have a kindergarten. Then – and only then – it is right to introduce the maximum price step 2. It's very difficult for us to leave thousands of kindergarten children on the outside of the fence and look into those who get a very reasonable nursery place. It would be a gross discrimination against Norwegian citizens on which we cannot participate. Now both the SV and the Workers' Party will probably claim that discrimination will always be. Yes, she can. But when we introduce the maximum price step 2, there comes a new wave of parents who want kindergarten, who have waited until the price was low – so they have chosen another solution in the past. There will be no discrimination. We have to assume that there may be a new wave of applicants after the maximum price step 2 has been introduced. Therefore, it is important not to remove all incentives for the construction of kindergartens immediately. We're going to have to take this into a budget debate since then. Another point is that if the cash support disappears, even more children will need nursery facilities. The SV and the Workers' Party have not taken into account in their alternative state budgets. What are they going to do with these kids? They have only budgeted the savings by cutting the cash support, not the cost increase by having to finance the increased demand for nursery facilities that the cut will entail. When you remove an offer, there should almost be a substitute for this. It'll hardly do if the Working Party and SV get it as they like. For the Progress Party, the cash support and affordable priced babysitting are two sides of the same case, namely the possibility for parents to make real choices. If you remove one, you really lose the option. Then all children will end up in the nursery, and the public will be fully responsible for your child from the age of eight months. It's a development that worries me a lot, but it certainly fits well for the socialists. The essential thing for the Progress Party is that you have approximated full child care coverage before introducing a maximum price, which is completely in line with the kindergarten agreement. Finally, SV is talking about political contempt, but I have to warn SV. It is not the Progress Party that creates unrealistic expectations among the families of young children and the disquiet among the kindergarten owners. We are on the verge of full coverage before introducing the maximum price step 2. The fact that SV plays with numbers and makes it sound as if it is already full child care coverage cannot and will not take responsibility for the Advance Party. If there is created political contempt, the jam will take its share of that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e304	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the municipalities are building kindergartens like never before, and that over 95 pst. by the kindergartens pay the maximum price or less. The reduction in price has been highest in private kindergartens, so that the previous price differences between public and private kindergartens are almost balanced. More than 25 000 new children have had kindergarten seats, and government appropriations for the kindergarten sector have increased from just under 7 billion in 2001 to less than 12 billion in 2005. In the 2003 kindergarten agreement, it was established that the maximum parental payment price in kindergartens should be introduced in two stages. The first stage was introduced with effect from 1 May 2004. Provided that the objective of full childcare was achieved during 2005, Step 2 was to be implemented with effect from 1 August of this year. The objective of full needs coverage is not to be achieved during 2005, and therefore, in line with the kindergarten agreement, the time for the introduction of step 2 at the maximum price has to be postponed. The reason why full childcare coverage is not achieved in 2005 is the structural consequences of the introduction of the first stage of the maximum price. Lower parental pay makes it attractive for parents with children in part-time working in kindergarten to expand it to full capacity. It is therefore necessary to create more new places than new children to enter kindergartens. The Christian People's Party believes that kindergarten places for all are more important than the rapid introduction of further cuts in parental pay to those who already have room, and we are pleased that a broad majority, all with the exception of the Socialist Left, want a postponement of the maximum price step 2. The Socialist Left Party claims that there is no reason to wait with a maximum price of step 2 because 15 000 children were in kindergarten queues at the turn of the year, and the predictions from the Ministry of Children and the Family say that they do. 17 000 new places in 2005. Then SV forgets the structure change from part-time to full-time. 17 000 places does not mean that 17 000 new children can fit. In 2004, we had to build 1.43 new full-time places to bring in one new child. In addition, we have to take into account those who are actually going to implement what we decide. 70 pst. in the ECON Analysis study, municipalities have replied that the deadlines for the implementation of the maximum price and equivalent treatment were too short. The evaluation of the child care reform carried out by social and business research on behalf of the KS confirms that the time aspect is what most municipalities have experienced as problematic. Only one in four municipalities believe that they had sufficient time to implement the reform. These are honest feedback from those who have felt the reform on the body. As politicians, we must listen to that. The goal of the Christian People's Party is full coverage during 2006. It's realistic. Once full coverage is reached, we will also introduce maximum price step 2. For municipalities it is more beneficial than ever to establish new kindergartens. The State completes new places of normal standard through an investment grant and an earmarked operating grant. In addition, new sites are triggering beauties from the state that cover what would otherwise be the municipality's market share for the operation of the new sites. Through the discretionary means, municipalities are also compensated for the increased costs associated with the legislation for the equivalent treatment of municipal and non-municipal kindergartens. Many children are eight to nine hours in kindergarten every day. They also deserve a high-quality offer. Therefore, kindergarten owners must be able to go beyond the maximum price if quality is affected. The Christian People's Party believes that the rule of exception related to the quality of the nursery provision should also be continued when step 2 of the maximum price is introduced. The exemption provision shall apply primarily if manning needs to be reduced to such an extent that the pedagogical offer is significantly affected. We must not be so focused on the price that we lose focus on children's everyday lives. The educational offer is the very foundation of the kindergarten. Qualified staff are essential for children to have a good working life. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the parental payment must be able to go beyond the maximum price when the quality is threatened, assuming that the parental council gives its consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e330	The Storting Message shows that introducing the maximum price step 1 in the kindergarten reform works according to Stortinget’s intention when we adopted the reform. Practically all kindergartens have introduced a maximum price. The next step in the kindergarten reform is the introduction of step 2. The center party would like to see that we had achieved the goal of full needs coverage. Although both private and municipal kindergarten owners have made a significant effort, we lack about 15 000 kindergartens. The fact that over 18 000 new sites are under construction or planning is very pleasing, and it gives a positive signal that one can reach the target of full needs coverage early in 2006. The Central Party is committed to the decision in the Kindergarten Reform that the maximum price step 2 should be introduced when there is almost full coverage of needs. The 2006 budget proposal should provide a good indication of developments in the kindergarten sector. I think that the Stortinget should then have a better basis than today to decide when the maximum price step 2 can be introduced. I hope that the Council of State in its article can also get a little bit involved in the progress of when we can expect to get a little more firmer hold when it concerns the number of seats. After the central party's view, we should introduce step 2 as soon as it is practically possible when we have reached the goal of nearly full coverage. The centre party would stress that the kindergarten reform should be fully funded, which was also part of the conciliation process. The State contribution should and should be ear-marked until we have reached full needs coverage. I have noticed that the department of the message does not recommend the introduction of the unit cost principle at present, and that the department gives it the basis that it will result in a monthly redistribution of public funds for the municipal sector – mainly from municipal kindergartens to private kindergartens. The message says that without reallocation, this will result in an extra cost of NOK 1.3 billion per person. years. It is also shown that this would be contrary to the kindergarten agreement on state full funding. The message also points to a pressed community economy as an argument for not joining it now. I note that the Ministry recommends instead a combination of the cost-coverage principle and the unit-cost principle, with the changes KS has made in its hearing response. The changes are limited to the fact that changes in the grant decisions that will increase the costs of municipalities are fully covered by the State. The central part of the message is fully shared by the Government with the view that it has attached to this message. I also expect that when we get the 2006 budget proposal, we will have a review of the economic situation when it comes to both private and municipal kindergartens, and that a proposal will be presented on how the Government has planned this funding. Otherwise, the setting shows that there is a relatively wide cross-political settlement in relation to the kindergarten reform, even when it relates to the maximum price and full coverage of needs. Now we have introduced step 1. The centre party hopes that we will get full coverage early in 2006, and then it will be step 2. Like the representative from the Progress Party, I would like to point out that we do not have to ignore the fact that there will be a new and greater need for childcare space when the price is significantly reduced. We're set to follow this up, and I'll finally stress that only when everyone who wants to do that gets a kindergarten, do young children's parents have real choice when it comes to the form of care for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e349	I'm glad to say that during the period of ageing that is about to happen, kindergarten policy has been more focused than ever. At the tame of the period, Stortinget also deals with two important issues about kindergartens. Odelstingen will be considering proposals for new kindergarten laws later today to strengthen the prerequisite for the kindergarten to provide children with care and a good educational offer. The Storing Communication on the evaluation of the maximum price addresses the largest reform in the kindergarten sector so far. The Communication explains the results of the kindergarten reform so far and the way forward. Tomorrow it is two years since the kindergarten agreement was concluded. The main elements of the agreement were launched just over a year ago. The evaluation is broadly positive, especially when we consider the scale of the reform and the short time period for its implementation. We've managed to increase the rate of expansion, so the goal of full coverage is within reach. We've met the objective of introducing the maximum price. We have, through new financial instruments and the equivalent treatment regulation, maintained the operating conditions of introducing the maximum price, despite the fact that the cost situations of kindergartens and municipalities were initially very different. The latest development figures and forecasts show that more kindergartens are being built now than in a long time. Many new children have been accommodated in kindergarten in 2004, and there has been a significant increase in the number of full-time jobs. Measured in the number of hours of residence, the development of the sector is about five times as high in 2004 as it was at the end of the previous metropolitan period. The Government considers that the remaining development will have been completed during 2005 and 2006. I am pleased that the majority at Stortinget agrees with the Government that full coverage is most important now, and that the maximum price step 2 is not implemented until full coverage is reached. The evaluation also shows that the introduction of the maximum price has in all cases had a desired effect. The housing payment is reduced and the price differences between private and municipal kindergartens are almost balanced. Almost all parents with children in kindergarten pay the maximum price or less. The evaluation also shows that some municipalities and kindergartens are in breach of the regulations on sibling moderation. I will follow this up, and I will make sure that the parents are familiar with the possibility to complain about the determination of the parental payment. The notification also deals with economically equivalent treatment. The main objective of the first phase of the phase-in of equivalent treatment has been to enable kindergartens to introduce maximum prices despite large variations in cost levels. The evaluation shows that this objective has been met. From 1 August this year, the next phase of the phase-in of equivalent treatment is initiated. Six out of ten private kindergartens will then receive increased government grants. The goal of the Government is fully equivalent treatment through equal grants to all kindergartens in each municipality. The government will return to this issue in the 2006 budget. Although some elements of the kindergarten reform remain, I am pleased to be able to establish that the main frameworks have been established, and that we are closer by achieving the objectives of full coverage, lower parental pay and economically equivalent treatment. This has brought us a long step towards real freedom of choice for young children's parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e366	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e370	I have a question for the Council of State regarding the relationship between the maximum price and the rate of expansion. We've already put in place a maximum price system, and you might say that if you could get paid freely in the kindergartens, you might have built up faster, because then there would have been more money to make, you could push more of the bills over to your parents, and investors might then have a greater chance of profit. But now we have a max price regime in place. And then we're talking about introducing max. 2, which is really just moving some of the expenses from the parents over to the state. It will reveal a greater need and thus make the queues longer, but the queues already exist, they are just not visible, because of the high kindergarten price. On the contrary, the expansion of kindergartens may go faster, especially in those municipalities that already have kindergarten coverage, but also in those municipalities where the queue is longer, there will be further pressure to build faster. Can the Council explain to me why a maximum price of 2 will actually delay the development of kindergarten? In my reasoning, it's actually the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e377	Firstly, I would like to state that in the kindergarten agreement it is stated that the maximum price step 2 is to be introduced on condition that we reach almost full coverage in 2005. That's my starting point. We don't seem to be able to reach it now. Then we are concerned that the introduction of step 2 may have consequences that may have a negative impact on the development of those municipalities that have not achieved the goal of full needs coverage. Some of the reasons are that there is a huge reform we are implementing, at a very rapid pace. This has been a major challenge both for municipalities and for private developers. The suspension is primarily justified by the desire to allow all municipalities to land with full child-care coverage before changing the framework conditions again. We believe it is more important not to put ourselves in a situation where we can inhibit the good development operation we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e384	The message says that you have a forecast of approx. 17 000 kindergartens to be built in 2005, but these figures are very uncertain — that is forecast. I want to ask the Council of State if she's getting a little bit safer on those numbers. In addition to that, I also wonder if she has any predictions about how many people will be without a children's playground offer from 1 August 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e391	This is a difficult question the representative comes up with, because the forecast figures are very uncertain. The forecast figures we got from the municipalities a little earlier in the year suggested a planned construction of 17 000-18 000 new kindergartens this year. That's really nice, and it's really nice if you actually had to do it. But also for last year and the year before, we have the experience with the forecast figures you had at the same time in the previous years, that some of these places were still not finished during the year you thought. Some places were, for example: first completed at the beginning of the following year. That's why we're saying that the prognosis numbers are uncertain. We don't dare be exact about this. What we know, however, is that 15 400 children were on the waiting list at the beginning of 2005. It's relatively safe numbers. Then there's also a great uncertainty that we don't yet know if we still have to build 1.43 full-time places per. child – that is, how many more people will go from part time to full time. It's also an uncertain number.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e400	It has been a problem to get municipalities to maintain the nominal level of their efforts in kindergartens. There has been a decrease every year since we made this agreement, and the decrease from 2003 to 2004 was also quite significant. I would like to ask the Council of State what measures it might be appropriate to use in relation to those municipalities that do not maintain their nominal level. You're totally dependent on them doing it. Another question concerns the cost model, which has failed to work out too many kindergartens. Some kindergartens are now taking out large millions of profits, while others, private kindergartens, have problems with pay payments and are threatened with bankruptcy and closure. What model does the Council of State think we should put in place in the future in order to achieve more stable operation in private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e407	The kindergarten agreement presupposes that the nominal contribution of the municipal sector to the kindergartens should not be reduced in proportion to the level at which the conciliation was concluded. What the representative here is asking for, we have actually described in the circular on beauty products allocated to kindergartens in 2004. I quote from it: ‘It is a prerequisite that the discretionary means should not compensate for a reduction in municipal self-financing.’ At the very end of the circular, it says: «Communities which have not benefited from the grant in accordance with the assumptions must expect to repay the corresponding share of the grant» – after the financial statements for 2004. So this is explained in the writing about beauty products that went out to the municipalities this year. We will get the final COSTRA numbers only approx. June 15th. On the basis of these figures, we'll go through and see how we're going to deal with this in relation to the municipalities. To the last question: I think that in some way something has been said about this also in the notification of the maximum price. We now have a two-part system, both a cost model and a unit cost model. We're moving more and more towards a unit cost model.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e430	The fact that there is a great deal of uncertainty in predictions is quite understandable. But when it applies to the year of introduction of step 2, a total increase has said ‘1. August 2005». So, ‘in the course of 2006’ has flourished, and in the media lately, I have reported that it has been a great deal about ‘out in 2007’. I think it's important for young children's parents to try to get a little more concrete pointer when it comes to time – it's not a decision that the Storting has made in any way. My question relates to something that I was also a little bit concerned with in my speech: when the Council of State presents the 2006 budget, what kind of language did it use to gain experience? Can it be obtained from that numbering material e.g. mention any time during the course of 2006 that this should take effect from now on?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e444	We have said in the Communication that we will come back to this issue in the 2006 budget. The numbers that are then taken into account will also be based on the absorption in kindergartens. To what extent we've got the exact recording numbers, I can't answer, but it's clear that we want better numbers than what we want per. the date of issue. I can't say from the pulpit today that we want to come with, for example. the maximum price step 2 from a certain date – it is too early for me to say. We have also said that in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e451	What Mr Överaas and the Council of State are now discussing is absolutely essential. One thing is to say that a maximum price should be introduced when you have full babysitting, but that it is uncertain when it is achieved. It's an understandable reasoning. The problem is that the kindergarten agreement is cancelled at the time of the election — that is no longer the case. It is clear that this is the current grossing-up period. The government parties were strongly opposed to having a maximum price at all when we entered into the kindergarten agreement. It was one of the things in which they gave the concession to achieve other things – so it was part of the broad agreement. The question is then: what do the government parties do when you are no longer bound by the kindergarten agreement? Would you like to introduce step 2 at all? Can the Council of State guarantee – and it will also be important before the elections – that the Government Parties enter in order to introduce the maximum price of step 2?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e460	Of course, a government council can't guarantee anything for a new big business. The representative knows that too. In fact, I think the comments in the setting of this nursery message are very good. More people here have said that the parties are very strongly united about the different goals. In the kindergarten agreement, we've had four goals. We have had objectives of full coverage, maximum price, equivalent treatment and – I want to add – quality and diversity. It will surprise me if not a new growth will continue the good work that we are now doing in relation to kindergartens. Last year, Stortinget clearly did well to ensure that kindergartens were built in 2006. So the whole reform was put at risk for one year. Even if we get a new expansion, I hope and believe that there will be agreement also on further construction and – let's say – the structural changes needed in the kindergarten sector in the future. More than that, I can't guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e470	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e475	We have stated in our position that we stand firm on the objectives and instruments we have adopted, or agreed on in the kindergarten agreement. It's not, as someone has said here, mainly full babysitting. It's full babysitting, it's maximum price step 2, and that's of course quality. It's not that there's only full babysitting that's the first goal. We've never said that. We have also said that we should introduce the maximum price step 2 – if it became almost full coverage – in 2005. Then you can discuss what ‘approximately full coverage’ is. That's what I'm really wondering. What is it? We're probably building 1,700 places this year. There were 1,500 children in line around the turn of the year. So far we've had to build 1.43 places per. children to get space for those who want to go from half space to full space. It's possible that most people who wanted a full space have already got it. We don't know how many places we have to build in the future, and how many that want to go from one half place to the next. So all of these numbers are reasonably insecure. We know that, and we know that from previous years. What is quite clear is that we do not know how much demand for kindergartens is in Norway until we have introduced the maximum price step 2, and before it has worked for maybe a year. We have now seen after the introduction of the maximum price step 1 that it has taken a long time before we have seen the real need. The representative of the Progress Party pointed out that this was political contempt, but I have not said it. I have said that I understand that parents feel that we have not kept our promises. There's a lot of reasons for that. One of the reasons is that more people want full space than we might initially have thought. More people opt out of cash support than we might initially have thought. It would be wrong to stand here and say that parents have a choice, that you can choose cash support or kindergarten. You can't choose kindergarten when you don't have full babysitting. What we are doing now by postponing the introduction of the maximum price step 2, is postponing the whole reform. It makes us get into goal a lot, a lot later, because we don't know what the real need for kindergartens is in this country. It's not that you can choose the care solution you want. That is why there are quite a number of people outside in kindergarten queues, just as the representative of the Progress Party was here. It will also do it in the future until we have a maximum price of 1750 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e490	It was really a very interesting clarification that came here in the string exchange. So far, the government has produced it so that they cannot introduce the maximum price step 2 now, because we have not achieved full child care coverage. It is therefore also not possible to follow the pediatric agreement, as was said, because, in the opinion of the Council of State, it is a prerequisite that there should be full pediatric coverage before we introduce the maximum price step 2. So the Council of State says that even when we do not achieve full child care coverage – in 2006, 2007 or 2008 – she will be able to guarantee that the Government will go in to introduce the maximum price step 2. I understand that she can't guarantee what the Storting decides, but what the Government is going to go in for, must be something a state council could say about. That's very, very interesting, because that means that if this government stays in place, Norwegian parents will never experience getting the maximum price step 2. It's not that strange, because that's what the government's originally wanted, you didn't want the maximum price step one once. So you don't get the maximum price step 2, if you're free, you get it. So you could say: Maybe the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Advance Party would force the Government to introduce the maximum price step 2 anyway. However, the Progress Party programme should then be read because it says that all transfers to the kindergarten sector from the municipal and state sectors should be taken and transferred in a cash grant to the children’s parents together with the child benefit. The kindergarten price, if it is a maximum price, must then be 11 000-12000 kroner per month to make this calculation go up. That is what is at the bottom of the Progress Party programme. A maximum price of 1700–1,800 kroner, I think we can see very much after all state support for the kindergartens disappears, and the transfers are to be channelled into a cash grant through the family allowance. It's a system, but the maximum price of $1,800 is not going to be the case. If I have now misunderstood, and the Council of State now says that it is clear that the Government is going in to introduce the maximum price step 2, it will do so on the day it becomes full coverage, and it commits the Government to go in for, we have received a very important clarification in this debate that gives a very clear signal to the country's children's parents about what will happen with the maximum price step 2 if today's government continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e501	This, I think, must be taken with regard to rhetoric on a Friday morning at the Stortinget pulpit. We have therefore reached a settlement where equal treatment between private and public kindergartens and maximum prices is two important elements. If we're going to look back a little bit on this story, this is based on a private proposal from SV and the Progress Party, where the Workers' Party later came in. So if it worries the representative Guess what the Progress Party is going to do in the next big time, I think maybe he should go in and read the private proposal. Because, as the Workers' Party also knows, we have at least been a partner so far to trust. The representative, Hansen, was concerned that parents could not choose. No, that's exactly what was my point. When we don't have enough nursery places, parents can't choose. Then you have no real choice. It is good to set a maximum price of NOK 1750 for the cash support. The problem is, it's just that per. On 1 January 2005, there were 15 400 children in kindergarten queues for which one had actually been able to pay the maximum price step 1 if only space had been available. So that's not the willingness to pay that's the important thing, that's the desire of the parents for kindergarten. In order not to be so discriminatory between those within and those outside, we think it is right that we follow the premises we have made in the broad agreement that there must be almost full child-care coverage. And with almost full babysitting, I don't see that there's going to be thousands of kids on the outside of the fence and staring at those on the inside, because they didn't get the place they so much wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e510	This government has followed the agreement, follow the agreement and will follow the agreement – all parts of the agreement. To me, of course. We have signed an agreement with Stortinget on this. So then I hope it's cleared out of the way. I also want to refer to what we have done. We've got a capacity increase in the sector that is actually larger than what was in the agreement. We've adopted the maximum price step 2, and we're also following the equation when we're now postponing the maximum price step 2 until you have almost full coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e517	It's possible to have two thoughts in your head at once. That's what we've been up to now. We have built out spaces, and we introduced the maximum price step 2. It has shown us that the need for kindergarten places was much greater than what we initially thought. The deadlines have been short, but now municipalities are able to deal with this reform. I think they do. Children's playgrounds are built as never before. It's exactly the same way when you build roads here in the country. If you plan and finish in a shorter time, it costs less. The same is true of kindergarten reform. If we introduce the maximum price step 2 now, all the thousands who want kindergarten space in this country will get kindergarten space faster. What I can say to the People's Party is that there are many, many more than the 15 000 who were in line at the turn of the year who want space. What we're seeing now is that the 1- and 2-year-olds are starting to line up. Because the parents out there now actually think that there's an opportunity to get kindergarten, they're looking for a kindergarten. The neighbouring municipality of Moss, Rygge, had full kindergarten coverage. Now it's 90 kids in line, and it's 1- and 2-year-olds. That's what we've seen, people want kindergarten. That's what we said in the first place. You choose the cash allowance, and you want a reasonable babysitting space. I expect the Progress Party to stand on its promises after the elections. This has been done up until now by the Progress Party. I think it has been a very good cooperation with the Progress Party in this matter. The starting point for us to get to where we came in this big period is that the Progress Party and SV together promoted a Document No. Eight proposals, to which the whole Storting has gradually joined. Everything hasn't become exactly what we wanted in the first place, but I think it's been a good process, and we've done a lot in this process. The fact that there have been short deadlines, which the representative of the Christian People's Party was in here, has been the most problematic. If we look at Sweden, we see that they did this in a very short time. It's been bad information. There has been opposition to the introduction of the maximum price. I think what we hear here today from the government parties is that the maximum price step 2 is actually not going to be introduced. I expect the Progress Party to stand on that proposal for this reform is in port, but I think it is sad that this enlargement could not now be completed. We have said that this reform should be fully financed, and we could introduce the maximum price step 2 now, and at the end of next year, we would have known what the need for kindergarten places is in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e532	Trond Giske has spoken twice in this debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e535	The nursery agreement says it's black on white that it's going to be out of this grossing-up period. No parties are bound by the pediatric reconciliation next period. Then we go to the elections on our party program. So until May Hansen says that she assumes that the Progress Party is on the pediatric conciliation next period: the pediatric conciliation does not apply in the next period. What's in the nursery arrangement is that it's out of this period. I take the Progress Party so seriously that I think they are going to vote on their programme, and that is the program that was adopted at the national meeting, you want to implement in the next period. And there's nothing about the nursery arrangement. It says to remove all public support for the kindergartens and add it to the child's pension and cash support in a cash contribution to the families with children, and then you have to pay the kindergarten that it costs, and it would probably be about NOK 11 000-12 000 per month for a small children's place, I think. And then we'll see how many private kindergarten owners that build up then. I think the Council of State has clarified it very well. She's at the nursery meeting. It shall apply until 12 September. Then the maximum price is 2 all the way out in blue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e544	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2773]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e566	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2773]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e584	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2773]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e602	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e620	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e638	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e656	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e674	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e693	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e712	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e730	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e749	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e765	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e781	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e797	There is not so much to say, just that this is a matter which the majority of the Committee has referred to in its budgetary proceedings, and therefore the proposal of the Progress Party is not supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e804	Several have not asked for the word. Proposal from the Progress Party made after it had been called to vote, see below. [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e819	We are then almost ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1 to 16 on today's map. In the case of case No. 16, the Progress Party did not wish to promote the proposal in the vote. The President will ask for permission from Stortingen to allow a representative of the Progress Party to put forward the proposal, even if the matter has been debated. – It is considered biphasic. There should be no argument here, only proposals made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e828	Case No. 16: I will record the proposal of the Advance Party referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e833	The representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e867	During the debate, Mr Hansen presented two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the trial project with kindergarten-related kindergartens in the municipalities, which will be the centre of competence and guidance for family children’s gardens.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make visible in the 2006 budget the instruments it would be appropriate to use in relation to municipalities that do not implement the financing of kindergartens as determined by the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e903	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 2 June 2005. Here the President has understood that during the debate the proposers suggested that this proposal should be turned into a transmission proposal. Is that correctly understood? - It's nodding. The proposal is therefore converted into a transmission proposal and the text is amended accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is advised to investigate and come back appropriately with an assessment of the determination of hazard and parental responsibility in the case of assisted fertilisation. In these cases, he/she shall be able to be approved as a father and to receive parental responsibility in the same way as a married couple even if he/she is not a biological father of the child.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e921	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Eirin Faldet, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the Child Protection Act in order to ensure that single, minor asylum seekers and refugees under the age of 18 equal to the one-off Norwegian children are protected by the Child Protection Act upon arrival in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e939	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Eirin Faldet, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a system of authorisation and supervision of asylum recipients for unaccompanied minor asylum seekers in line with child protection institutions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e957	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Eirin Faldet, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the Child Protection Act in order to ensure that children receiving child protection measures are provided with the treatment they require in the fields of medicine, psychiatry and alcohol independently of the consent of biological parents.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e975	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government is asking the Government to provide funds for the implementation of internal controls under the Child Protection Act in the municipalities, for which the municipalities can apply for support on an individual basis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e994	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the appropriations for the protection of children, during a transitional period designated for the follow-up of parents after amendment of the Children’s Protection Act § 4 16.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1012	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce a system of approval and supervision for maternity homes in line with the Child Protection Institutions provided for by the Children’s Protection Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1030	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a national action plan for foster homes, focusing in particular on the competence, quality, knowledge, guidance, organisation and working conditions, with a view to the foster child, foster parents, biological parents and public bodies with a bearing on and responsibility for foster home placement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1048	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Sollied Överaas, on behalf of the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider removing Section 9-2 of the Child Protection Act on parental maintenance obligations for their children when the child is away from home following a child protection decision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1066	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an inquiry into how to strengthen the asylum recipients of single minors, as well as clarification of roles and responsibilities between the Ministry of Children and the Ministry of Family Affairs and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in an appropriate manner.’ It's the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party that are behind the proposal, so there might be reason to believe that the Workers' Party and the SV will vote against it? –
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1074	We will vote in favour, subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1081	We will also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1098	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2005: ‘The Government requests the Government to carry out a nationwide review of the cabinets, to consider the need for the measure, to assess the objectives, content and operational conditions, and to assess the need for regulation and supervision of the measures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1145	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asked for a change in the scheme of Innovation Norway’s instruments from district-oriented to nation-wide schemes. The Government submits the investigation to the Stortinget in connection with the 2006 State Budget.’.» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1168	Me and the representative Beate Heieren Hundhammer were supposed to vote for the adjustment, but the voting system did not light up with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1175	The correct votes shall then be 78 for the vote and 15 for the vote. - That's how the suspension is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-10.ana.ud1319e1186	There is no record.
