ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e74	The safety situation in Afghanistan is relatively calm but unstable. We last saw this under the anti-Western riots in the middle of May. In the Kabul area, the international military and civil police presence has resulted in a relatively stable security situation. Taliban groupings and remaining Al-Qaida elements remain active, particularly in the south-east towards the Pakistan border. At the same time, developments are in the direction of the fact that the Afghans themselves are increasingly taking responsibility for security. This is a result of the systematic training of Afghan military security forces and police in the last two years. One of the main challenges facing President Karzai and his government today is to strengthen central government authority and control in the provinces. This is a prerequisite for reducing the power of local warlords and for succeeding in combating increasing drug production. In many cases, the drug is controlled by local warlords with distinctions into the political and military system, and the drug problem could undermine political and economic developments in Afghanistan. NATO's involvement in Afghanistan is long-term, in line with the Istanbul Summit Decision. One of the main tasks of ISAF is to contribute to the extension of the central authority in the provinces. This is the background to NATO’s commitment to the regional ‘stabilisation laws’, the PRTs, which are at the heart of ISAF’s gradual expansion of the operational area beyond the provinces. Five stabilisation teams were established early in northern Afghanistan. The alliance is now in the process of establishing a further four stabilisation teams in western Afghanistan, which will be operational from August this year. From the summer of 2006, stabilisation teams will be established in the southern provinces, and is planned to continue in eastern Afghanistan as well. A prerequisite for achieving lasting stability in Afghanistan remains active support and participation from the international community. It is therefore important that allied countries follow up NATO decisions by contributing to the presence of ISAF in the provinces. Afghanistan has been Norway’s main military field of action for the past few years, and this priority is firmly established. Through our contributions to ISAF, we actively support NATO's involvement in the country, which is a broad political uprising both in NATO and here at home. The Norwegian contributions to ISAF are currently made up of well over 350 people. These are mainly concentrated in Kabul and include, inter alia: management of a battalion fighting group, where a Norwegian company is also included. We participate in addition with staff personnel at the headquarters of ISAF and in the multinational brigade in Kabul, as well as with firefighters at Kabul International Airport. We also have ten police officers in Kabul who are training Afghan police. The Norwegian presence outside Kabul is currently limited to about 30 people in Meymaneh, northwest of Afghanistan. The staff is part of a multinational stabilisation team under British management. As mentioned in the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement to the United Kingdom on 15 February of this year, we have been negotiating with the United Kingdom to take over the management of the stabilisation team in Meymaneh. It is now decided that we will take over the management of Meymaneh from 1 September this year, and this will increase our presence here with 20 people. The extended contribution is also planned to include an assistance adviser and a police adviser. The ISAF operational area in northern Afghanistan has so far been divided between the United Kingdom and Germany. As part of the further ISAF enlargement, the British have indicated that they want to pool their resources in the south as of 2006/2007. Germany has planned to take over as a leadership nation in the north from spring 2006. On this basis, Germany has asked the contributing countries in the area, including Norway, to replace the British contributions from the time they are withdrawn. Against this background, the government will make an adjustment to our future presence in Afghanistan by concentrating our forces in the north. We will thus make a direct contribution to the stability of the northern region, together with several other allies and Nordic countries, among others. Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden. This replaces British troops that become essentially concentrated south of Afghanistan. At the same time, we will have to withdraw the majority of our forces from Kabul, where NATO, in any case, is now proposing that the Afghans take a greater share of the responsibility for security. In cooperation with Germany, we are in the process of clarifying the concrete design of the Norwegian strength contribution in the north. Among the contributions assessed is a company for rapid deployment – QRF – explosive cleaning experts, logistics personnel and centrally located staff officers. Further planning will reflect the fact that Afghanistan remains our main military field of activity outside, and the total Norwegian contribution will therefore be maintained at about the current level. In the coming weeks, we will gain greater clarity in the framework of the Norwegian strength contributions, with a view to being notified to the NATO Force Generation Conference on 29 June. However, all details will only be in place during the autumn 2005. On 30 November 2004, I presented the Government's intention to cooperate with Sweden and Finland on the establishment of an EU response force. The strength will form one of the 13 EU effort forces now in the process of being established and will be ready for a six-month period for the first half of 2008. The United Kingdom has offered countries to make use of the multinational operating headquarters outside London. Thus, according to the plan, the operational management of the force will be carried out from this British headquarters. Here Norway will hold positions in line with our partners and the United Kingdom as well as with the other EU Member States. The Nordic countries cooperate closely with the United Kingdom on the issue of command and control of the force. Following the debate on this issue in the United Kingdom last December, negotiations between Norway, Sweden and Finland started last year. Earlier this year, Estonia requested participation in the Nordic intervention force with a smaller contribution. We have been positive about this from Norway, and Estonia has now joined us as a partner. The details of the different countries’ contributions have not been finally clarified. Sweden will be a leading nation and will provide about 50 % of the total population. 1 100 military personnel. Finland and Estonia will act with approx. 200 and approx. 40 people. Norway has indicated that we can make a contribution limited up to approx. 150 military personnel. During the debate last December, the Government got its agreement to its line. At the same time, some questions were raised in our participation in such an effort. Among other things, asked questions about which decision-making authority we would like to have when the deployment of the force becomes relevant, and whether we will have access to sufficient information to give us a sound national decision-making process. Further questions were raised as to what control we would like to have with how Norwegian forces are used in a possible operation, and on what basis cooperation in international law will be based. The relationship with the Basic Law was also raised, and some questions related to the capacity and economic aspects of cooperation were raised. During the debate I stressed that the agreement regulating cooperation would be presented to the Stortinget when it was ready. The Cooperation Agreement was signed on 23 May at the EU Defence Minister’s meeting. The Cooperation Agreement lays down the political and principal framework for cooperation on a Nordic effort force. The government is pleased that it meets the conditions we set by the Norwegian side, and that it clarifies the conditions that were raised during the debate in Stortinget. The agreement provides that cooperation on the effort force is based on the principle of consensus. In connection with the deployment of forces, the agreement states that the decision to deploy national forces in a given operation is taken by national authorities on a case-by-case basis. This is done in accordance with each country’s internal decision-making procedures and national legislation, including the Constitution. It is the advice of the EU that will take the decision to launch an operation and to make use of the effort forces. However, the nations still decide to deploy their national forces. The EU Member States are free to choose whether or not to participate in an operation, as is, of course, the case on the Norwegian side. There is no question of transferring neither formal nor real decision-making powers on the deployment of Norwegian forces to the EU. Assessments will be made in each country and the decision to participate in an operation will be taken on an independent basis. In order to ensure a sound national decision-making process, we have from the Norwegian side provided that we have access to all relevant information in the run-up to and during a crisis. This is particularly important given that the formal decision by the European Union is taken by the Council of the European Union without our participation. Let me make it clear that the Norwegian authorities will of course not make the decision to send Norwegian soldiers into an operation, unless we have a good enough basis for decision. In order to ensure a sufficient amount of information, the agreement confirms that regular and extensive consultations will take place between the participating countries. Consultations will take place at several levels, and both military and civil. These discussions will be intensified before and during the emergency period. The consultation arrangements established by the Agreement will provide consultation and decision-making processes that are parallel in all participating countries and parallel to the EU process. The decision whether or not to participate in an operation will be based on the nature of the mission and how it is intended to be resolved. The assumption that we must keep control of how Norwegian forces are used in an operation is also ensured in the agreement. It states that each country should have the right to hold positions in the various management functions. Furthermore, each nation will be allowed to stop the use of its own forces which do not comply with national guidelines, a so-called red card scheme. This ensures Norwegian control of how Norwegian forces carry out missions in an operation. Through participation in the command apparatus, we also have control that operational tasks and assignments take place within the framework we set nationally for our participation. It is an indispensable condition for Norway, and for the other intervention forces, that an operation is firmly anchored in international law, either by a mandate from the UN Security Council or by other clear international legal anchorages. This premise is reflected in the agreement between the participants in the Nordic effort force. Normally, a mandate from the UN Security Council will be the basis for an operation, but the use of military power can also be sanctioned by international law through the consent of the parties, for example. a peacekeeping operation in which the opposing parties seek military intervention from a third party in order to obtain a ceasefire, or are anchored by the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. Norway will itself assess the basis of international law for the operation. This right is also attached to the contract. If the Norwegian authorities are not satisfied with the international legal or other aspects of each operation, Norway will refuse to participate. The relationship with the Basic Law has been very central to us in the contract negotiations with Sweden and Finland. The Government is confident that the constitutional aspects of Norwegian participation are properly addressed in the agreement. Paragraph 25 of the Constitution does not prevent Norwegian forces from participating in collective military activities under the direction of other countries or international organisations. This has been firmly anchored in Norwegian state practice, and has been applied several times, including in several cases. in the case of Norwegian accession to NATO, participation in the German Brigade, the Gulf War in 1991 and operations in Afghanistan, Iraq and the Balkans. This also applies to Norway’s participation in the two EU operations in Macedonia and Bosnia respectively. The Constitution does not prevent participation in operations for the protection of Norwegian or common international interests in order to ensure international peace and security. Today, we have to deal with the collective crisis management and security systems that are being developed. The Constitution must be understood in the light of modern forms of cooperation in security policy and realities. Neither constitutional practices nor theoretical manufacturing require Norway to be a member of an organisation, in order to participate in operations managed by that organisation. Furthermore, in order for the Constitution § 93 to be a possible obstacle, the EU had to be able to take decisions with direct binding effect for Norway on participation in operations. That's not the case. Norwegian participation – as I have clearly underlined – will be decided by Norwegian political authorities. The Agreement provides, for the other Norwegian courts, for Norwegian forces both before, during and after an operation. In this context, I would like to stress that each participating country not only has the sovereign right to refuse to participate in an operation, but also has the sovereign right to withdraw from an operation at any time, for example. if conditions change in such a way that we no longer want to participate. This too is explicitly stated in the agreement. The EU is in agreement with the Norwegian conditions for cooperation. In an exchange of letters between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the High Representative for Foreign Affairs of the EU, Solana, we establish the principal framework conditions for Norwegian participation. The letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also been submitted to the EU Member State and the Norwegian assumptions have been accepted by the EU countries. There is therefore no uncertainty or doubt either about the participation of the other countries in the force, the EU as an organisation or the EU Member State in the framework of Norwegian participation in EU intervention forces. Let me now explain the capacity and economic aspects of this cooperation. With 13 effort forces, two of which will be ready for the EU at any time for a six-month period, each strength will have a rotational cycle of about one. two and a half years. According to today's plans, Norway will thus have about. 150 military personnel tied up for approx. a six-month period every five months. For the time being, we have offered transport management and sanitation capacities. These contributions will be additional to staff staff in the various management functions. Our total participation will be within the defined human resources framework. As a result of capacity modernisation of defence, we will have an increased share of deployable forces that can be deployed quickly both nationally and abroad. These are the ones we attract by participating in reaction forces like the NATO Response Force and the Nordic intervention force. Therefore, such participation does not have any impact on the organisation of our defence structure and capabilities. The costs associated with our contribution to reaction forces are normally covered within the defence budget. The contributions to the battlegroup are forces that have already been decided upon as a consequence of the Storting decision. The additional costs will be limited mainly to increase preparedness during the period in question, and this procedure is basically the same as for NATO response forces. Response strength deployment costs will vary according to the nature of the mission and cannot be predicted. It is therefore proposed that additional funding be requested by the Government by any decisions on insertion. It's in line with the arrangement that exists for our participation in NATO's reaction force, NRF. Let me summarize why the Government believes it is important to participate in this cooperation with our Nordic partners: EU defence and security cooperation has evolved with great force in the last few years. Cooperation on the response forces, the establishment of the defence agency EDA and the EU Security Strategy has been defined in various EU summit decisions. It is therefore clarified that the cooperation we are now entering into on the strengths of the effort, thus not depending on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty. This development takes place in cooperation with NATO and the United Nations. The EU is developing capacity for peacekeeping, peace-building and crisis management. It is positive that the EU does this because it seems stabilising both regionally and globally. It also contributes to a more even burden-sharing between Europe and the United States. It is in Norway’s interest to cooperate with the EU on these issues. The government continues with these lines of former government policy in this area. It is on this basis that Norway also participates in the EU military operation in Bosnia. It is through active participation that we have credibility and acceptance as partners in relations with the EU and the EU Member States. As is known, most EU countries are also close allies of Norway in NATO. Nordic military cooperation is of great importance to Norway. Nordic countries have long and good experience in peacekeeping cooperation. Cooperation on this strength represents a continuation and further development of this cooperation. The EU has worked closely with the UN during the development of the concept, with the aim of ensuring that the strengths meet as much as possible the needs of the UN for rapid response capabilities. The establishment of these forces, in addition to strengthening the EU military crisis management capability, is precisely intended to support the UN. UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has underlined the important role these forces can play in support of the UN, especially in situations requiring a rapid response. The Second Report to the General Assembly of 21 March points out that the EU intervention forces will be a very important complement to the UN work on peacekeeping. A significant majority of our European allies participate in these forces. One of the reasons why so many NATO countries want to participate is that participation in this type of force contributes to the further development of the interaction between European nations in general. This is also positive for NATO's ability to interact. It is important for us and other NATO allies that the EU concept of forces of intervention is complementary and not competitive in relation to NATO, and in particular NATO's effort force, NRF. The agreement we now have in place meets the conditions imposed by the Government for cooperation, and the questions raised during the big debate in December. I am very pleased that we have reached this agreement, so that the cooperation with our Nordic-Baltic partners can be continued. The US pre-storage of military material in Norway has for almost 25 years been a tangible proof of American will and ability to contribute to the defence of Norway in crisis and war. It is an expression of our close security and defence cooperation with the United States. The background to the programmes was the creation of the facility for American reinforcements in connection with a possible attack by the former Soviet Union. The underlying original security policy framework conditions have changed significantly today. In order to further develop and update the concept of pre-storage, both US and Norwegian have seen the need to revise the agreements and programmes. For the Government, it has been a central objective to ensure further pre-storage in Norway – adapted to new tasks relevant to both Norway, the United States and NATO. Therefore, the Norwegian authorities have worked actively to maintain a significant American presence in the form of pre-storers in Norway. There is now agreement on a revision of the US pre-storage in Norway that is adapted to future challenges for Norwegian, American and Allied security. The changes to the programmes involve the establishment of equipment to manage a wider range of tasks. The material shall continue to support the defence of Norway. At the same time, it is underlined that the equipment should also be capable of being used for NATO missions. Equipment will also be important to ensure American participation in exercises and training in Norway, including activities that start from the operations of the NATO Joint Warfare Centre in Stavanger. It is assumed that the changes do not entail additional costs for the defence and that the day-to-day operation of the stocks is virtually unchanged. Norwegian authorities shall have an influence on which materials can be stored. Stocks are assumed to continue to be staffed by Norwegian personnel and under daily Norwegian control and supervision. Pre-storage in the United States in Norway is organised in three different programmes. Norwegian Air Landed Marine Expeditionary Brigade, NALMEB, is the Marine Corps' storage of equipment for a Marine Infantry Brigade. Collocated Operating Bases, COB, is the U.S. Air Force storage of equipment at five Norwegian airstations, while the U.S. Navy has pre-stored two major field hospitals. The main component of the pre-storage equipment is the Marine Corps NALMEB programme. The current contract work was signed in 1981 and provides guidelines for the pre-storage of heavy equipment to a Marine Infantry Brigade. The purpose was to defend Norway, within the framework of NATO’s common defence. The revised program will go under the name Marine Corps Prepositioning Program – Norway, MCPP-N. A revised Memorandum of Understanding, MOU, is scheduled to be signed in advance of the NATO Minister of Defence meeting next week. Stocks will continue to consist of both weapons and other material, and aid for the defence of Norway in crisis and war will continue to be a central task. However, greater emphasis will be placed on a wider range of tasks related to the use of equipment by the Marine Corps. This includes, inter alia: peace operations, humanitarian aid, disaster assistance, response management to terrorist attacks and evacuation operations. These are tasks with increasing relevance to the Marine Corps' possible efforts both in Norway and in other parts of the world. The established practice of US use of the equipment for exercises and operations outside Norway, formalised by changes in the underlying agreement in 1995, is now reflected in the agreement itself. The United States has previously used equipment stored in Norway, for example: in the Balkans, in Iraq and in Afghanistan. The NALMEB programme has resulted in significant American training activity in Norway. This is important for Norwegian interests, in order to ensure that the United States and other important allies maintain their ability to operate effectively in Norway. It also contributes to Norwegian defence enhancing its competence and ability to operate with central allies. It is crucial for our military credibility and Norwegian ability to discharge central alliance obligations. The transition to the Marine Corps Prepositioning Program – Norway, MCPP-N, ensures the potential for American exercise activity, and is being worked on by Norwegian to ensure a high level of American exercise activity and to exploit the possibilities of developing new exercise models related to the extended task spectrum. The current Collocated Operating Bases Contractor, COB, was signed in 1995 and opens to pre-storage equipment at five airstations in Norway as part of the Allied reinforcement of Norway. The changes to the programme are due to a desire to improve the effectiveness of the current programme and to improve the availability of the stored equipment. Agreement has now been reached between the US and Norwegian authorities on reducing the number of stations under the COB programme from five, Sola, Bodø, Andøya, Bardufoss and Evenes, to two, Sola and Bodø. The reduction will halve the cost of the day-to-day operation of the programme. In addition to being a reinforcement in the event of attacks on Norway, equipment could continue to be used in exercises and operations outside Norway. The revised Memorandum of Understanding, MOU, which establishes the reduction of COB bases in Norway from five to two, will be developed. The current agreement for the storage by the US Navy of two 500-beds in Norway was signed in 1987. In the context of the departure of the United States from its old concept of major field hospitals, the composition of stored hospitals in Norway will also be affected. The new concept is based on modules with high treatment capacity. We are in dialogue with the United States on the details of the storage of field hospitals in Norway. The agreement only involves the storage of the material and does not entail any expenditure for Norway. The United States is itself maintaining the material. Pre-storage of American material in Norway is an important pillar of our bilateral defence cooperation with the United States. The government is pleased that a revised pre-storage concept has been agreed with the US authorities. This reflects the importance attached by the American side to cooperation with Norway, and is also a tribute to the professionalism that characterises the Norwegian operation of the programme. The revised agreements will ensure a broad programme for continued US pre-storage on Norwegian soil. This shows that the United States is committed to defence cooperation with Norway in the framework of NATO, and that means a great deal to Norwegian security.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e229	The President will propose that the Minister of Defence’s statement on the EU response forces, pre-storage and further efforts in Afghanistan be discussed in a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e243	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e252	Document No 8:69 for 2004-2005 by representatives of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party on the continuation of the stationing of the 337 Quadron of the Defence – the Coast Guard Helicopter Quadron – with squadron management on Bardufoss even after the phase-in of the new NH90 helicopters is a relatively long and somewhat complicated case, where it has been possible to interpret the site options in different ways. Both the Sun and Bardufoss have been wanted, and both of course are capable of housing this. This has been treated in St. prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, Innst. S. No 234 for 2003-2004 and in St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004, but there were some different formulations that created uncertainty as to whether the whole or part of the 337 skull should be stationed on Bardufoss even after the phase-in of the new NH90 helicopters. These are also intended to be purchased during the period 2005–08, although in response letters from the Ministry of Defence of 24 September 2004, among others. see: ‘...the phase-in of the new unit helicopters has been delayed due to delays by the supplier, with the first delivery scheduled for mid-2007.’... ‘For this reason, the FD recommends to await the Government’s proposal for concrete follow-up to the Storting decision.’ That is why the majority is particularly concerned that the Ministry of Defence is loyal to the decisions taken by the Storting and is following them objectively. The majority see the importance of prioritising the presence of just management and maintenance elements adapted to the type of activity to be carried out on Bardufoss. With this Document, No. The majority of 8 proposals – and therefore decisions – consider that there should be no doubt that the 337 Quadron should be stationed on Bardufoss. The minority will present another proposal to which they will explain. For the majority of the cases in this case, proximity to the areas where helicopters will operate, which will mainly be in the northern regions to care for and signal Norwegian interests in our maritime domain, has been important. It has also been desirable to have a still living helicopter environment at Bardufoss. This is justified by the fact that the station is a host compartment for foreign helicopter activity and that it is inter alia: has an aviation school. This will give you a good professional environment, which will benefit everyone. The proximity to the base of the helicopter-bearing coastguard vessels is also of importance, as well as where their area of operation is. This Decision will also ensure that there will be no loss of jobs in the Sun, as the move decision has not yet been implemented, because the new helicopters are not yet in place. The Bardufos area also has unique practice areas, where the squadron can be tasked – and experienced – in an optimal Arctic environment. Thus, they could be well equipped to solve very difficult problems. It goes without saying that it is important to visit sea areas with stormy waters in order to adapt to the marginal operating conditions in polar waters that operating areas in the northern region have. With this I recommend setting. The Committee shall, inter alia: in order for the 337-squadron to be on Bardufoss in all ways but to be included administratively under the airwing of maritime helicopters – Airwing 134 at Sola Air Station.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e272	Let me first join the rapporteur's thorough presentation, and then add that one of the documents currently being processed in Stortinget is St.meld. No 30 on a comprehensive north-eastern policy. Of course, challenges include the safety situation in the north and the management of a Norwegian jurisdiction over a sea area seven times larger than our territory. In this regard, the Coast Guard is absolutely crucial. The Coast Guard is glued to civil-military cooperation in the northern regions, with statutory civil tasks, and is currently an integral part of the Maritime Defence. The challenges of the Coast Guard are many, including: related to a good neighbourhood to Russia, exercise of authority in the Svalbard area, fishing oversight and towing capacity to manage the oil transport from the Kola Peninsula, which has increased over the last three to four years. The Coast Guard operates, of course, mainly in the northern regions. Therefore, it is also natural that the Coast Guard helicopters are stationed in the north. They're at Bardufoss today. The Committee believes that they should be there even after the phase-in of the new NH90 unit helicopters. In June 2001, the Stortinget, as part of a very large reform, decided that the three maritime helicopter quadrons would be established on the Sola when the new helicopters arrived. This was natural for the 334 crest, which shall be on board the new frigates, which, as is known, shall have their base on Haakonsvern. It was also natural for the 330 squadron, the rescue helicopter service, including, among others. the main rescue centre in the vicinity. The sun also has a large civil helicopter environment, which they obviously still have to have. I also refer to the next case of getting a simulator for the NH90 helicopters on the Sola, a simulator that will also be able to serve helicopters from other countries, such as the Netherlands and Germany. In the context of the review of the long-term plan one year ago, the Committee considered that the 337 squadron should remain on Bardufoss, even after the arrival of the new helicopters, i.e. when the helicopters are not on board a ship or with the supplier for maintenance. Because of the different interpretations of both observations and decisions, both in the Inst. S. No 234 for 2003-2004 and in the budget position last autumn, so we have to put in a Document No. 8-proposals to get this case prepared once and for all. The 337-squaredron should still be on Bardufoss with squadron control, but should be administratively included as part of Airwing 134 on the Sola, i.e. the maritime helicopters. Station maintenance shall continue on Bardufoss for the Coast Guard helicopters. However, we are fully aware that the new helicopters will be much more on board than the old ones, and that they will also have maintenance personnel on board – just so there will be no discussion about it. With this, Stortinget confirms that we have two major military helicopter environments in Norway: Sola and Bardufoss. I think otherwise that all three squadrons are going to train both places. Among other things, there is a need for arctic training also for frigate helicopters. Of course, this must happen at Bardufoss. Simulator training will hopefully happen on the Sun. Our helicopter-bearing coastguard vessels, when not at sea, are mainly stationed in Blackland. Bardufoss is, as we know, considerably closer to Sortland than what the Sun is. Bardufoss is relatively close to the Coast Guard area, which will increasingly patrol and control our northern sea areas. I would like to remind you again of what I said in the introduction about the north area message that is located here in the house right now. Bardufoss will still have a living helicopter environment with both the 337 and 339 squadrons, his own flying school – that's what I expect to be in order gradually over a few weeks in ours – and the aviation engineer line in high school. Bardufoss is also the host department for allied helicopter activity. Arctic training is something that all NATO countries need. It also applies to helicopters. Here we're going to know our visit time. It is important for Norway that we have allied training at the various military departments around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e300	First of all, of course, I would like to join in what was said both by the case rapporteur and by the representative of Marit Nybakk on the Coast Guard and its significance for the North, on Arctic training and the fact that we are going to have an active helicopter environment at Bardufoss. Having said that, I just want to add that, to my best belief, it has nothing to do with this Document No. The 8's to do. As indicated in the suspension, it is the view of the Government Parties that the proposal should be rejected. The reason for this is that it will not be possible to take out the desired synergies if a splits the location of the squadrons. The collection of the main bases of the maritime squadrons will facilitate efficiency, professional over-building and improved operational performance. I also notice that a shared solution could involve investment needs both at Bardufoss and at Sola. At the same time, I think it is worth stressing that the location of the 337 Quadron to Bardufoss gives the mentioned proximity between the operating area and the base, as the 337 Quadron will operate both north and south. In this context, I find it useful to quote from the manager of Stavanger Aftenblad on 20 May, where it says: ‘Good sense, experience, knowledge and skilled political crafts are required when individual decisions are to be incorporated into long-term strategies. The risk of taking decisions on a daily basis that, in sum, undermine or even counter to the long-term strategy is always present.’ There is a danger that this is exactly what is about to happen when a person takes this matter into account. After all, we agreed in previous defence negotiations with the Labour Party that regional policy should play a secondary role in the adoption of the defence mechanism. Based on the total resources made available to the Defence every year, the Right considers that it is essential, in principle, to extract synergies by co-location under previous decisions, while respecting the proximity from patrol area to base through the decisions taken by the Stortinget in Innst. S. No 234 for 2003-2004. Here's what it says: ‘The Government requests the location of the new North Coast Guard Unit Helicopters, when not on board a vessel or while maintaining a supplier, to Bardufoss. The government is asked to make concrete proposals in the context of the phase-in of the new unit helicopters. ‘... So this was the Labour Party with the government parties about a year ago. In the view of the Right, this Decision addresses the need for geographical proximity between the activity of the 337 squadron in the north and the base of Bardufoss, while recognising synergies through the co-location of the main bases of the squadrons. I would remind you that this was the majority's decision. The members of the Committee from the SV and the Progress Party instead promoted the following minority proposals: ‘The 337 squadron is located at Bardufoss’. It is this Workers' Party, in fact, now joins after its reverse operation. In my view, the whole document appears. The 8th proposal, from among others The working party, as I mentioned, as a major turnaround and winging in relation to the great consensus we reached last summer in the context of the further reform of defence. From the Right, it is imperative to stress the importance of long-term and stable framework conditions for the defence activities. The switchover that the Norwegian Defence Agency is currently undergoing is the largest change in the public sector. If this change is to be successful, so that we get a defence that produces real defence capability according to Norway's security and defence policy needs, we need firm and stable framework conditions. I find it regrettable that the Workers' Party is not determined by the decisions it agreed to take in Innst. S No 234 for 2003 and 2004 from last year. With this, I want to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e339	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e342	The Christian People's Party does not support this proposal, as it runs counter to the previous decision of the Storting in relation to both the last two long-term plans. As the proposers of this private proposal themselves point out: ‘In the process of Innst. S. No 342 The Stortinget decided that the Sola Air Station should house three helicopter quadrons; 330 squadrons and 337 squadrons when the new NH90 helicopters come in place.» [[2000-2001]] [[Fregatthelikoptre]] [[Coastal watch helicopter]] Similarly, when examining the next long-term plan, the Stortinge decided quite exactly one year ago that the decision should be maintained. For the treatment of Inster. S. No For 2003-2004, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, stated that: ‘The majority consider it important to exploit synergies for the management of the 330, 334 and 337 quadrants respectively. This has been adopted to the Sun. At the same time, a short distance from patrol area to base is important.’» The Christian People's Party believes it is important to extract synergies by co-location of squadrons according to previous decisions, while maintaining proximity between patrol area and base. We believe that both of these considerations are taken into account through the decision of the Stortingen in the Inner. S. No 234 for 2003-2004, which reads : ‘The Government requests the location of the new North Coast Guard Unit Helicopters, when not on board a vessel or while maintaining a supplier, to Bardufoss. The government is asked to make concrete proposals in the context of the phase-in of the new unit helicopters. ‘... We therefore believe that this Decision meets the need for geographical proximity between the activities of the 337 squadron in the north and the base of Bardufoss, while recognising synergies through the co-location of the main bases of the squadrons. Let me remind you that this was the majority's decision in Innst. S. No 234 for 2003-2004, while members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre promoted the following minority proposals: ‘The 337 squadron is located at Bardufoss’. According to the proposers: ‘The majority and minority of the Innst. S. No 234 had slightly different wordings.» [[2003-2004]] I believe that these are the comments the rapporteurs are looking forward to. In my view, this is a very strange assessment of the last year's adjustment. I see this proposal and the committee's treatment of it as a total reverse operation by the Workers' Party – our otherwise stable and good partner. There is no doubt that Bardufoss has special advantages in being able to offer flying training under harsh winter conditions, an offer several countries use today. A large part of the Coast Guard activity is also taking place in the northern regions. Therefore, the 337 Quadron is currently located in Bardufoss, and the Stortinget has decided that the new unit helicopters for the Coast Guard in the north, when not on ship or under maintenance by a supplier, are located at Bardufoss. So there is no resistance to Bardufoss as such that the Christian People's Party believes that this proposal must be rejected. However, the Christian People's Party is concerned with predictability and the value of maintaining the line that we shared in the broad majority conciliation in the long-term plans for defence activities. There is no lack of understanding that regional policy conflicts of interest can be challenging. However, we will maintain the decisions that have already been taken. We don't think there's any need to go in and change the assumptions at this point in time. It's just going to be winged politics, which gives little predictability. The phase-in of the new unit helicopters will provide new opportunities for operational and economic synergies between the squadrons. In addition, the introduction of the NH90 will result in a significant capacity increase. We therefore believe that an investigation should be carried out with a view to a comprehensive resource use plan prior to phase-in, such as: includes the distribution between the Coast Guard Quadron South and the Coast Guard Quadron North, before concluding in detail in relation to the location. In our view, it is essential that the Government be given the opportunity to make concrete proposals in the context of the phase-in phase-in of the new unit helicopters, according to previous decisions in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e387	There will be a slight change in the order of speakers: First Kjetil Bjørklund, then Marit Arnstad and then Councillor Kristin Krohn Devold.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e390	Thank you for this flexibility, Mr President. President. With this decision, the majority of the committee clarifies something of which undue uncertainty has been created, and I am pleased that there is now a broad majority in the Grand Duchy for the decision that is now being taken. This is, as the representative Bjørn Hernæs now correctly points out, in line with the opinion SV has had of this for a long time. Most of the Coast Guard's work areas are located in the northern regions. That's why it's the logic that stationing also takes place in the north. Now there's a lot of talk about synergistic effects here, and that's why I asked for the word. There are a lot of synergistic effects from government parties, but I haven't seen any calculations of these synergies yet. It would be nice to have them presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e397	I can mainly join the rapporteur's remarks, but in addition to that, I need to clarify a few things. In the recent debate around the 337 squadron, there has been some uncertainty about the follow-up to the decisions taken by the Stortinget. The centre party for its part has always believed that the 337-squaredron should have been located on Bardufoss. That was what we meant in the long-term plan in 2001 and 2003, and we do that today. It is a natural follow-up to the fact that the Coast Guard has its main base in the north, and that the coastguard helicopters today are actually still on Bardufoss – and they should be in the future as well. We therefore welcome the decision taken on the long-term plan last year. The preamble to Document No. The 8 proposal is precisely that there has been no willingness on the part of the Ministry to follow up the decision actually taken in connection with the long-term plan last year. In the context of today’s recommendation, the Committee specifies that being on Bardufoss means that the squadron management should also be in the north and that maintenance should also be possible mainly on Bardufoss. In the context of today’s treatment, there is some uncertainty about how the Government intends to follow this up in the future. Thus, the reluctance of today's government to follow up the majority decision taken in connection with the long-term plan of last year has necessitated a Document No. Eight proposals, which have subsequently been polemised against by the Government, that there are election campaigns – at least from the politicians of the government parties. But it's simply a follow-up, because the government hasn't followed up on the decision previously made in the Storting. Furthermore, there is a striking argument in the letters received from the Ministry in dealing with this matter, which does not argue for and against the questions actually raised, but argues against the decision that is to be taken today. And then the natural question is, how are you going to follow up the decision that is being made today? An additional uncertainty is created by the fact that the Minister has been on the Right Tour in Rogaland and said that the decision that will be taken today must be interpreted, that the Government cannot automatically follow it up, but that the Government must now sit down with the Labour Party to look at this. The Government may not sit down with one of the lots behind a decision and interpret the manner in which the decision is to be followed up. The main task of the government is not to interpret the decisions taken in the Stortinget. It is responsible for implementing the decisions taken. We believe that there has been enough uncertainty about this matter from the Central Party through several proceedings in Stortinget. A decision is being taken today, and we expect the Government to follow that decision loyally and without reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e412	This case has a history. I am pleased that the representative Nybakk made it clear that it was the Workers' Party's proposal, and that it was in the time of the last Labour Party government that it was decided to move the 337 Quadron from Bardufoss to Sola. What has happened during this government is that we came to an agreement with, among other things. The working party to leave the helicopters on board the Coast Guard in the north, precisely because of the natural proximity to Blackland and to the north, at Bardufoss. And we agreed that, before the new helicopters arrive, we will promote a case to the Stortinget, so that the Storting can adopt the details related to all the conditions in the situation after 2007, when we have the new ones. Today's decision does not change the status of today, namely that the 337 Quadron is on Bardufoss, with squadron management, and with the elements that are important for the 337 Quadron. The reality would also have been so independent from this decision, because the status of the present day would have been maintained until the Grand Duchy, if necessary, came to a different conclusion, through which case the Government agreed with the majority of the population in which it would be promoted before the phase-in. This is what's important to clarify. There is no doubt that the Government is following up what is in the decision. Let's be clear. Of course, the government will also insist on what we have said in the past about coming to Stortinget with a case about the helicopters before the phase-in phase, because there are a number of details related to the phase-in phase of the NH90 helicopters that are not ready today, and are therefore not part of this decision. So the status of the day is maintained. Nothing changes, either in 2005 or 2006. But before the new helicopters arrive, probably in the summer of 2007, Stortinget will have the opportunity to deal with the whole of the phase-in and the new situation. With regard to the comments related to the need for possible interpretation, I would like to make it clear that when we get so far that we are promoting a case, probably in the autumn of 2006, it is important to clarify what station maintenance is, what it will be like in the future, and what a training wing will and will be in the future. I use this as an example because, as also the representative Nybakk was happy to attend, today's station maintenance will not be the same as the station maintenance after we have received the new NH90 helicopters, precisely because it is a premise, as Marit Nybakk also pointed out, that very much of the maintenance is to be carried out on board the ships, given the increased presence at sea and increased ability to perform rescue operations. It is therefore intended that both the 150-hour and 300-hour maintenance will be carried out on board a vessel in the future. This is part of today's station maintenance. Furthermore, I would like to clarify that the whole purpose of acquiring the NH90 helicopters was to have synergistic effects by having one helicopter type, so that all the three squadrons that have this type of helicopter can train together, practice together, maybe engage in a simulator collaboration with other countries, and of course also that the personnel and helicopters could be used on both frigates, Coast Guard and rescue services. A normal career path for helicopter personnel will probably be that in part of the period you work on coastguard helicopters, so that you can be ordered for parts of the employment period for frigate helicopters. Similarly, a frigate helicopter could be used on board a coastguard vessel for periods because it fits into the heavier maintenance plans. This and other details related to phase-in will be returned by the Government. But to make it quite clear to the Bardufoss community: there is no change in the current situation. As for what is said in this decision, I will of course repeat and stress that the Government will come back to the details, so that the Storting can decide on them when we know more – in a few years’ time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e433	It is true that many parties have changed their positions since 2001. Then it was only the Christian People's Party and the Center Party that went in order for the 337 Quadron to be at Bardufoss. However, developments in the north areas have been such as with regard to the presence of the Coast Guard and the need to exercise a jurisdiction, to operate with tug capacity and to have fishing oversight, that we believe it is absolutely essential that the Coast Guard helicopters now remain at Bardufoss. When we treated St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004 last year, I made it quite clear – and this is for the representative of the House and the Council of State – in response to questions that the 337 Quadron should still be on Bardufoss, and that the helicopters should be there when they were not stationed on board, or were with the supplier for maintenance. I would therefore like to ask whether there is any doubt at all that that was the intention, that even the squadron management after the decision last year was to be at Bardufoss, and whether there has been any doubt about it even after the budget line was under discussion in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e442	I am pleased that the representative Nybakk confirmed again that it was the Workers' Party's proposal, under the previous Labour Party government, to move the 337 Quadron from Bardufoss to Sola, and that it was the Workers' Party that had it adopted. I clarify this one more time, because otherwise serious Northern Norwegian newspapers have claimed that it was this government that made the proposal and got it adopted. Secondly, I would like to point out that it is absolutely right that it is logical that the Coast Guard helicopters operating in the north are in Bardufoss when they are not on board a ship. But I assume that the representative Nybakk did not believe what I heard she said, namely, that it is important that the helicopters are as close as possible to Bardufoss. The aim must be that the helicopters are best placed on board and provide rescue services, but it is quite natural that they stand in Bardufoss when not on board the vessel. It is also new in relation to today's concept, for the purpose of the new concept is that the crews are replaced on the boat and on the helicopter, while the helicopters remain on the boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e454	My question to the Council of State is whether it is the slightest doubt, or whether it can be interpreted in any way other than that the majority wants the 337 Quadron to be on Bardufoss now and in the future, regardless of when the NH90 helicopters arrive — whether it is mid-2007 or whether it may be a second time. Can it be interpreted in any way other than that Bardufoss is the place?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e459	There was a clear question, to which it is easy to answer in relation to the representative’s wishes, namely that the 337 quadrant, as decided here, should remain on Bardufoss, and that the intention of the decision is also to do so after the introduction of NH90 helicopters. I would like to remind you that what I said in my main post was not that that decision was the subject of interpretation, but that it would be a change in what is contained in the term otherwise mentioned in the decision, such as station maintenance, exercise wings etc. The reason for that is obvious: it will probably be one training wing in the future and not three as today. And it'll probably in the future be a minimal station maintenance related to 150-hour maintenance and 300-hour maintenance compared to what's happening today, because that was the very purpose of acquiring just one-hour helicopters. Then I also have the opportunity to give an additional response to the representative Nybakk, whom I did not get the time to do so, namely that there was no doubt that the squadron management would be at Bardufoss. That's what it is today, for that very reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e468	It's easy to say things when you're on the election tour, but in this case you're helping to create even more uncertainty about a case that has been through a wide-ranging debate in the Storting on several occasions. I notice that the council says one thing here in Stortinget today, and she says something else in Stavanger Aftenblad. Here in Stortinget she says that she should follow up the decision. In Stavanger Aftenblad she says that the committee decision must be interpreted. ‘The government has to sit down with the Labour Party to find out what the decision is actually about.’ Can the Council of State today confirm that she has understood what is the main essence of the decision, that it will be followed up by the Government, that, to the extent that it is now to be interpreted, there will be a matter from government to greatness, and that one will not sit down and discuss it with the parties individually on the Stortingen, but take it through the roads and the lines of communication that are between government and enlargement? I think it's important that the Council of State confirms this today, so we don't have any more uncertainty as to whether the Government intends to follow up what the Government actually decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e480	As I said in my post, the decision will be followed up. As I also said in my post: There is a matter for Stortinget before the phase-in phase, which gives Stortinget the full opportunity to decide on the whole of this matter when the details that are not ready today are clarified. At the same time, I would like to say that it has been important to remember that there was one important reason for the acquisition of unit helicopters, namely that it would be possible to save more on operation and maintenance. This could increase the presence in the north, increase efforts in the north, increase flight hours available to perform rescue operations. That's why today's station maintenance is something other than what will be the station maintenance of the future: more will happen on board where the helicopters are standing. There is more to a description of an actual situation, in order to be absolutely sure that the consensus underlying the provision of unit helicopters is still at stake. And I have no reason to doubt it based on today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e487	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e492	As one of the rapporteurs behind the proposal now under consideration, I need to make some points of view. I'm one of the many people who don't understand why this unit is wanted south when we know that over two thirds of the problems of the 337 Quadron will be in the areas of Bardufoss and northwards. I think there are a lot of good reasons that suggest that it is right to keep the 337-square at Bardufoss. Nobody here is talking about district policy, as the representative Hernæs is trying to suggest. This is a completely different situation. In the northern regions, such a presence will be of the greatest importance in the coming period. Increased oil and gas extraction, increased transport of oil and gas, increased risk of pollution, increased fight for fish and other marine resources, etc. are matters of importance with the presence of Norwegian helicopter-bearing coastguard vessels. Also, other factors make it absolutely right to confirm the location of Bardufoss. The deliberate bet on local recruitment has led to a very stable strain of technical staff at Bardufoss. Bardufoss has a unique aeronautical and motor engineering professional environment and competence. This environment too is important to provide predictability. The proximity of the Coast Guard North base on Blackland is also important, as has been said. As I said, Bardufoss has a proximity to the northern areas, where at least 2/3 of the problems of the 337 Quadron will lie. It goes without saying that operating distance would be significantly shorter with the 337 quadrant on Bardufoss than on the Sun. I would like to thank the majority of the Committee for its thorough examination of the proposal and for a good conclusion. I feel absolutely certain that the future will show that this was the only right decision, both for practical, operational and economic reasons. I continue to wonder that a document No would be necessary. 8 proposals to confirm something that I believe is already adopted, but I am pleased with the clear confirmation that is taking place today, and that the Council of State is so clearly saying that now the decision is not to be more interpreted, and now the decision is to be followed up. I am very happy to have confirmed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e511	No one disagrees with the importance of the presence in the north, not least the importance of the Coast Guard activities there. But it is strange that the majority today then seems to adopt a way of organising this work that both makes it more difficult and leads to delays in the operational status of both squadrons, and where the consequence will be fewer coastal peaks, which delay the phase-in of helicopter operations – the very opposite of what a broad majority up here on the speaker has highlighted during the debate as the important thing. It is precisely those who will lose through what lies as a proposal for a decision in this matter. To the extent that there is uncertainty about the decisions taken earlier by the majority, this is due to two factors. One is that the minority in the United Kingdom has spoken as if it were the majority represented, and the other is that the Labour Party has created uncertainty as to what they really meant by the proposals that they themselves have promoted, and the proposals that the Labour Party has made. But I think what the representative Nybakk said today, both in his speech and in his reply, gives hope that what the Labour Party really believes is the same as they thought half a year ago, a year ago and three years ago, and in which they have agreed with the government parties. And that is also what the representative of Nordtun said in Stavanger Aftenblad last week, on 27 May; he denies that he has lost anything in this matter. He says, ‘Main management remains on the Sun. The main maintenance must also be carried out. It is not unnatural that the Coast Guard helicopters in the north will be based in the north.» That is exactly what the government parties and the Workers' Party have agreed on so far in this matter. With regard to the decision taken today, it would be fine if the Workers' Party decided whether it is the production that the Workers' Party's representative from Rogaland gives, which is correct, or whether it is the production that the rapporteur in Målselv gives, which is correct. I hope that's the first, because then it should also be possible in the future to find solutions in this case. If that's the last thing, it's sadly the defence that gets lost in a debate that's more about district policy than about defence policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e526	Let me start by saying that I am pleased that there is a majority in favour of the proposal in the vote today, and I am also very pleased that the Labour Party has turned around in this matter. It's a little sad that you couldn't have turned around from the Labour Party a year ago, and maybe we wouldn't have had this debate and the uncertainty that has prevailed on Bardufoss. But I think that the uncertainty of Bardufoss would still exist, simply because the implementation and implementation will from the Council of State is deficient. It has been seen in a number of examples, where the Storing decides one thing and the Government and the Government implement something completely different. Oil protection is a fresh example, where the stockpiles of ammunition and 10 jobs disappeared. It was not mentioned at all in the proposition that was treated for approx. a year ago. And if you read today's VG, you see that you have plans to depopulate North Norway, more or less, militarily. There's a secret plan, and for safety's sake, it's in the VG. What characterises defence is uncertainty and insecurity, and it must be quite frustrating to be in defence with the uncertainty that the Council of State is contributing to. This is mentioned as Stavanger Aftenblad, and I would also like to mention it, where the Council of State says that we should sit down and interpret a decision – and we should certainly sit down with the Workers' Party. Then it is natural to get a clarification from the Workers' Party as to whether you intend to respond to such an invitation, and I just have to remind you that there are a number of parties behind that proposal. Now it's not like the government's interpreting any decisions. Decisions taken by the Stortinget shall be implemented, regardless of whether the Council of State likes it or not. Finally, I will be allowed to commend a person in the Right who sits on the Defence Committee, Åge Konradsen, who has seen the light. I give him credit for supporting what the majority has come up with. I think that's very good. And when the Council of State says that today's decision doesn't change the situation: yes, it does, because the decision we're about to make today, it's going to be implemented, it's not supposed to be interpreted, and I hope the Council of State for the last time has driven and stabbed the rotors in the 337 quadron.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e539	This is an important day for Coast Norway. The size will make it clear clearly that the 337-square – the coastal guard-helicopters – will continue to be on Bardufoss with squadron management. The decision also requires the stationing and operational support of training wings from Bardufoss, even after the phase-in of new NH90. Station maintenance shall continue to be carried out on Bardufoss. The phase-in of the Coast Guard new unit helicopters shall be carried out at Bardufoss. The size has said this in the past, but the Council of State has not wanted to follow up on the intention of the Storting decision. But a clearer decision than what is being taken in the Grand Duchy today is not possible, and the Council of State has to implement and follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy. This is more than a locate question. It's about trustworthiness. It is about defence policy and a comprehensive north-eastern policy. Norway has claimed sovereignty over about 30 pst. of the territory of Europe as a whole. This entails a high level of responsibility in relation to national interest and international obligations. At the same time, we know that the international interest in the northern regions and the resources available here requires, if Norway is to be able to assert its national interest and meet international obligations, its presence in the areas under pressure. Coast Guards are very important in this context. The location of the helicopters to Bardufoss is central to the operating area and to our outermost boundary. The proximity of the fishing protection zone and the grey zone alone means that the coastguard helicopters shall not be moved from North Norway. In addition, Bardufoss has a very strong and unique environment of competence that I would like to praise and thank today from the Stockholm pulpit. If it is not possible to take action to strengthen the Coast Guard and control of our marine areas, we are weakening efforts in the northern regions. And if one had completed the move as the Council wanted, it would mean that Norway would have sent more business out of the northernmost part of the country, at a time when other nations were looking northward. The decision today is that the helicopters will not be flown out of the northern areas – on the contrary. Norway must increase its presence in the north. This serves North Norway, but it serves mainly Norway’s national strategic interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e556	First, I must say to the representative of Korsberg that there is almost no one so rude in this Chamber as the Progress Party. In 2001, the Progress Party voted for the 337 squadron to go to Sola – the entire Progress Party. So did the Workers' Party, and so did all the parties as far as I know, except for the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The Christian People's Party is apparently entering today for it to be on the Sun. So here I think we're all going to be very humiliating to the decision that we made then, and the development process that I'm experiencing has happened in the committee. It is precisely because of developments in the north that we need increased presence of the Coast Guard in the north and more coastal guard ships, and that the helicopters to be on board the Coast Guard are to be stationed on Bardufoss even after the new NH90 helicopters arrive. Last summer, the Stortinget considered the long-term defence plan for 2005-2008. Getting the 337-square stationed at Bardufoss also after the phase-in of the new helicopters was one of the main demands of the Workers' Party on the government parties. These included: that is why we could be in favour of the burden of complaint and the decision-making mechanism of the department. That was one of our main requirements. I will refer to what I myself said in the debate: ‘The coastal watch helicopters, or svadron 337, shall be on Bardufoss even after the phase-in of the new NH-90 helicopters when they are not on board a coastguard vessel or for repair at the manufacturer’s premises.’; This was no doubt about it. Even Bjørn Hernæs stressed in a debate on questions from a replicator that yes, the 337-squaredron should be at Bardufoss. After this decision, there must now be no doubt that the Coast Guard Quadron will be on Bardufoss, but that we have two strong helicopter environments in Norway in military operations. It's Sola and Bardufoss. We know that the NH90 helicopters of all three squadrons are going to train at Bardufoss in the field of arctic training, and that they're going to train at the Sola in the field of simulator activity. The Coast Guard Quadron shall be on Bardufoss with management and maintenance, but will, of course, because the new helicopters have a slightly different device, be on board a vessel to a much greater extent than the old helicopters, and maintenance on board will also be carried out. All these things are at the bottom of the proposal and the decision that we make today, and I also made it clear in my first post.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e574	I'm just going to add some brief comments to the last article from Marit Nybakk. I am still glad that the Workers' Party has turned this case around from last summer, I must honestly say so. It's quite true, as Marit Nybakk says, that in 2001 we had a different view. But what I pointed out was the debate last year. Then there was a minority consisting of the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party that suggested that the ‘337 Quadron be localised to Bardufoss’. It was a minority. And then there was a majority that had a different conclusion. I am pleased that, today, there is a majority in favour of establishing where the 337 quadrant is to be stationed, where the training wing is to be supported, where it is to be phased in, and the whole part of the proposal for a decision. For that is what really is essential, that the proposal is so clear that the Council of State – hopefully – understands the decision and intends to implement the decision for which it is now a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e583	Marit Nybakk has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e586	There was never any doubt last summer that the Workers' Party intended the 337-square to be at Bardufoss. What I later thought was unwise was that the three parties that were not in the agreement submitted a minority proposal, which they had voted down. That's what created the uncertainty, that's why there's been unclear interpretations of the decision that was made and that's why we found it right to introduce a Document No. Eight proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e591	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2587]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e607	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, it is proposed that three replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e616	When this case is now being brought forward, it is in view of the fact that the defence is in the process of phase-in of new NH90 helicopters, which are to be used to replace helicopters for the rescue helicopter service. It may seem, at least from my point of view, that this proposal is not entirely timely, given that the rapporteurs, the Workers' Party and the Centre, have in fact supported the Committee's position on the adoption of a decision, which requires the matter to be annexed to the Minutes. Then it seems strange to me that the matter is being discussed at all, but it is now. It's an interesting thing in and off, but I don't think it's completely time-wise. Overall, hundreds of NH90 helicopters have been ordered in Europe, and options exist for a further very large number. We know that helicopter flight is very expensive, and that money can be saved on using a helicopter simulator. In addition, the simulator provides the opportunity to simulate many situations, emergency landings, engine shutdowns, etc., which are very difficult to practice in real life, of course. The Ministry’s opinions that the acquisition project for the NH90 for frigates and the Coast Guard has always included the provision of a simulator are at the bottom. Due to the high costs, it has always been pointed out that it is interesting to cooperate with other nations on both development, generation and operation. It is therefore essential to work towards potential partner countries in this matter. The Netherlands is very interested, we know, the case has also been discussed with Germany, and as far as I know, the Nordic countries have also recently been contacted, and they are interested in discussing the matter. Since this is an expensive matter for the nation and for the defense, it is interesting. Possible partner countries are an important prerequisite for enabling this project, and therefore, as I said, it is absolutely essential that it be worked out towards other countries. An overall committee indicates that simulator capacity and location need to be clarified through negotiations between the Norwegian authorities, the helicopter supplier and other nations, related to this process. The Committee also points out that the process includes issues related to capacity, training and maintenance, and the Committee considers that this process has not been completed, so there is a discussion between these countries that are interested in cooperating in this. It is clear that it is important for us that this simulator remains in Norway, but a closer location, as the negotiations have not been concluded, cannot be decided at this time. What the Committee is very concerned about, as I said, is that the location is in Norway, and that it is going to work, and that it is being maintained so that it can be clearly located in Norway at a later stage. But since, as I said, the negotiations are going on, it is impossible to say what the outcome will be. The Committee is very concerned that the outcome of the process has a major impact on Norwegian defence. We are also very concerned that the Storting during this process is kept constantly informed about what is going on, and that the Storting finally gets to know what the result is. In view of this, the Committee has, as I said, come up with a proposal for an overall decision, and I therefore recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e633	The activity around Stavanger airport is important for business in Rogaland. It's from here the personnel are flown by helicopter into the North Sea, it's from here the North Sea workers fly home, and it's from here the oil capital maintains its international connections. However, we should not forget the activities of the Defence in this region, mainly represented by the Air Force activities at the Sola Air Station, with the rescue services and the new maritime helicopters to be phased into the period 2005-2008. It is precisely in this context that this proposal to place a helicopter simulator for this type of helicopter on the Sun is very important. The aim of the proposal is to exploit the industrial structure and helicopter environment of the Sun and try to create new high-tech jobs that would otherwise have been located abroad. And when we know that the total in Europe is ordered over 500 NH90 helicopters, and that there is an option of over 100 more, I think it can be a good basis to run a simulator right on the Sun. The Workers' Party wishes to strengthen the helicopter environment in the Sola and believes that the Government should be required to take an initiative to work towards the establishment of such a simulator in private and with private funding. Interest has already been registered with industry in the region. In this context, the proposers propose the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Ministry of Defence to take initiatives towards the business of Rogaland with a view to building a helicopter simulator for NH90 helicopters at Stavanger Airport, Sola/Sola Air Station.’ I am pleased that the Defence Committee is in its position to take care of the defence's need to provide simulator capacity for the acquisition and phase-in and operation of the NH90 unit helicopter. The Committee is also concerned that Norway has secure access to simulator capacity for NH90. The Defence Committee is also aware that it is necessary to cooperate with other nations on the development, generation and operation of such a simulator and that these discussions and investigations have not been concluded. Of course we're aware of that. However, the Workers' Party assumes that the Government will ensure that Norwegian interests and jobs are safeguarded in the ongoing negotiations, and that an active helicopter simulator related to the NH90 is located in Sola. I had probably hoped for a stronger decision inside, of course, than that the matter was attached to the protocol, but the intention is good. It is also gratifying that such a large majority is behind this, apart from, strangely enough, the Progress Party, as in the case-in-law, among other things. says it's not a timely proposal. However, the President of the Progress Party underlines the progress of this new type of helicopter in Europe and Norway, etc. Nevertheless, the Progress Party says that this is not timely, and they almost sabotage the fact that the proposal is annexed to the Minutes. This proposal, which is annexed to the protocol today, provides a certain direction for how to meet these challenges and how to build jobs and industry in Norway in this area. But the Progress Party is therefore opposed to saying that it is a minor matter. Here, the government parties – and the government – and the opposition, apart from the Progress Party, stand together. I think there are few decisions that are politically as strong as this. In conclusion, I would like to add that it is with excitement that I look forward to knowing where the Progress Party will place its alternative simulator, which they actually spoke for, but vote against now, and almost hareble with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e653	The representative of Marit Arnstad was in the previous debate on the question of whether that Document No. The 8-proposal, which was discussed at the time, had some connection with the forthcoming election campaign. We can have our thoughts on that – including on this proposal. If we assume that it can be said that it was then right, we must say that the proposal, contrary to what Mr Width thinks, is very timely. In addition to that, I would just say that it is hardly among the most necessary Document No. Eight proposals put forward by this Assembly. I would also like to fully agree with the proposers, who want to strengthen the helicopter environment at Stavanger Airport, Sola/Sola Air Station by establishing a helicopter simulator there. In this context, I think it is important to emphasise, as the proposers do, that helicopter flight is expensive. A simulator provides opportunities for, for example: simulating situations that are difficult to practice in reality. In the committee setting, a unanimous committee also writes that it is concerned with caring for the defence needs to acquire simulator capacity in connection with the acquisition and operation of the NH90 unit helicopter. The Committee is also concerned that Norway has secure access to simulator capacity for this type of helicopter. In addition, we on the Right are concerned with the cooperation with other countries that can be made possible by such a simulator. Both the Netherlands and Germany are particularly relevant partners, but of course it is necessary to cooperate with other nations on development, generation and operation. For the Right, the international aspect is the most important in this context. The aim is to arrive at a solution that is as cost-effective as possible and at the same time meets the needs of the defence. In addition to this, we on the Right are also concerned about the outcome this process will have for the Norwegian defence. We will therefore ask the Ministry of Defence to inform Stortinget about the outcome of the ongoing process, which is linked to cooperation with suppliers and other countries on the helicopter simulator and maintenance of the NH90, in addition to what is already contractual with the supplier. The right supports the proposal that this document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e664	This is probably one of the proposals that have been put forward in this process of enlargement, with the lowest results in terms of the actual content of the proposal. What is most interesting in this matter is the discussion which has been made visible in the opinion by the fact that, unfortunately, the majority of the Committee is a minority in this Chamber, assuming that the Stortinget is kept in a complementary manner constantly informed of the course of the negotiations, whereas the minority of the Committee – the government parties and the Progress Party – is asking to be informed of the outcome of these negotiations. What are these negotiations? Well, they're connected to the ability to link the simulator question to the acquisition process, in which the Storting doesn't know the details, and the ability to get this simulator in place. I would like to quote from a committee comment in the setting: ‘The Committee points out that simulator capacity and its location need to be clarified through negotiations between the Norwegian authorities, the helicopter supplier and other nations, related to the procurement process around the introduction of new unit helicopters to the Defence.The Committee refers to the overall acquisition and repurchase process resulting from the purchase of the NH90. The process includes conditions related to simulator capacity, training and maintenance, and the Committee considers that these processes have not been completed.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV therefore ask in this case for ongoing transparency in the negotiation process. The party to the progress and the parties to the government do not want this transparency, which may be a prerequisite for achieving a result. Otherwise, I would like to point out that there is a lot that is unexplained about this project, not least the price tag on the simulator. It is completely unknown to the Stortinget and also to the Ministry, as one of the answers to the questions raised by the Committee shows. Finally, I would like to point out that if it is possible to put this simulator in place, it should be located on the Sun. Like several others here, I really wonder what is the motivation of the Progress Party, which in this case is unable to establish a possible location, but chooses to keep this open. As far as I know, there are no other alternatives associated with a possible location in Norway. Or is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e686	The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, is committed to caring for the defence's need to acquire simulator capacity in connection with acquisition and phase-in as well as the operation of the NH90 unit helicopter. It is important that Norway has secure access to simulator capacity for NH90. The acquisition project for the NH90 for frigates and Coast Guard has also included the creation of a simulator. Due to high costs, cooperation with other nations on the development, generation and operation of simulator capacity has always been envisaged. As a consequence of the NH90 acquisition, Norway intends to share the costs with other countries concerning the development of a helicopter simulator for the NH90, including the acquisition option. The Christian People's Party would stress that the simulation capacity and its location need to be clarified through negotiations between the Norwegian authorities, the helicopter supplier and other nations, linked to the procurement process of the deployment of new unit helicopters for defence. However, not all nations are involved. Nordic simulator cooperation found no joint solutions, as Norway was the only country in the Nordic region to order a variant of the marine version of the NH90. In addition to Norway, the Netherlands, France and Italy have ordered the marine version, while Germany is expected to do the same in the near future. In their proposal, proposers focus on the role of business in Rogaland. However, the essential thing here is international cooperation. The Christian People's Party will therefore underline the crucial importance of working against potential partner countries in this context. The Ministry has had contact with Dutch colleagues if possible, and the matter will also be raised with the German authorities. In addition, in the various multi-national Norwegian forums, a clear desire has been expressed for the location of a simulator to Norway. It is necessary to cooperate with other nations on both development, generation and operation. We believe that it should be actively working towards the relevant partners in order for a helicopter simulator related to the NH90 to be located in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e697	It is a good proposal that the defence, in cooperation with the business community in Rogaland, should try to develop a helicopter simulator for NH90 helicopters at Sola and Stavanger Airport, but the committee has been somewhat remarkable in the sense that it has not been possible to get a response on the Norwegian side to work for such a solution. It has not been possible to provide a sufficient basis for decision-making on the feasibility of working for such an alternative, because everything is referred to the negotiations to take place between the different countries involved in this process. We have not received an answer as to how the development of those negotiations could actually be. Therefore, some of us feel that we had no choice in relation to the question of attaching the matter to the protocol, because the basis for the decision was too crazy. But that's a good suggestion. And it is remarkable that it is not possible for the political environment in Norway to say that when there are good plans for a simulator from the Norwegian side, an active struggle will be to get a simulator to Sola – more actively than one says it in today’s Document No. Eight proposals and in today's vote. It's hard to start wondering what might be the reason for it, because you don't have any insight into what's going to happen, or how the negotiations are going to evolve. But it may mean – and that is a speculation – that a calculator calculates that gravity is going to lead to the simulator going abroad instead of in Norway. In that case, it would be unfortunate if, as we now see, we could have a good alternative in Norway. And it would be very unfortunate if something like this were to happen in future negotiations without Norway being given important assignments and opportunities to develop businesses and jobs in other areas. I want to underline this today, because this isn't really just about simulators anymore. This is about what these negotiations between different countries will lead to in the context of the NH90 acquisition, and what Norway will bring out in the seventh and last days. It should be a simulation on the Sun. The central party thinks it is a good suggestion that in that case it will be located in the Sun. However, should it not be a simulator, there should be no doubt that it is then necessary for Norway to receive other contributions linked to important value creation and jobs in Norway. The Progress Party may not be able to say anything about localisation in Norway. Like the representative Bjørklund, I wonder a little bit that the Progress Party is so difficult to participate in the word ‘Sola’. It is possible that they believe that there are other locations in Norway that are current locations. I find it difficult to see it, and the Progress Party has not documented it during the treatment of the adjustment or in the setting. But for the Central Party, we definitely believe that the type of simulation capacity on the Sola is a good proposal and a good idea, and that this should be actively followed up by the Norwegian authorities in the various forums where one is now negotiating in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e708	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e711	I will not take part in a debate on whether this document is No. The 8 proposal is timely or necessary. That debate I think we can have on almost all Document No. 8 proposals promoted in the Stortinget. What is good, however, is that, through the examination of this proposal, a unanimous and collective increase has joined the work of the Government to locate this simulator to Norway and to the Sun. It is important, because it is a clear political signal that this is part of the negotiations that a person wants to give priority to. With regard to the debate we have had in the past today, this is a matter which shows that, in many future contexts, it will no longer be a matter of internal district settlement in Norway, but of national struggles and cooperation with other countries in relation to the functions to be in Norway, in areas as specialised as those we have discussed today. It is also important for us at Stortinget to bring with us in future debates on this type of topic that Norway should have the opportunity to have top-notch environments, we also need to have the ability to create some major common environments in Norway, so that we can be equipped for the cooperation we are going to have with other countries. I am a little surprised that the representative Arnstad was questioning what is the Government's position and policy in this matter, and it appears that it has been almost impossible to find out what is the Government's positions. Then I will refer to a letter sent to the committee, where the Council of State says: ‘In the various multinational forums there has been a clear wish from Norway for a location to Norway.’ Further: ‘A possible simulator collaboration was also the subject of a meeting of the State Secretary of FD Bård Glad Pedersen and his Dutch colleague. The Ministry will also discuss the case with the German authorities to see if there can be opportunities for training cooperation if so. the German marine helicopters to which the Germans are expected to contract in the near future. The Ministry of Defence is also in dialogue with the business community in Stavanger on possible solutions.’ It shows that the Government and the Ministry already, and before this Document No. The 8 proposal was promoted, implementing the measures as Document No. The 8 takes up. But as I said, what is positive about the proposal is that the government, through the treatment today, gets a unanimous growth behind it in that work. I am also surprised at the Progress Party in this matter, which in many ways is in the process of creating such a little doubt about the location of the Sola, which is the only possible alternative in Norway. I would have liked the Progress Party to be able to support it, because I think that would have given Norway a strength in relation to the negotiations that we are going to be going through. I'm disappointed that the Progress Party here is on the sideline.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e732	Several articles have been requested here why the Progress Party does not mention the Sun. It's in the setting here. Negotiations have not been completed. And as long as the negotiations are not concluded, the worst-case simulator can end up in another country. We don't know anything about that, and then the Storting can't decide that it should be on the Sun. The size can't decide it, when we don't know anything more about the process. And when Marit Arnstad says that she has not received an answer on how these negotiations can go: No, of course you cannot get an answer on how the negotiations can go. It's under negotiation! We have said that the simulator, of course – and we will work for that – should be in Norway, but we cannot say that it should be in the Sola, when we do not know about it at all in Norway. I wonder if it is possible to say something like that. In this case, the matter is not timely: No, it is not timely when the negotiations are not concluded and we do not know whether it might end in another country, as I have said. Of course, we also want it to come to Norway, but we do not know where to go in Norway. We are voting in favour of this proposal, along with all the other parties. We agree on this proposal. The document is attached to the protocol, we say. Everyone says that. There can be no doubt about it. If someone claims that we do not believe that this is an important matter when we say that it is not timely, it is quite wrong. Of course, it's an important thing. But as I said, we can't adopt anything that we don't know anything about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e742	It's been a long time since I've heard two so remarkable – excuse me for saying, President – posts from a case rapporteur like what I've heard from Per Ove Wideth in this Chamber today. I have to ask: is it that when you listen to the slightly stuttering post, the Progress Party goes in order to actually add this simulator to the Netherlands, which is one option that we know about? Is it the case that the Progress Party has information that we do not have in the Committee? Why is the Progress Party not involved in a note on which the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are not involved, so we are not interested in transparency in the negotiation process currently under way? I think the representative, Hernæs, could save himself his work park against the Workers' Party and the Center Party on the document proposal. This really isn't about campaigning. This is about caring for Norwegian interests and Norwegian jobs at a time when we know that we are going to have NH90 helicopters for three squadrons – and there are quite a number of helicopters. We know that there are a lot of helicopters elsewhere, among other things. in the Netherlands and Germany, and it must be in our interest to try to get a simulator at the Sola, which is the only place in Norway where it can be located. With regard to the question of whether the simulator is going to the Netherlands, Germany or Norway, there can be no doubt that the Stortinget must have a sun clear right to believe that it will be in Norway. Had it not been for this document No. The 8 proposal, the committee and the Stortinget had also not known that it was a negotiation process. We still do not know whether the negotiation process is linked to the repurchase agreement, whether there is a separate negotiation going on about a simulator, or whether this simulator should be seen in the context of maintenance. Is it the case that maintenance is negotiated with Norway or, for example, with Norway? to the Netherlands? This is one of the issues we have been discussing in the context of this proposal for a document. The Committee notes that there is a need for a simulator for NH90 helicopters and assumes that the Government will ensure that Norwegian interests and jobs are safeguarded. All except the Advance Party points out that a natural place is the Sun. We who are document makers were reassured during this process, on the one hand, that the government said they were negotiating this, but on the other hand, they were worried that it was so difficult to obtain information. We are very pleased that the comments in this setting are so clear and give so unambiguous signals that we think it is entirely right that the document is attached to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e757	Width points out that the negotiations are open and that there are no results. It's obvious to everyone. Arnstad points out the lack of a decision-making basis for the Committee. There has been a problem in this matter. Why does the Progress Party not want in this situation to have continuous transparency in negotiating developments?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e762	Finally, it may be good to have ongoing information, but I can't see that this case means that the Government will at any time come to the Defence Committee or the Stortinge with details of what has happened since the last – then it must be important, and it certainly does if you come to that conclusion. Otherwise, I am amazed that the representative Nybakk does not hear what I am saying. She must have heard wrong, because I said that in the worst case the simulator could end up in the Netherlands – because there are negotiations going on. I didn't say I wanted it to end up in the Netherlands. I said on the contrary that I would like it to be in Norway, and we have to work for that. So there's a bunch of things that go some houses past here. There is no suggestion today that this simulator should be on the Sun. The matter shall be annexed to the minutes, which shall be the draft decision. Then I wonder: will the Workers' Party make proposals here and now that the simulator, which has not yet been negotiated, will be on the Sun? Or what does the Workers' Party really mean by this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e771	That's clearly what the majority in the committee position says in comments. Per Ove Wideth usually tends to be concerned with majority comments, not only of what we adopt. Because of the unambiguous recommendation of a majority of the committee that this simulator is most naturally placed on the Sun, we think it is quite right that the document be annexed to the protocol. It's unanimous. Then we find that it is still unclear where the Progress Party believes this simulator should be and whether it should be at all in Norway. The question is how the negotiations are going. Doesn't the representative Width think it's important that the Stortinget actually give some signals to the Government that we want this simulator on the Sola?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e776	If there may be anyone who is in doubt about what anyone thinks about this matter, and if the majority in the Chamber believes that this simulator should be on the Sun, they have not read the documents. It's clear. I am still amazed that the Labour Party is so very concerned about where it should be, when they themselves propose that the matter be annexed to the Minutes. They know what's going to happen, or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2587]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e801	Usually we are happy and satisfied when we hear that Norway is at the top of the world, that we are the best in the world. I'm not so happy when I know that in the context of gambling – turnover on gambling and the loss of gambling – we are by far the best in Europe, and that we are at the top of the world. Worse still, when we talk about this as an extra tax for people who can't count. It might have something to do with the fact that our education system is not yet good enough, so that we are tempted by these machines. A recent action plan to combat gambling in Norway was presented. One of the problems with gambling is that on the one hand we want to get money for good purposes, and that requires a certain amount of turnover. On the other hand, we know that gambling damage leads to gambling addiction. So this has to be balanced. One of the most problematic is the advertising of this that focuses on the possibility of winning, while there is so far no balanced information about real odds and the chance of losing in the long term. It could have been exciting if the Council of State could comment on the following: when a proposal for an action plan was submitted under the Lottery Act, a sentence was deleted which referred to the fact that there should not be a focus on large profits in marketing. What is the reason why it was removed, when it's clearly one of the core problems? So I'll say a little bit about social economy. We'll probably get between $1 billion and $1.5 billion for good purposes. At the same time, we know that it is approx. 50,000 gambling addicts in Norway. We know that each dependant in the case, in his problems, draws three or five pieces. They're taking with them the family, the job, the community and the big communities. It could be exciting to get some estimates of what it costs socially to have 50,000 people who have such problems. We know the worst results of this, that people can't deal with their problems, that actually quite a lot of people take their own lives, and not least quite a lot of young people. We know that the last year it was a total of 3,000 under 15 years of age who thought about taking their own life, because they got rid of gambling problems. The problem is, of course, complex, but to the extent that there is research and discussions about this, what is said is the overwhelming reason. Every day in Norway it is traded for 140 million. kr. In no other country in Europe, as I said, you lose as much money as we do on gambling. Then for the good purposes. In 2001 – like the Council of State and I want to get back to, with the conditions we had then – it was sold for over 7 billion kroner, but this year we will probably convert for over 26 billion kroner. It goes without saying that the problems are growing over our heads, and that this is a state that is out of control. At the same time, later studies show that a total of 80 pst. Norway’s population is negative to these vending machines. So a little walk into the Red Cross. An agreement was made a year ago with the humanitarian organizations that they would get Norwegian Tipping as a monopoly. It was absolutely necessary to have an agreement with the Red Cross and the Rescue Company. They came out very well with the others. I have to say I am quite shocked when I know that a few weeks after that agreement was in the box, an agreement that ensures the good of the Red Cross, secure income in the long term, they bought themselves into Norwegian Games. They bought out the other humanitarian organizations, and together with the Reitan Narvesen group they bought themselves into the most aggressive commercial gambling company in Norway. So we know that the Reitan Group had plans to deploy 6,000 terminals in Norway to compete with the state's own machines in Norwegian Typing. Then we have to ask, where is the morality in the Red Cross? Then I have come to know in retrospect that the Red Cross did not know about this. But then we have to ask questions about the Red Cross. Is it so that a humanitarian organization like Red Cross puts tens of millions into a company they don't know business plans and business ideas? I expect the Council of State can ask itself the same question. In the same round, it was said by the Progress Party that for individuals and society, gambling addiction is an evil that should be combated. All the other parties said that gambling has its negative sides, as it creates even more gambling addicts. At the same time, we know that all the political parties outside the Christian People's Party, RV and SV, and I also have to mention the Right, which has only one machine out – it's so small, so they can get rid of – have relatively large revenues and sales on such games. Is this acceptable to the Council of State? Or would the Council of State, if a proposal were made that parties should not be financed in this way, be in a position to support such a proposal? Then for aid and poor land. I have become aware that Norwegian Typing has exported games and gaming systems to Sri Lanka, Palestine, Hungary and Bulgaria. Is there that kind of aid policy Christian People's Party – now the Council of State has to answer for itself, of course – finds itself able to support? Does the Council otherwise agree with me that investing in commercial gambling companies is as meaningless and morally reprehensible as investing in companies that produce land mines or tobacco? Because that's what we're doing. Ladbrokes has, for security reasons, brought an action against the State of Norway because they have not received a concession on commercial gambling. So I'm going to fill in the heads of state. An international gambling company is suing Norway because they are not allowed to start commercial gambling. Does the Council have any comments on such a practice? So to international gambling and online games, a problem we've raised before. We know that now poker is online one of the big problems. Studies also show that there is some of the things that trigger gambling the most. Among other things, studies in Sweden show that a very high proportion of those who contact the worry phone in Sweden report poker online as a cause of major problems. It's been said in the past that we can't do anything about this. Why, then, is it prohibited in the Netherlands, that it is banned in Australia, and that it is prohibited in the United States? And the way it's been done! I have previously asked the Council of State to get an investigation into this problem to see if it is possible to do anything about it. I know it's not easy, but we know that there are other countries that have the same problems, and that have actually done a lot. It is possible to prohibit it. You can't do money transactions. But we know that in Norway, the Bank of Norway creates its own accounts for the transfer of such funds. We can deny that, and that means it's going to be risky. In the digital world it will mean that if we stop money transactions, accounts can be created in other countries and played through Cayman Island or Bahamas or whatever it is. But at least that means that the problem would be greatly reduced. It's the same idea that the Council of State has previously had, that reducing the amount of games will mean that fewer will be destroyed in the game. Finally, I just want to say a little about measures. – Now I see my time is up, so I will come back to it in a three-minute post later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e829	As a government council, I get a lot of letters from people who are game addicts, or from friends or family members to game addicts. This, of course, makes a strong impression on me. The problems for most of these are related to games played on automatics. Feedback from the treatment system and recent population studies show that the vending machines are the type of gambling that is the biggest problem here in the country. This is also the background to the proposal by the Government of Ot.prp. No 44 for 2002-2003 was adopted by the United Kingdom on 17 June 2003. The decision in Stortinget on the removal of the current automatic market and the introduction of the one-right model for completely new and much more moderate machines is, in my view, the best clear solution for those who are currently struggling with problems related to today's machines. However, the decision of the Stortinget to wind up current vending machines has, as is well known, been appealed to Norwegian courts and EFTA’s control body, ESA. By a decision in Borgarting Lawyers' Law on 30 November 2004, the State was imposed a temporary ban on the imposition of a one-off right for Norwegian Typing for the operation of payment vending machines until a final judgment was given. At the same time, bans were imposed on the refusal of applications for further set-aside beyond 31 December 2004 on the grounds that the State will introduce a single right. The decision of the Law of Lawyers means that the introduction of the one-right to Norwegian Typing must be suspended and imposes a temporary continuation of today’s unfortunate automatic regime out of 2005. Such an extension is very unfortunate in view of the major problems that result from the automatic operation as it is now. However, in the short term, there is no other way out. The Ministry, in consultation with the Government, has assessed the introduction of a temporary total ban on vending machines until the legal clearance of the one-rights model is complete. For legal and practical reasons, a temporary total ban could be difficult to implement in the period until the judgment of the Lawyers' Court on the issue of one-off issues, including legal force. because such a prohibition will require new treatment in the Storting and new legislation. Moreover, it is likely that there will be an illegal automatic market, as one saw in Sweden when they were banned. Temporary tightening of the rules of the current machine has also been evaluated. The implementation of such changes with regard to the number of vending machines, their location and their mode of operation will, due to the time required for the distribution, the hearing of regulatory changes and the implementation of these changes, be able to take effect in 2006 at the earliest opportunity. Therefore, it has not been possible to implement such regulatory changes until the decision of the Lawyers' Rights is taken. A major problem with the current machine is the technical mode. New rules for automatic technology that provide good protection for the player will have a difficult effect on the current type of machine. I hope, therefore, that we will be able to phase out the existing automatic regime from the coming new year. Pending the judgment of the Lawyers’ Court, the Ministry has extended existing conditions until 31 December 2005. Enforcement of Norwegian Typing monologues to automates awaits the judgment of the Lawyers' Rights. However, I will be allowed to emphasize that the government takes seriously those who have gambling problems. On 19 April this year, the Government presented its action plan against gambling problems. The plan has been drawn up on the basis of proposals from the Lottery Authority. In accordance with the decisions of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 17 June 2003, the Government has determined that up to 0,5 pst. of the surplus of Norsk Tipping AS to finance research, prevention and treatment activities. This will amount to about $12 million for the current year. kr. The interpellant asked if we've looked at what costs it means that 50,000 in Norway have gambling problems. We haven't figured out what it's actually costing society. Much more people in Norway have alcohol problems. We do not, however, prohibit alcohol. We have a lot of these areas of society that we also have to learn from to mitigate the problems. This is one of them. But a full list of the costs I cannot present today. The government action plan has a holistic perspective on the gaming market. I have the impression that the measures adopted are central to getting good and effective solutions to problems related to gambling with money. The plan is intended as a ‘dynamic document’, in the sense that new knowledge can influence the choice of actions and their design. Attention has been paid to the fact that, where appropriate, the actions will be carried out by means of cooperation across etatar and disciplines in order to achieve the best possible effect. The plan is divided into three main objectives: 1st@item: inlistbox The knowledge base on gambling shall be increased.2. Fewer should develop a gambling problem.3. The extent of damage that has caused gambling problems shall be reduced. As I say this should be a dynamic document, we can, of course, in the next round also consider whether we should have a warning against gambling – as the interpellant asked for – especially when it comes to machines, which is the big problem for those who depend on them. The treatment of gambling addicts in Norway has been very varied in quality, depending on the country a cage. Many of the supply has been almost exclusively established on the initiative of individuals involved in the field. The government wants the action plan measures to help increase the overall competence of treatment provision, so that the level and quality of treatment provision should not depend on each cage in the country. The aim is for all health regions to have personnel competent to identify and treat gambling addicts by 2008. The Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have taken responsibility for implementing these measures. Furthermore, it has been proposed to further develop and stimulate easily accessible services aimed at game-dependent, so-called low-threshold services. In this context, we have agreed that the Guide, which is a contact phone for game addicts and their relatives, should be a permanent offer. The Ministry of Culture and the Church and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are currently also working on new guidelines for the marketing of the eight public games Norsk Tipping and Norsk Rikstototo. This work is carried out in cooperation with the Consumer Environment Agency. The guidelines will be adopted in a short time. The main purpose of the guidelines is to ensure that Norsk Typing and Norsk Rikstototo in their marketing are not involved in defamation, and in a defensive way channelling the playfulness against moderate gambling in controlled forms. The Norwegian gambling market is under pressure from foreign gambling companies that want to establish themselves in the Norwegian market, which was also in the interpellant. The biggest challenge comes from foreign sites that offer betting and online poker. These games are not allowed to be marketed in Norway, but it is not forbidden for Norwegian citizens to play on foreign sites, as this falls outside Norwegian jurisdiction. These games are not subject to Norwegian regulation and can often be designed in such a way that there is a high risk of becoming addicted. I think we need a collective international commitment to try and get rid of this. In the Netherlands, they can't forbid people to play online, nor can the other countries. We need to look at what we can do together, together with the other countries in the EU, to try to prevent them from offering a supply to people in Norway as well. We don't have good numbers in relation to the problem scope associated with Internet games. At present, the feedback from the Guide suggests that the automatic market is the dominant cause of gambling problems in Norway, but that problems related to foreign online games, especially online poker, are growing. I see it so that online games can lead to increased problem scope in the future. I will follow these developments carefully in the future. The government has decided to refuse to allow interactive games on the Internet in Norway. Where we have the power, we also have the grip. No extended permissions have been granted for Norwegian Games and SMS. Jackpot. Norwegian Typing and Norwegian Rikstototo are allowed to distribute existing games, such as: Lotto and football tipping via the Internet, but they are not allowed to develop interactive online games. I think it's important that people know the negative aspects of Internet games. I want to meet this bloom of new gambling offerings with information about the risk of negative ringing and encourage people to be cautious about these games. The interpellant asked a lot of questions. I have answered in the article, but not all. When it comes to the morals of the Red Cross and to the parties, I believe the parties must answer for themselves. I know that some of the organizations have felt that getting money this way. I get that. Therefore, as part of their strategy, they want us to have a switch to the automatic market. It is also natural that the political parties that receive income from these are some of the strategies to which the Storting has joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e879	Governments drew a comparison with alcohol and said that she would not ban alcohol. I have also made no proposal to ban games. But I would think that if the consumption of alcohol in Norway had been quadrupled in five years, which is actually the reality of gambling, perhaps the Council of State would have considered some measures. So the Council of State has done so, and she has been given our support. When I draw up some new points today, new proposals to do something about this, I would ask the Council of State to make an assessment, for example. by online gambling. It is not that because something is going to be done internationally, it is not possible to take its own initiative. Norway, and not least the current government, has taken initiatives, for example: to introduce a smoking law. Now it's not a directly transferable example, but that means it's possible to go ahead. It is actually possible to take your own initiative. No one is preventing Norway from doing so. What I'm asking you is, when they can do it in the Netherlands, and even the United States and Australia do it -- I didn't say we're going to introduce it -- can't we also get any considerations about it? Can't we get a round on that? I can't see why the Council of State can't be involved. So to another thing -- treatment and treatment sites. We know that it is difficult to get treatment for gambling addiction. There's a phone that we also supported, and it's a great offer. It shows how big the problem is. The problem is that there are not enough treatment sites, that there are queues for treatment, and that there are no treatment sites in all parts of the country. Now the council says it's coming. For every day that goes, we know that there will be new game addicts, not least with what's online now. Just because the proposal the Council of State has promoted in the past, which has received our support, cannot enter into force, there is a need to put in place additional measures now to deal with gambling dependence, so that no more are affected by the ongoing legal proceedings. What the Council of State is doing is raising the threshold for treatment. The government we now have has introduced a self-payment of NOK 1585 over the last year, which has resulted in the fact that the disqualification of the players has been large. There's a speciality here, and they don't have to worry about it. But we know the result. For those groups that are most vulnerable, it has disastrous consequences. I must commend John I. Alvheim, who raised this question with the Council of State Gabrielsen in February. He then got a sort of response that they were in a competitive situation with psychiatric outpatients, and that therefore it was reasonable to demand self-interest. We have to look at the consequences, how it affects, and not just look at what the Council of State thinks is reasonable. We want more treatment sites, and we want to remove the excess. How does the Council of State feel about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e896	It is clear that it is possible to achieve its own measures. But I probably also thought, as the interpellant said, that using smokenova as an example – that’s a good example of a good action, but one can’t go online and get smoking at a restaurant abroad, to say it like that – wasn’t the best example one could use. I have nothing against getting information from the Netherlands or from the United States to see how they can do it. So we can come back and see what they can do, in relation to, for example, online poker and games online. Because there's something we can learn from them, so that we can limit access here in Norway, that's very good. I can promise the interpellant that we'll get information and give it in an appropriate way to the Storting, if there's any interest in it. The action plan that we have adopted will be developed in line with the needs and, as I mentioned in my reply, we will have an offer in all states of the country by 2008. So the action plan is dynamic, and the action plan can be revised all the way. It can be done better, and it can be allocated more resources as one sees that it is needed. When it comes to what goes on, I understand what the interpellant says. At the same time, those who need their health services in society have to pay a great deal of money for their belongings. Distinguishing some areas that shouldn't, while others are going to do it, I'm not sure I'm that very lucky. I then ignore what goes on in hospital, which has another form of property policy at the bottom. So I understand that the Minister of Health replied that they should be treated the same way. To that end, with the doubling of turnover and the comparison with the consumption of alcohol, it is clear that we have seen a multiple, not from 7 billion to 26 billion from 2001 to 2004, but from 9 to 26 billion from 2001 to 2004. Organisations have agreed to a reduction in the supply of funds in proportion to what they would have received with 9 billion on the market. They've agreed to go down to a level of 6-7 billion dollars. I am pleased that the organisations have given us support in this work. Because if we hadn't done anything, they'd get very high incomes in the years to come, and of course they're also looking at the money they're losing. I think the support we've had from the organizations has been a good moral support, which shows that they will also take a loss to rock people. It's good that they do it. So I'm going to come back to Stortinget with a follow-up to the action plan. As I said, I will also come back with recordings in relation to what is going on in the other countries that have it forbidden by the interpellant that they have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e911	It's an important matter the interpellant takes up. Various games are to the delight of many in Norway. There's not a few people sitting on the Lotto draw, who come along on the football round, or who put a few dollars on a machine when they get past you. They are largely to the delight and largely also to the great enrichment of many organisations, sports teams and the large associations involved in humanitarian work and other activities that are useful to society. They generate revenues, big revenues, and here it is absolutely vital that we manage to keep the gambling revenue on Norwegian hands, especially in relation to Lotto and the football tipping. We see how large international actors are also trying on the Norwegian market, actors that have no division with charities at all. We have a ban on advertising that we should maintain. We should also look at online games, payment schemes, etc. as far as possible, whether there are ways to protect our games and channel the money to be spent on games into systems where voluntary organisations benefit from them. But then, like alcohol, which can also be a pleasure in some cases, it becomes a big problem for some people. There are some who are unable to control their gambling, especially on machines, with tragic consequences both for themselves, for the family and for the private economy, and this creates social problems. That is why it is important to have legislation. We support the government's conversion to Norwegian Typing taking over the gaming market also in the case of vending machines, and we do not notice because, as claimed by some, we are going to control the cash flows or get more profit – we could easily have done that for the private players too – but because we want to have direct influence and control of what kind of games are being used, how many games are being outsourced, so that we can easily intervene if there is something that we think is unfortunate. We want public governance. It's the motive, not the money. Therefore, I also believe that there should be no basis for any EEA and ESA intervention in that type of instrument. Of course, it is also important to have help and support for those who still have problems. It is good that the Council of State announced that it would like to have a treatment offer up to all states within a relatively reasonable time. That's how the earlier you get in and get help, the less you get into financial problems and get the kind of consequences. Then there's a last, little problem -- it's not small -- that I hope the Council of State can clean up, and I hope she does. This applies to the vending machines of Norwegian ships engaged in international traffic. Here the Norwegian legislation will apply, with quite dramatic consequences for the income of these boats. This could lead to flagging out instead of reducing gambling activity. That is why we believe from the Workers' Party that good solutions need to be found for these ships, so that the result is not exactly as much spillage, but that the boats are flying flags other than Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e931	‘That was an interest ‘turning’ — to put it that way. The representative Giske was here now and almost proposed the same thing as we suggested in a proposal for the introduction of monopoly. The Labour Party voted against that. Now they've probably seen that maybe it's better to promote this proposal yourself. So populists are all of us in these election times. In his interpellation, the representative Bergo says the following: ‘The Minister of Culture has suspended the introduction of the monopoly on the operation of slot machines until 31 December 2005 pending a judgment in the Law on Lawyers’ Rights. At the same time, we see that more people have gambling problems. Marketing gives rise to unrealistic expectations and loss problems persist’. Yes, he may be right. But it may also happen that he is not right. He turns around with numbers that he doesn't document at all. I have a great deal of understanding of the concern, and it is quite relevant to address the issue that the interpellant has in this interpellant, but I think it is going to be very disappointing when you can't document the numbers. When we dealt with the Lottery Act, the Advance Party and SV promoted a proposal to use not half, but actually a whole percent of the revenue on games for research and treatment of gambling addicts. It didn't get a majority, unfortunately. If it had a majority, you might have had more funds. It might have been possible to avoid the introduction of proponents on the treatment of gambling addicts. You might have initiated researchers to provide statistics to get real numbers on the table. I think there is something going on when you demand a fair share of treatment for people who have played from the farm and land. It's almost taking away those who have nothing. More research should undoubtedly be done in this field, because although the representative Bergo says that there is sufficient evidence, the gambling market is, like everything else, in a raging development. Different new games show up, with no ringing coins at all, but you're obviously addicted to silent games on the Internet. Yes, we're going to have an offer for the gambling addicts, and we're going to and should strengthen research in this field. But I'm far from sure that the ban is the way to go, neither in the case of vending machines, nor in the case of the introduction of a monopoly on vending machines. I also do not believe in any prohibition, that someone should be able to enter and stop the money transactions in my bank account.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e949	There are probably a lot of games that can give game addiction, but I want to focus my post on slot machines. The Norwegian vending machine market has developed over a long period without sufficient public regulation and control. It was absolutely necessary to do something when, in 2003, the Stortinget joined the Government's proposal to grant Norwegian Typing the exclusive right to operate machines from 1 January 2006. The background to the decision was inter alia: that vending machines we now have are increasingly creating problems with gambling addiction. Treatment institutions for gambling addiction report a very strong increase in the number of people who have serious problems dealing with their gambling behaviour. This unfortunate development is consistent with the development of automatic turnover. From 2001 to 2003, sales from vending machines increased from DKK 8.9 billion over DKK 15 billion in 2002 to NOK 22.7 billion. Fresh figures show that turnover has increased to NOK 26.3 billion in 2004. There are many voluntary teams and organisations that are very concerned about what happens to today's vending machines. In 2004, the vending machines amounted to NOK 26 billion. After the winnings were paid, the profit was approx. NOK 5 billion for distribution between voluntary organisations, private operators and local holders. Of this, the organisations received approx. NOK 2 billion. There is no doubt that today's automatic operation leads to major problems for those who become addicted. 80-90 pst. of those calling the help phone for gambling addiction have questions about and problems with the machines. One estimates that approx. Fifty thousand people have gambling problems today. That this is a major problem shows a survey conducted by Norsk Typing and Norstat in May, which shows that 80 pst. by the respondents, the automates have a slight or very negative impact on society. 38 pst. replied that they knew someone who knew or thought they were gambling addicts. 75 pst. agreed in full or in part that gambling should be operated under strict State control. Developments in recent years have strongly supported the decisions taken by the government and the size of the population. I also want to show that the government has taken seriously the problem of gambling addicts. An action plan against gambling dependence has now been presented. The Norwegian gambling market will be monitored in a completely different way than before with regard to the mechanisms that could lead to unfortunate gambling behaviour. The first step, which has already been taken, and which will soon be adopted, is guidelines for the marketing of State-controlled gambling. These must be kept in a socially sound manner. The best way to ensure that gambling in Norway is conducted and developed satisfactorily is to take into account the gambling addicts rather than the commercial interests. The authorities need to be able to carry out rapid revisions as necessary. I think we have to fight on to get the big grip on the slot machines done. Only in this way can we get control that will last over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e964	I am pleased with this interpellation, because it is important to keep this theme warm, not least in the interests of opinion and in the interests of the various players in the gambling market today. It is not going to come from the fact that there has been a tremendous development since I was confronted with these problems for the first time in the previous growing-up period, and until today. I think it is interesting to see that the Progress Party now recognises that the issue of gambling in Norway is really a matter of concern. I remember very well from previous debates here in Stortinget when the representative Simonsen represented the Progress Party, that the figures presented as suggesting an initial gambling dependency problem in Norway were denied. I think it's nice that you can agree on that recognition, because that means that you also have to agree to find solutions. I believe that in this context, the Council of State has demonstrated both the power of action, the will and the ability to find solutions. You haven't really gone the last step. One step has been taken on the road, but so far it has stopped. But it must be in everyone's interest that this be passed on. There has, of course, been a debate on the means of voluntary organisations, humanitarian organisations, etc. would be paid as a dividend. There have been fights against us magnification representatives. None of us have avoided contact from good people in our own home countries. Here they have said that they get money for music orps and for one and the other good purpose, funds that they are now afraid of losing. That's why I started by saying that I think it's good with this interpellation, because it keeps a warm side to this that we all have to be aware of – not just we who are sitting on the Stortinget, but around the community. Here it's aspects of something that we see as a everyday thing, that can have negative consequences, and that for that reason we have to do something about, not to deprive people of pleasure, but to follow up on addictive machines, in this case. I wish the Council of State happiness for further, and I also think there is reason to wish interpellanten happiness for further on this work, which is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e979	First, a little walk into the representative Woldseth and numbers: there's actually quite a lot of research. That Woldseth doesn't know about the research, I can't take responsibility for it. I think that the research that would convince the representative Woldseth and the Progress Party on these questions does not exist. It is quite correct, as Marthinsen says, that it is not that long since the Progress Party from this pulpit called gambling ‘the so-called problem’. If the smoking law was a bad example – yes, on the move I did not find anything better. But what I tried to show with it was that it is possible to be independent in Norway, it is possible to take independent initiatives. In the case of excesses – since it is not possible to do anything about the situation that is now – I hope that the Council of State has also noticed that we have not demanded any intervention in the process or in the gaming market. We are very pleased with the work of the Council of State. She's had our support all the way. We do not require immediate action now. But I also have to say that if it turns out that there are several cases, that this will go out in time, we will probably have to consider whether we should do something, but I expect that the Council of State will also find out. But we're in an extraordinary situation where the money flows into the cash register, also into the state, because we've decided we're going to spend 0.5 pst. of what is coming in, just for action. Then I find it pointless to introduce a proponent, because it affects the weakest, even the addicts. They're the ones who can't do this. We know that this will only reinforce the problem: they don't get treatment, and that means they keep playing. And as I've said before today, it doesn't just affect them, it affects family, children and communities. In an exceptional situation, pending the legal proceedings, it must also be possible to make an exceptional allocation in order to avoid any aggravation of that kind of treatment. I ask the Council of State to bring it one more round. Then I will give praise to the Council of State. During this period, the Council of State has been responsive and has contributed. And as the representative Marthinsen also said, there has been a change in attitude in Norway over the last four years. We have given our contribution, but I commend the Council of State for contributing to the same thing. Money games are poor taxes. Low-income families spend eight times the amount of their income on it than those provided. The Council of State has not commented on what it is possible to do, namely marketing and advertising, where the Council of State is in a good position compared to the largest advertising user in Norway, namely Norsk Typing. I have not received any comment as to why the sentence not to focus on the big gains was removed from the Lottery Authority's action plan. We can do something about advertising: less advertising, more soberness and more consumer information.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e993	I must say that it is a bit polite to be in the Storting and have such a peaceful and good debate as the one we have had today, where everyone is as few as we are, at least almost everyone. I expect that the temperature will rise towards Saturday, but then we will have to have a new debate in other areas. First, a response to the representative Giske when it comes to automatics on Norwegian ships: what we need to be aware of is that the Norwegian ships that have automatics have large revenues. These revenues are only returned to the fleet layers. They're not going to social work at all. It's completely meaningless, because we say that gambling is outlawed in Norway, but it's legal if income goes to social work. Then we think about culture, we think about sport, and we think about all of this that we know so well. I have to say, I didn't think helping the riders is a socially useful job. They tend to have good enough income anyway. That they believe in flagging out, I didn't think we should bite. We have to clean this up. The revenues from these vending machines are going to be social work, and we don't define riding activity within that category. I'm assuming the Labour Party doesn't either. Then I want to thank the interpellant for the initiative. I think it's important to keep the pain warm. We will soon have matters raised in Borgarting law. She starts on Monday. It's an exciting time we're going to meet, it's a matter of allowing us, as a nation, to have our own national policies in this area, and of allowing us to have them. I have always had good contact with the majority at Stortinget when this was the case, and I thank you for that. And I'm also going to assume that we're going to have to keep going. We need to stand together, because we know that there are great economic powers standing against us. They spend a lot of money on both lawyers and other things to counteract the decisions the Storting has made. But of course, we'll also consider what we're going to do if this pulls out in time even once. It's a responsibility that the department assumes, and that I'm really taking seriously. I also take with me the signals that go on this with the property. Then there are many who have been saying that there has been a change in attitudes among people over the last four years. I have to be allowed to remind you that the government actually meant almost the same thing four years ago. We wanted to do some grips then, but the Storting wasn't with us, as they have fortunately become now. But a doubling of the problems in the gaming market has helped to change the grips. We're working on what's going on in marketing. I also said that in my post, so if the interpellant reads the record, he will see that I say that we will come back to what goes on marketing and advertising. We're working on it, and then we're going to have to evaluate recordings in relation to warnings. They're the ones we think we should come with warnings on the slot machines, like we have on the smoke pack. We're going to evaluate this, and then we'll come back to that plan when we're done with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1006	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1020	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1027	This is in many ways an important day. This is the first time the Stortinget deals with a notification of training in the field of criminal law. We have received a broad research evaluation of prison training that shows that we have great and many challenges in training. At present, training is simply too small, it is unsystematic, and there is too little systematics in the cooperation between the various departments. The evaluation also shows that 34 out of 47 prisons are being trained. So 13 is untrained. 80 pst. the prisoners have not completed primary school. 13 pst. by prisoners who have not completed secondary education. 65 pst. of the prisoners under 25 years of age have not completed secondary education. Prisoners have a much lower level of education than others in the country, and we know that a whole of 65 pst. of the prisoners, they have at least one training wish. This is motivation that needs to be followed up. The majority state that the school in prison must have the capacity to meet the needs and to respond to the various educational needs of the prisoners. The monitoring of the educational background and educational needs of prisoners shows that a high number of prisoners report reading and writing problems and learning difficulties in mathematics, about 30 and 40 pst respectively. That's why I'm glad the government says it's going to launch a pilot project in this area. I am very pleased that the Stortinget had previously taken a decision asking the Government to present its own report on prison education and to promote a comprehensive action and funding plan. Today we are dealing with this message. This is, as I said before, a historical bigotry message. This is the first time such a notification is made in Norway. The message and the settings are wide and embrace a lot of areas. The Communication contains a number of positive proposals based on a broad research-based evaluation of prison training. The comments made today by the Committee will further strengthen the communication and make it more committed. Today, the size of the population adopts a clear improvement in the provision of training for prisoners. It is important to see training in relation to the needs and assumptions of the prisoners. In prisons, different groups with different training needs are defined. While some prisoners were in an educational situation before prison, others had low or poor initial education. A majority, all except the members of the Progress Party, are behind much of the vote. I will not go into the position of the Advance Party in my post. I expect them to explain that for themselves. Training in criminal matters is of great importance. It contributes both to better rehabilitation for individuals and is an important contribution to greater social security. Increased training provision in prisons must therefore be seen as an investment for the future. I see it as important that the message focuses on the ambitions of developing training in the field of criminal services at the same level as in the rest of the school, and of giving prisoners the same rights as the population, and that foreign prisoners are also given the right to education, and that teachers in prison training are given the same opportunity for training and training as those who teach outside. As I was about to say, a pilot project on learning difficulties will be launched among Norwegian prisoners. I also indicate that the project will be evaluated afterwards. It is necessary to facilitate the provision of training throughout the school year, as stated in the main message, and this is important. The size has said that you want to strengthen the counselling service, and that this will apply to the entire field. The Advisory Committee shall be established. Another point the Government presents is the strengthening of the real competence assessment. The Committee agrees with the Government that this is important. The majority of the Committee focuses on the fact that organised training for women is an important field and that it is a challenge. This needs to be better facilitated. The Committee also draws attention to the need to strengthen the practical and aesthetic disciplines, while at the same time seeking to strengthen the profession. We have focused on a project called ‘Music in Prison and Freedom’. We want this to be a country-wide action with solid funding, and we ask the Government to come back with proposals in this regard. Something else that is important, and that you pay attention to on the part of the majority, is follow-up after an end of reconciliation. I will come back to this later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1057	Initially, I would like to point out that the message has received a very good reception in the committee. There is broad agreement on the measures proposed by the Government. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that prisoners should have the same right to good and organised education as other citizens of society. This is a raging principle, which has also been the basis for our treatment. On the part of the Workers' Party, I would like to stress that the possibility of education under restitution can be the very element to help young offenders and others to a better life – a life without crime and without degradation. In our work on this message, we have constantly come back to the need for good cooperation between school and work in prison — this also being seen in the context of the ability of prisoners to assess their real competence. Per. Unfortunately, there are several Norwegian prisons today that do not provide education in the form of housing. That, in my view, is very regrettable. Similarly unworthy is the fact that the Norwegian prison system has failed to facilitate training for female prisoners, even though statistics show that women are generally more interested in taking education under accompaniment than men are. The majority of the Committee therefore also calls for better organisation for this group. The provision of education for both women and men should, of course, primarily help to improve the life of the convicted offender, while at the same time being seen as a prevention measure on the part of society. Finally, I would like to refer to a joint comment from SV and the Workers' Party where these two parties stress that school and work leave should be used to a much greater extent than today. In this way, prisoners will be able to access society’s ordinary services, such as libraries and treatment services. In order to implement the measures announced by the message, a review of the funding of training in the field of criminal law is necessary. The Workers’ Party, together with SV, therefore proposes that the Government provide during 2006 a financing plan for prison training that ensures a predictable framework. It must be an objective for all prisons to be able to provide education and training, better provision for women prisoners who want such an offer, and the prioritisation of professional subjects. The Labour Party will not vote in favour of the SV's proposal, proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox We find it problematic whether the Storting should decide that, as the proposal states: «Participants in the project shall be provided with permanent work...» It's not as simple as the Storting can decide that people will get a steady job.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1081	St.meld. No 27 have received a positive reception both in the professional community and during the examination in the Committee. The Committee agrees on most comments that are positive to the Government’s proposals. Before I go further in my post, I think it is important to stress that today's prison education is good, and that we get a good and worth offering in Norwegian prisons already today. Training for prisoners in Norwegian prisons should be improved. In order to achieve this objective, better opportunities for adapted training shall be provided, greater emphasis shall be placed on vocational training and a better follow-up after imprisonment shall be ensured. In the right, it is positive that the notification is so clear both on the situation description and on the tools to improve prison education. The main instruments are to ensure that the content of the training is equivalent and that it provides the same competence as the school elsewhere. The Communication proposes to continue the current administrative cooperation model. The principle that the nearby school is given responsibility for training in prison is to be continued. This has proved to be a good organization, which works very well. Prison education can thus benefit from a wider range of teachers and thus gain a wider range of services, as there is a wide variation between the needs and needs of prisoners. For the Right, it is positive that a broad majority support this model and that the broad majority also agree that the overall responsibility lies with the Ministry of Education. Vocational training offers have received a wide range of references in the communication. There needs to be greater and better cooperation between the school in prison and the workplace. This cooperation is not very close enough in some places. Work shall also build skills and close contact with the school is often necessary and natural. It is important to stress the possibility that several of the workshops are recognised apprenticeships. This is being used too little. The majority also emphasise the need for skills development and empowerment of teachers in prisons. The government is making a record effort to increase school competence through the Knowledge Lift. This increase in competence must also be shared by prison teachers. ICT is also of great importance in prison education. On the right, we will stress the importance of good solutions that meet both the pedagogical and the safety challenges. In Norway, recreation is used to a small extent. The right agrees that prisons can assess the playoffs of prisoners who may benefit from it in the training. It must be emphasised that an assessment must be based on the needs and safety of the prisoner for other citizens. It is natural to assume that play must mainly take place from open prisons. Therefore, the right does not agree with the left-hand side, which wants an uncritical use of play as an instrument. 13 out of 47 prisons do not currently have training facilities. Studies confirm that there is a great need for training in those prisons that do not currently have an offer. There has also been an increase in the number of settlements without an increase in the teaching framework. There is reason to point to this fact, since it is undoubtedly such that good training increases the possibility of a life without crime after an end of reconciliation. I would therefore like to refer to a comment where the Right is involved, asking for a plan to be drawn up to ensure that training is provided both in prisons that are currently not trained and where there is a lack of capacity. St.meld. No 27 points forward. The importance of prison education is underlined and put in the right context. It is therefore with great satisfaction that I note the broad consensus both on the factual description and on the measures proposed to improve the teaching of increased competences among prisoners.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1109	Before I forget that, I'm taking up all the proposals of the Advance Party in the vote. So to the matter. The Progress Party is pleased that the Government has, through the Communication, followed up decisions based on proposals promoted by the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party of the Budget. S. No 12 for 2003–2004 on prison education. The Party agrees that the objective of training in criminal matters is the same as for other training. Nevertheless, we believe that training in criminal care must have realistic objectives in relation to the student’s settlement framework. Realistic objectives include strengthening basic skills and vocational education and training based on real skills. The party points out that the need for adapted training is particularly important in prison education, where the skills and prerequisites of the students are very different, and where the proportion of students with difficulty in reading and writing and learning in mathematics is very high. The Progress Party underlines in particular the ability of prison education to provide a basis for all prisoners to cope with social and work life. Not only for prisoners who are students of rights, but for all prisoners, professional training of shorter and longer duration must therefore be facilitated, based on real competence and better use of the recognised educational establishments of the prison. Nevertheless, the Progress Party considers that students of rights must and must be given priority. The Progress Party has noted that the Ministry will continue the principle that a nearby secondary school is given responsibility for training in prison, where the local school and school owner need to use a larger range of teachers both from the local secondary school and from other schools in the county. The Progress Party has noted that the Ministry sees this as an important measure to avoid the school being perceived as part of the prison and being developed towards a self-sufficiency model. The party of progress does not share this view. The Party considers, on the contrary, that a variant of what is called the self-sufficiency model should be considered and that an extended link between ordinary school and training in criminal matters should not take place. We have noticed that the so-called import model is unique in Norwegian prisons, but the other Nordic countries have chosen a different model. The Progress Party wants the Ministry of Justice to be given overall responsibility for all measures in the overall implementation of penalties, based on a mix of the so-called self-sufficiency model and the contract model. We have therefore put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on the organisation of overall action against convicted offenders in a model in which the Ministry of Justice is given overall responsibility.’ We assume that the ministry not only assesses, but actively implements measures to clarify the formal responsibility for follow-up after completion of criminal proceedings, so as to avoid interruptions in educational provision, and that this is naturally done within the framework of a new model of organisation. Let me stress that the Advance Party opposes the increased use of play in the field of training in the field of criminal law. In conclusion, we have noticed that the financing of training in criminal matters takes place through earmarked State grants, and that this is based on agreements between the State and each county that has prisons in its county from 1989 onwards. The Progress Party considers that a review of the financial instrument should be carried out, and establishes a financing mechanism based mainly on State-funded unit-price financing, which includes arrangements for the completion of initial training even after completion of training, and also promotes such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1136	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1139	‘Schooling gives us an opportunity to make a change in life’, said a prisoner at Shem Prison at Tønsberg’s Blade last week. He has soon gained general study competence while he is curtailing his punishment. As a prison, there are 12 permanent school places and a penitentiary and offer individual training for prisoners with a letter and visitation ban. A survey shows that two thirds of prisoners want to go to school while in prison, and 65 pst. of the prisoners under 25 years of age have no secondary education. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to clarify that the Training Act also applies to prisoners in prisons. Training helps to give the ransom a content that matters. The communication we are discussing today is therefore important for further education in prison. We know that 13 prisons have no school offer today. It is necessary, as the Communication states, to draw up a plan to ensure training in these prisons as well. The revised national budget for this year has proposed an increase of 91 places in settlement capacity, and it has also been proposed to increase the entry for training in criminal services by 1.6 million. kr for just being able to provide training to these prisoners. In the context of a Nordic monitoring of prison education, the report ‘Learning behind the walls’ points out that well-developed prison education is believed to be a criminal prevention investment. More people will go to higher education and work after the end of their term of residence. Education will also be part of the work of creating a platform to stand on after release. The Fafo report on living conditions among prisoners refers to the many prisoners who have difficulty reading and writing. There is a great need for special education, but most importantly training is adapted. It is therefore important for the pilot project that the Ministry will launch in order to develop targeted tailored training. Tailor-made arrangements are essential. The prisoner can then also be held responsible, and it is easier to follow up. Teachers must have the skills to meet the specific needs of the prisoners for training and also need to be trained as other teachers. They also need skills in adult education. It is of great importance for many to have a survey of an overall educational cycle that begins in prison and can be completed outside. It requires cooperation between criminal services and the education sector. The critical moment is at release. Here the follow-up is important. The notification points to the possibility of coordinating school training with work, programmes and other offers. Just concerns about work, housing and drug abuse can create barriers to learning. One must therefore strengthen the faith of the prisoners in himself and in his own ability. In this context, I will refer to the Steinkjer model mentioned, which should be further developed for use in different types of prisons. Real competence assessment is an important tool. You can then assess the actual skills you have, even if you have not gone to school to reach them. Vocational training in particular is requested, and the notification of gross domestic product indicates that it needs to be strengthened. So do the practical-esthetic subjects. It's suggested 1 million. extra in the revised national budget for the library service in prisons. Prisons included in the State-funded prison library scheme include more than 50 pst. of the shelters. In 2002, there were 89 loans per year. inserted, while average lending per. The population in Norway was 5.3. It is important that plans to strengthen the grant of the library service in prisons are followed up. Two new prison libraries can be created through the new allocation in the revised national budget. This is also important for good prison education. I am pleased that the message gets a good response both here today and outside in the relevant environments. It promises well for the future, so that even more people can get a school that, as was said, gives ‘the ability to make a change in life’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1160	Training and competence are important for all people. Today, when the Stortinge deals with pre-criminal care training, one focuses on the provision of training to people as sons. Education helps to rehabilitate individuals from reconciliation to society. It is an important contribution to greater security in society. The centre party believes that a better and stronger educational provision for this group of individuals is a good investment, for the individual and for society. The size of the population will strengthen prison education by facilitating the possibility for individuals to take part in appropriate training. The central party agrees with the Government that teachers in prison training must have access to the same skills as teachers in ordinary school. It's a fact that there's a high number of inserts that have great read and write problems and learning difficulties in mathematics. This must be taken into account. The centre party of my real competence assessment will be an important hub for the deployments, so that one can identify the kind of education that each individual needs. We believe that it is good that the Government will launch a project with real competence assessment of deployments where the principle of custom training is to be based, and that the project is to be evaluated. Furthermore, the Central Party believes that the school in prison should provide all or part of vocational training to a greater extent than at present. Several prison workshops are approved educational establishments, but evaluations show that workshops are used to a small extent as training centres for formal vocational training. The library is currently an undervalued source of information and a balancing position in many municipalities, including prisons. An important part of the commitment and activity we want when it comes to training in prison is that libraries are strengthened. The Central Party supports the Ministry that, when prisons are to be expanded or refurbished, schoolrooms are to be included in the construction programme. But the Central Party believes that there must also be plans to develop schoolrooms in existing prisons, even if there are no major development plans. Education facilities shall not be initially dependent on each son. Too many people experience too much inactivity in prison, and being sent out with a plastic bag or two and little follow-up afterwards. Indeed, securing better training is securing a much better platform for individuals, with the benefits this brings both for those with children and for society. This SMS must be followed up in the future budget. It's not surprising, but it's a little surprising that the government party can't agree to say anything about it. There is a proposal for a government budget for 2006 to present a financing plan for prison education to ensure a sound framework. You must be required to add such a plan in order to follow up this message. And that's how the Storting actually asked the Government for a holistic action and funding plan when this message was ordered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1181	I do not need to say so much about this setting, except that I am very satisfied with it. It seems to me that the rapporteur and the committee have done a very thorough job, and I am, of course, pleased that there is such a big deal about the Government's proposals. It is also my impression that this message has been well received outside this house. The very starting point for the notification is that good training for prisoners increases the possibility that they can live a life of self-righteousness and without new crime when the criminal execution is over. There are also many good examples of this. Another starting point is that they have the same educational rights as others, although to some extent they need to be balanced against the practical frameworks of criminal execution. It is also a starting point that we have to realize that the task of filling these rights with content is more demanding than otherwise. This is due, inter alia, to: the level of education in this group is lower than in the general population. On average, we might talk about a level of knowledge that is 25 years back in time, that the youngest have special needs, and that we may need a complete overview of needs and wants. It is also a challenge that the pattern of prison prisoners and their use has changed, with longer sentences in prisons used in the past for short-term sonar. And prison, of course, sets some framework in itself physically and in relation to the school that is setting itself up differently, among other things. by having a school year that is not necessarily adapted to a prison year, so to speak. The starting point is that these problems are not being solved well enough today, although, of course, they are being solved well in relation to very, very many other countries. Now we have some evaluations and reports that tell us more about the status and situation of Norwegian institutions. Then, basically, my simple starting point is that the objective is that the reforms we have implemented in our country in terms of education, namely the reform of competence, the quality reform in higher education or the forthcoming promise of knowledge in primary and secondary education, and the desire for higher quality in training, should also apply to prisoners. Therefore, in this Communication, the Government has proposed a number of concrete measures to achieve this, such as a more sensible start-up and end-of-training, a more comprehensive educational cycle, including for prisoners, real competences assessment, which I believe is very important, adapted to training, the use of ICT in a way that reconciles itself with the criminal execution itself, professional training by using prison in a more active way, among others, and the development of skills for teachers. Many other proposals have been mentioned here now, and I appreciate that these are getting a lot of excitement here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1196	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1200	When I take the floor in this debate, it is related to the fact that for a number of years now I have been the case rapporteur for criminal justice. The training aspect is also an important part from that point of view. Prison sentences are, at least from the point of view of the Christian People's Party, for the first society's reaction to undesirable behaviour, and then it's society's organization for the rehabilitation of the criminal to a crime-free life. It means that there is an important period, perhaps the most important period, in a person's life when he or she first enters a prison because one has behind one behavior that society does not accept. We have quite clear measurements that very many of those in prison are people who, I don't like the term "failure," because I don't want to describe any people who failed, all people are really successful, have failed in society in such a way that they have been given the behavior that normal people practice. It is therefore important that when they come to prison they are not met with demands that they are unable to meet there either. That is why I am pleased that there is such a strong emphasis on the need for adapted training, because it is clear that the needs, assumptions and desires of the individual prisoners must be taken into account. It does not help to come up with anything that some wise heads have found out that it should be possible, or she should. We have to start with the people, and then we have to do this. I think that what has been signaled through the message, and also what the setting expresses, means well. I would like to underline what others here have said: it is important to have a relationship between what happens when a person is in prison and what happens when he is released and going into civil society. Then it is important to have a follow-up relationship with the school system that is established long before being released from prison, so that you are not released to uncertainty and questions, but that you are released to something you want to carry on, because it was so positive what you started in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1213	When Stortinget asked for a major report on prison training, a funding plan was also requested. This financial plan does not exist. We have to relate to reality. What has happened in the course of this Council of State period is that 320 new places have been created without a single penny of prison training. This is the situation we're in. In order for the message not just to be good words, you have to have funding with it. That is why we are proposing today that a financial plan be included in the 2006 budget. The director of FOKO, the forum for training in criminal matters, stated in the latest issue of FOKO news that it is easier to walk on water than to implement the decisions contained in the notification without money. It's true, it costs to carry this out. That is why SV has proposed earlier, and we are also proposing today that a financing plan be drawn up. I am also concerned about raising the socio-economic perspectives of rehabilitation and training. The Stortinget points in the setting that we are dealing with today, to the KrAmi project from Sweden. Here, Swedish criminal services have gone new ways in the follow-up work and in multidisciplinary cooperation. Swedish criminal services, social affairs and the employment service have merged on projects after a closed settlement that provides participants with a permanent job, which is one of the criteria they have. This gives good results. In Sweden, the result is that for every penny you add to this project, society gets back between 13 and 18 kroner. The majority point out that this is a correct and important project. We also point out that if the education sector is included in addition, there will be even greater and better consequences from this project. The majority want a larger project, like the KrAmi project in Sweden. I look forward to the State Council implementing this project as soon as possible. It is important to look at the socio-economic consequences of strengthening education and rehabilitation, as I said. An investment in prison training is a safe investment, which provides a safe return. It gives better prospects for a good life for the individual, and it gives a better and safer society for everyone. Therefore, it is important to focus on prison training. I am pleased with the message, but I am disappointed that the bulk of the population will not guarantee a more long-term and sustainable funding of prison training. Scattered attempts and good measurements do not last for long. In order for prisoners to be able to count on proper training provision in the future, funds need to be provided. With the decisions we are making today, and with the intentions in the big news, I look forward to the Government of the State budget for 2006. I would like to include the SV's proposal. I would also like to signal that we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the Progress Party, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1236	The representative Lena Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1239	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, I didn't realize that Lena Jensen was recording. I perceived it so that she just took up suggestion No. 4, and I would therefore like to address proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 1 is a proposal to ask the Government of the State budget for 2006 to submit a financing plan for prison training. That proposal will not have a majority. That is why I think we all deserve both the SV and the Workers' Party to support proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for state funding for training in criminal matters.’ Overall, we will at least achieve that we get a focus on funding. Alternatively, the working party group will support proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1253	The representative Eva M. Nielsen has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2588]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1271	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2588]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1291	Interpellanten, Vidar Bjørnstad, gets the floor – no, Rolf Reikvam is it. Then the right interpellant will have the word – Rolf Rekvam, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1294	Thank you, President! This isn't easy. Thank you for giving me the floor, anyway. In order to avoid any misunderstandings and to avoid that this could end up as a debate on formalities, I would first like to make it clear that I know that the plans that are now here are drafts and that they are out for consultation. I know it's the department that lays down curricula, and from my point of view this interpellation is not an attempt at big business. I also know that the curricula have not been adopted, that the Ministry will adopt them in the light of the answers given to them. So I also have to say that I haven't read all the drafts, let me clarify it. I've read a lot, and I'm dealing with the drafts that I've read. Let me also first specify that making and writing curricula is a difficult process. It's just awfully difficult to find the right terms, the right expressions and use the right language, because we know that language is difficult, and it's hard to convey such a message. So I fully understand that making curricula is a complicated and difficult thing. The background for the interpellation from my side is that the Storting gave leadership in the Innst. S. No 268 for 2003-2004 on Culture for learning. There we said a lot about the structure of the curricula, how the curricula should look – in general terms, well to notice. In the process we're in now, I guess it's going to be right that Storting is taking this opportunity to come up with views on what the Council of State is about to do. I want to quote some of what the Committee said about curricula, because it is important in this context – I quote from Innst. S. 268: ‘The Committee agrees that new curricula must be developed in all initial training courses. The curricula will consist of a clear description of the objectives of the subject. The new curricula must be simple, concrete and understandable for teachers, students and parents alike. The curricula shall set out clear objectives for the subject and be a useful and manageable tool for the teacher, as well as give the student the opportunity to measure their own professional progress. The curriculum must have objectives that include knowledge of facts and skills, as well as objectives for the development of analytical ability and the ability to reflect independently.The Committee believes that the basic skills should be integrated into the curricula of all subjects at the premises of each subject and at the relevant levels, as should general education.’ In addition, the Storting determined in connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No 268 that the general part of the curriculum is fixed. The first sentence of the general curriculum is as follows: ‘The aim of training is to equip children, young people and adults to meet the challenges of life and to master challenges with others.’ After the chapters with the titles of the mind-seeking man, the creative man, the working man, the general man, the cooperating man, and the environmentally conscious man, the general part of the curriculum ends up in a chapter entitled The Integrated Man. To me, there is a synthesis of the different objectives of the general curriculum. The general part of the curriculum ends with the following sentence: ‘The ultimate goal of training is to encourage individuals to realize themselves in ways that benefit the community — to foster humanity for a developing society’. With the Storting saying that the general part is fixed, the basic question becomes: is it possible to see the relationship between the general part as it is formulated and the proposed curricula as they are formulated? There's probably a thread, there's probably a connection, but it's not clear. It is not always easy to see the clear and clear relationship between the general part and the proposed technical syllabus. The size of the curriculum was clear on the need to build them up so that they can learn facts and skills as well as to develop students' ability to reflect and their analytical skills. For my own part, I can add, even if it wasn't in the setting: developing the students' ability to be critical, rehearsing the critical sense, and asking questions. It must be made visible in the curricula. More locations in Innst. S. No 268 we're writing about the school's education responsibility. To me, it's just the ability of reflection, analytical ability and being critical that is the formation. That's what's the point of the concept of formation. I do not feel confident that the proposals that are out now have managed to capture this in a good way. According to the Newspaper today, Professor Peder Haug – he was responsible for the evaluation of L97 – believes that the proposed plans are too poor, they are too general, they are too vague on targets, and they also lack an element of content. That's what he's saying, according to the Newspaper today, so I'm not saying it. All the proposed plans are built over the same train, after what Stortinget has said. It is the aim of the subject, it is structure and hour-sharing, it is the aim of competence, and it is assessment and evaluation. In that area, one has followed up. The school must have great freedom to organise the learning work. Even today, after today's curricula, the school has great freedom to organize the learning work. Many try to draw a picture of the school today where one does not have freedom, where it is the methodical leadership that governs education. It's a positive error. It's mildly hesitated to say that. There is full freedom within today's curricula to organize the learning work. So that's not the consideration that forces the need for new curricula. The criticism of today's curricula is that they're too extensive, that's too much teaching. We have agreed to this criticism. There is a need to reduce the amount of learning material. We've agreed to that. The curricula are and shall be the school's main management tool. The general part of the curriculum and the vocational syllabus shall be the document used and interpreted by pupils and teachers together. Based on their interpretation, they prepare training courses, with adapted training for each individual student. What we're doing now, and what we're talking about now, is the school's most important management document. Will the curricula that we are now in the process of getting this management tool be measured in relation to the general part of the curriculum? My claim is that it will not work. It won't be able to work as it is formulated. My criticism concerns several aspects. These include: the curriculums do not define common teaching as they should and as today's curriculums do. School is our common reference framework. It is extremely important that students around Norway, at different years of age, have been defined what should be common learning material, for example in Norwegian. It is important that the curriculum states that students should meet, for example, texts by Ibsen, Bjørnson or others — not exactly what particular texts, but it is important that the curriculum defines certain types of texts to be met by students, no matter where they are in school. The way in which one formulates the knowledge and skills objectives, in my opinion, goes crazy. Saying that the students should be able, we know we're creating problems. It's a problem to define what it means to be able to, and what does it mean to master. That kind of concept is hard to use in a curriculum, precisely because we have to define what's in the concepts. And then we know at the same time that many students probably will never be able to, because they don't have the prerequisites for that. So, at the end of the day, one of them adds up with evaluation, will come up with the instrumental – a strong emphasis on the traditional exam – as opposed to what the Stortinge said, namely that we should also try out new evaluation forms. There's nothing about it in the plans that I've seen. That's also really important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1357	In St.Message No. 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning, the Government proposed new framework and content for initial training. In this context, the government indicated that the school should contribute to education, social mastering and self-driving and provide students with opportunities to develop so that they can make reflected choices and influence their own future. The general part of the curriculum is based on a broad understanding of how people mature, know-how is built and skills are developed, and it sets out objectives for individual students and apprentices to acquire during the course of education. The general part of the curriculum is based on a value basis of which it is highly uplifted, and the Government therefore proposed that it be continued. The government also proposed a school poster — later, at the initiative of Stortingen, known as the educational poster — as an obliging framework for school and educational activities, for example. to develop and ensure the best possible learning environment and benefits for pupils and learners and to develop schools and apprenticeships for learning organisations. In addition, it was proposed that new curricula should be developed for subjects and that these should include professional skills objectives. The objectives were to be designed to enable students and apprentices to be evaluated in relation to them. It was suggested that the basic skills to be able to express themselves orally, to be able to read, to express themselves in writing, to be able to calculate and to use digital tools should be integrated into the curricula for subjects at different levels. In addition, it was stressed that considerable emphasis had to be placed on the diversity and personal development of pupils and learners, and that the subjects and work with them were to be the meeting place between basic skills and education. In the setting, an overall committee concluded that the general part of the curriculum should be continued in its current form. The majority also joined, with one addition, the Government's proposal for the Educational plaque. A joint committee stated that the curricula for subjects should include objectives for students’ competence after completion of training at different stages, and that the objectives should be designed in such a way as to allow for more than one route to the goal. The new curricula should be simple, concrete and understandable for teachers, students and parents alike. They should set clear objectives for the subject, be a useful and manageable tool for the teacher and give the student the opportunity to measure their own professional progress. The Committee stressed that the objectives would include knowledge of facts, skills and objectives for the development of analytical ability and ability to reflect independently. The basic skills were to be integrated into the curricula for all subjects at the premises of each subject and at the relevant levels. Of course, the curricula that are now being developed should be based on the assumptions made by the Storting through the treatment of the St. Report setting. No 30, Culture for learning. In this context, it is important to remember that the curricula for subjects are an integral part of the general curriculum and the educational plaque, and that all these three parts of the curriculum are exactly as binding on the schools and colleges. Since the educational plaque is also to be used for secondary education and not only for primary school, as was the case for the so-called Bridge, it can be claimed that this whole is becoming even more important than before. This has also been the focus of the Storting, and there is a basic premise in the discussion on the content of the school. Thus, it is very relevant to mention, for example, in relation to the questions raised by the representative, Mr Rikvam. Point 3 of the educational plaque, which says that the school and the apprenticeship must: ‘stimulate pupils and apprentices/teachers to develop their own learning strategies and critical thinking capabilities’. Point 4 says that the school and the educational community should: ‘stimulate students and apprentices/teachers in their personal development and identity, in developing ethical, social and cultural competence and capacity for democratic understanding and participation’. The Education Directorate is now in the final phase of its work on the curricula for subjects. It is, more specifically, in the process of summarising the consultation opinions on proposals for new curricula. There has been a great deal of interest in the hearing, and the directorate reports that they have received more than 2,500 opinions. It's not uncommon for a lot of commitment to such things, but we can't rule out that the commitment is now extra big, because we've chosen to facilitate a much more open process than before, among other things. by the fact that different draft curricula have been public at several stages of the process. In my view, both the debate and the consultation are crucial for the quality of curricula and good governance for the training and assessment of pupils both in primary and secondary education. I have been informed that in the current phase of the work, the Directorate also uses a number of professional resource personnel, who contribute to the evaluation of consultation opinions and views on changes that should be made on the basis of the consultation. The Directorate will submit its proposal for new curricula to the Department on one of the following days. These proposals will also be public. The work on evaluating the proposals and completing the curricula will then start immediately in the department, and I will also facilitate dialogue with relevant professional environments at that stage before the final curriculum is established. The representative of Rikvam asks me if I am satisfied with the drafts, and whether they meet the objectives of Stortinget. As we have seen from what I have already said, I have not taken a decision on the drafts. They have so far been the subject of a consultation process and the final proposal of the Directorate is not yet available. The division of responsibilities between the Department and the Directorate of Education is clear. Once the Directorate for Education has summarised, evaluated and made any changes to the curriculum drafts in the light of the consultation opinions and forwarded them to the Ministry, they shall be determined. The central question for me will then be whether the curricula respect the principles and considerations of the Storting. In the light of the above, it is not natural that I comment on the present drafts in more detail. However, I think it is right to make one further comment on Rikham's question, which contains a premise I cannot simply join. He believes that the drafts have a linguistic form that makes the curriculum objectives imperatives and that does not take into account the school's education objectives. I have already commented on this indirectly, by stressing that the curricula for subjects must and should be seen in the context of the entire curriculum, including the General Part and the educational poster. In addition, I believe that the representative Rikvam must have read the drafts a little like a certain man’s reading the Bible – although I now heard that he had not read all the drafts. In the term ‘elevens shall be able’, as he emphasizes, not only is the verb used as an imperative, but it also acts as a ‘modal aid’ verb. So it says, for example. Several places in the drafts that students should be able to participate in, explore, evaluate, develop, discuss, reflect, formulate questions, propose and justify – which is precisely the analytical capacity and ability of students to reflect, i.e. the school's education objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1399	First I register that the Council of State has not taken a decision, and I think that is good. This means that this debate can influence the process and affect the final outcome, so that this interpellant debate came at the right time, as part of the further process. So I would like to say that it would then only be lacking that a draft curriculum and the process leading to the curricula would not have the greatest possible publicity around them. In terms of the reason for relatively many now getting involved — and responding, in part — it should, as I said, just be lacking that one does not attract people, both teachers and others, into this process. With regard to the educational plaque and what I quoted from the Committee’s attitude – that the curriculum should also stimulate and develop the students’ ability to reflect and analyse – the curriculum went into concrete action. It didn't go on the learning poster at all. Although there is much under the slogans in the educational poster, the Committee’s point was that this should also be part of and visible in the various curricula. It's awfully important that it comes out. We also argued that we should make curricula that parents, students and teachers should be able to do well. Now parents, teachers and students have reacted. In a big look in the VG the other day there was an interview with the teacher organisations, the student organisation and the parental committee for primary school, with the title ‘Skole-Norway says stop’. They also have some of the same objections to the curriculum that I have. I think there are important objections, which should be heavy arguments against the further work of the Council of State. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will take inwards the strong reactions that are now coming, and that the curriculum will be expanded in such a way that they have some common teaching material, that the curriculums not only define some general objectives – some of them may be clear, and some are not so clear – but that, in addition, there are some common teaching materials and that it is evident from the curricula. Because we all, as a society, through the public school, on which most of us will have gone, need to have met some common learning material and have some common references. One of the most important things school does is to create common references. We need to make this visible through the various professional curricula.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1412	I agree that it is fine that it is as much publicity as possible. My point was just to say that it's the first time it happens that it's so public, and that you can't rule out that the exposure then has become something bigger. But that has been our intention. So this hasn't been the usual thing in the past. The representative Reikvam said here that his point is that reflection and analytical skills should be made visible not only in the educational poster or in the general section, but also in the curricula of subjects. I don't know if he heard what I said in my post. If he goes through the drafts – without me going good for them here and now – then not only could ‘should’ be used as an imperative, but also as a ‘modal aid’ verb. That means, for example, that is. The draft curricula for Norwegian, social and natural sciences — to name a few — state that students should be able to participate in, explore, evaluate, develop, discuss, reflect, formulate questions, propose and justify. This is precisely a call for critical thinking, analytical ability, ability to reflect – the school's education objectives, which are contained in the draft curricula for subjects. Then, of course, through the media, I have registered that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party will stop the process. Once a consultation process has been started, I believe it is much more natural to really hear those who have wanted to be heard. I'm waiting first for the directorate to go through the hearing opinions and promote a proposal to the department. Let's look at it. I think it is the only right thing to do when a consultation process has been initiated. But I have recorded that there are other parties that will stop this, based on the media debate and the consultation process that has been. So to common doctrine. I agree that it is important that a lot is common. But I have to admit that I think it's a bit surrealistic to hear it from SV, because it's been two years since SV went to the election on a program called 'A Free School for All', without having any private health schools of any special size, and without having free school choices. Then our arguments were that they had just left the idea that something should be common. You should do that at the top of the whole thing without a common division of courses and classes. It is very difficult to understand SV's school policy, but it may not be the purpose of this debate either.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1425	I'm going to give commendation to SV for giving us the opportunity to come up with views on the curriculum and the concerns we're recording. The Storting had a wide-ranging round of the curriculum in connection with the paper Culture for Learning. At least I myself need to review some of the points of view. The Committee agreed that the general part of the curriculum should continue and guide basic education, that focusing on skills should not reduce the school's work on ethics, social and cultural competence, and that skills should be an integral part of general education. The red-greens thought that the basic competence of the government proposal was too narrow. It should include learning about knowledge institution, learning strategy and social and cultural competences. However, these objectives of competence were put into the educational plaque, to which the Workers' Party subsidiaryly joined. However, it was clearly stated that these should be committed to the implementation of the training. Whether the curriculums were intended for the Committee to contain clear objectives of competence. They should be less comprehensive and detailed, providing opportunities for adaptation and local freedom of action towards the objective. They should include knowledge of facts as well as objectives for the development of analysis and ability to independently reflect, as both the inter-pellant and the Council of State were also concerned. Education should shape the entire curriculum. The proposal for new curricula has now been at the consultation stage and has met extensive objections from parents, students and teachers. Let me just mention someone related to different disciplines: The competence objectives are too vague.The content is not related to basic competence.The skills objectives have been defined, but the generalisation and ability to reflect have disappeared.Where is the relationship between the General Part, the educational plaque and the curricula?Why is there no common teaching material, for example: From our cultural point of view? This is part of the objection. These are also important objections to the views that I tried to echo from Stortinget's treatment of Culture for learning. My main concern is that criticism, objections and views must be taken seriously. Governments must not make speed more important than content. The school is too important to be characterized by urgent work and the achievement of the time of introduction, as a writer said in a newspaper. Speed is also an objection for those who are going to produce learning material and who should relate to the framework of the curriculum. Bad curricula give rise to the danger that it is not these, but the teaching material that governs school learning. Of course, we do not want to do that. My advice is this: Take the time necessary to ensure good curricula for the benefit of teachers, students and parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1465	I listened with interest to the main posts of the interpellant. I think he started pretty well, with a little analytical approach to the issues, drawing up the teacher's plans, reflecting on both the complexity of this work and how difficult it is to get it into a good way, not least by using our language. But when the interpellant came up to the great rhetorical heights, I thought he was able to find out in a good way that there are also large political dividing lines out and going. There are dividing lines in terms of knowledge, there are dividing lines in terms of political views, and there are not least dividing lines in relation to what to focus on in terms of school content. Now when the so-called red-green alliance goes out and says to postpone the curriculum work, and you have to make significant changes, then you have to make significant changes to something you don't know about. I trust that when the Department of the Council of State launches a comprehensive consultation process that has created a significant commitment and debate, which it is quite natural to get around this type of plan, and which it is desirable to get, the Department and the Council of State are also able to take into account and listen to the important and significant input, objections and consultation statements that may come into this process. I must then be allowed to suspect the representative of Reikvam and his red-green alliance that there are completely different things you are looking for than just postponing this process. The aim is to put political leadership at the level of the profession and to put political content into the curriculum. From my point of view, it is a far-reaching professional craftsmanship and a professional process that the good professionals we have at school can handle. There is no unknown case that SV has a different knowledge and emphasis than the Right stands for. This applies, inter alia, to: the relationship to basic skills, to basic skills. It may seem that SV does not have the ability to innovate all the results we have received from PISA, from TIMS, from the Learning Centre, and from national and international research, which shows the poor results for example. reading, billing and writing, which is now engaged in significant work to improve and which is also to permeate all the subject plans as a red thread. Nor is it an unknown matter that SV has a completely different vision, and a completely different application formulation. You're against exams, you're against national tests, and you're against having to have continuous competence in school, and you want to go back to a school that creates losers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1478	We live in a technological society. Ten years ago, a mobile phone cost NOK 30 000, and it was so heavy that you almost could not carry it. Today it's almost universal. The digital everyday life has come through us. It's right here, and it stays here. This is getting bigger and more important. The curricula are, as has been said before, one of the foremost tools to support the work of teachers. They are important and should be simple, so that both teachers and parents understand them. The draft curriculum currently available is somewhat forward-looking. The digital competence is not included in the objectives of competence at all levels, not related to the subject’s premises and not differentiated in relation to the stage. The size has decided that digital competence should be one of the basic skills, in line with literacy, and this does not follow up these proposals for curricula. In today’s draft consultation, digital competence is not well enough inside. If we don't invest in ICT and technology, we're going to get involved. I'm afraid that if you don't get digital skills much stronger, you'll get serious variations in schools, teachers and how much digital competence each student will have. This will result in a digital class division. I believe it is important to ensure that all schools and all students have this basic competence. The council says she will be done with the new curriculum on June 23, but she says today that she has not taken a stand and does not have the full overview of what is in these curricula. These curricula are far too important, both for parents, for teachers and for the Norwegian school as a whole, so that urgent work can be done on it. So I think it's important to get a new review and a new discussion of these plans. And, as I said, technology has to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1492	Learning and development is a complex process and is proceeding differently for the students," says Rolf Rikvam, and I fully agree with that. But then to conclude that you can't say that the students should be able to do something, must be a short cut. I have to remember what our committee said a year ago: ‘The Committee considers that both general education and the mastering of skills are essential for working, social and private life. The school shall develop the whole human being through work on values, ethics and culture. The Committee considers that the basic skills are not contrary to, and should not be at the expense of, the general education.» So this is to be seen in the curriculum, and I believe that the ministry takes these considerations and uses the time needed to get this done in a good way. Many recordings have been made through the hearings that are now to be reviewed, and I expect that these will also be taken into account. The Christian People's Party will have an equivalent school with adapted training for all. That's why we're clarifying, just as the Council of State did, that both the General, the Educational Plaque and the curriculum are equally committed. In general, it is to be continued, and it says that the upbringing should be based on fundamental Christian and humanistic values. Through the new reform, we will make a good school better, where the main priority is the lifting of competences for teachers. Then it's important to have clear learning goals. For the Christian People's Party, the role of the school consists of two equally important elements, both ‘form’ and ‘educate’, and they are equivalent and interdependent. Alfred Oftedal Telhaug has said that the students cannot evolve as independent and creative people without the laborious work of acquiring knowledge and skills. Learning and skill objectives shall not be at the expense of the role of the contractor. The education system shall be the subject of the curriculum and shall be the subject of continuous training. The school shall contribute to the overall competence of the students. This is why the interaction between the educational and educational role of the school is important. When we read in the VG that someone misses an emphasis on students becoming useful people, and that the curriculum, it says, is a competitive method, some houses have obviously passed the point of purpose, and that the so-called Bridge has been lifted and replaced by the learning poster. The Committee does not say anything about a particular method, precisely because we believe that the teachers, who are professionals, know best which method to use in the various challenges of training. Why is this race that has now been laid, suddenly become so irresponsible? It's clearly in St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning, page 116, the introduction of new curricula from 2006. The plan was set up one year ago by the Church, Education and Research Committee, and is still one year away. We are pleased with the open process, so that many have been able to engage. It would have been worse if we hadn't heard a sound. It is therefore reassuring that the Council of State has reaffirmed today that she will, of course, observe the principles laid down by the Storting and on which it is a unanimous comitology.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1512	Sometimes the Stortinget doesn't mean it's the place to discuss the new curriculum. When the representative in this interview takes up this theme, it is among other things. because there are many questions about the curricula that are currently being developed are in line with the Storting decision in the context of the setting up of Culture for learning. In fact, it is important to know whether there is a good connection between the general curriculum and the new curriculums for subjects, and whether the new curriculums are a good starting point for quality improvement in schools. The centre party believes that the breadth of the field of competence must be clearly expressed in the curriculum of the subject. The aim of competence shall demonstrate both knowledge objectives, skills objectives and retention objectives. The learning plans, which should be a management tool for both learners, students and students, must have clear content elements that guide learning. Then, for example, alarmingly, the draft consultation is as central a subject as mathematics, speech understanding and numbers are building up away from childhood, and the calculation of area and volume is not included in the youth competence objectives. After the opinion of the Centre Party, the curricula shall be consistent, national governance tools, which at the same time allow the teacher to master the professional space for action. When central actors in Skule-Noreg, such as the Parental Committee for Primary School, the Student Organisation and the Education Association, come out with strong criticism of the proposals for new curricula, it is actually important to listen. It is important for the Storting, which has taken the decisions that form the basis, but it is also important for the Ministry; it is those who finally make the final decision. So I think it's worth reminding me that this is where we're going to make good-quality teaching materials, and the textbooks are going to be on both sides of the scale at the same time. Then it is important that there is security for the curriculum to bear the goal of the Stortinget in terms of quality improvement in primary and secondary schools. I'm recording that Right takes this as a rematch. We're totally incomprehensible about that. In fact, it is decisive that there is security among central actors, whether we talk about those who are going to teach, or we talk about parents/advices or the students themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1525	This is an important area to discuss, sail if I think the main issue in this debate was actually decided a year ago. But I realize that being a populist is a pain in the ass and should jump every time some people buzz – whether it's about national tests, or whether it's about curriculums. I think it's very important that there's a pruning among people. I think it is important that it is a debate. I think that both the professional environments, the teachers, all the school environments are well off of the debate that is now going on, and our task is not necessarily to jump, but to listen. There are two things I want to comment on in relation to the debate. That's the term "shall be able" – it's awfully scary that we have to make such demands for the students! I also think that there can be a debate on how much 'position' we should put into curricula. I actually think there's a limit to how much attitudes the state should decide to put into the students' heads. In fact, I believe that there is an ideologically interesting discussion about whether attitudes should be something we should communicate through this, or whether we should actually disseminate knowledge that provides the basis for analysis, the basis for debate participation, the basis for our own analysis. There is a limit to how much attitudes a society can demand to enter a state school in the context of child training. I think it's as interesting a debate as the fear of the term'should be able'. The second thing I think some of the curricula might not be good enough is evaluation criteria. Having clear evaluation criteria for students is an important part of what curricula should contain. Our starting point when it was going to be new was that it was almost impossible for teachers to live up to those who were there in all their diversity. Clearly, as a politician, you can easily create a curriculum with so much diversity that you can never be attacked, but whether they are feasible with the students is an interesting issue. First of all, I think that the curriculum should be so simple that they can also be in the parents ’ bookshelf. For my mother, when she knew that we were going in the class where we were going to learn the multiplication tables, it meant multiplication tables pugging while you were on the berry tour and picking blueberries. The fact that parents can participate in children's education and know what's coming when, and what's really expected of their children, I think can be a strength for the whole school. Then the curricula must be in such a form that others, not only the teachers, can relate to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1540	I would like to address in particular a matter of concern to the interpellant. The representative Reikvam believes that there is a high risk that curriculum objectives and clarity regarding what students are expected to be able to achieve conflict with school education objectives. It seems that the Socialist Left Party has a great interest in creating an artificial contrast between formation and knowledge. They believe that there is no focus on knowledge and learning outcomes, because then the education process stops. But reality is the opposite: without knowledge and skills no formation. What is education? Well, we often think of education as the ability to acquire culture, to engage in thought, critical reflection and to function in a society. In short, formation is the idea of the whole human being. This is where the construction of an artificial contrast between knowledge and formation is completely incomprehensible. For how to acquire cultural experiences, such as: Good books if you can't read? How does anyone feel that it is possible to share in great things in the past and present if you cannot read properly? How does one work in society without knowledge of the writing language? I think it's a setback to the education process for young people if you don't focus on knowledge. When the government is busy doing something about the fact that as many as 17 pst. of the tenth grade can't read and write well enough, it's precisely because this inability to read creates barriers for young people in their lives. Many people have problems getting a job, many cannot continue to study. From the Socialist Left Party, the signal is that it is more important that the students have it socially and comfortably than that they learn so much. They wrap themselves up in a notion that students who learn little but thrive a lot are formed into whole people. Students can learn and thrive at the same time – there is no difference. When the school makes demands on the students, it is both for them to acquire knowledge and for them to be formed into whole people. Knowledge opens paths to formation that would otherwise have been closed. The representative Reikvam reveals in an interview on education.ws 30 May what is SV's business here. The journalist asks Reikvam if he fears that the new curricula will lead to a doggy school. Rikvam answers: ‘To put it simply, we can get a school where it’s important to be able to multiply the tables.’ This is a risk that governments are more than willing to take on. It's not the doggy school that's the goal, for example. with the national tests in reading and writing skills. It's the acquisition of knowledge, and it's the opening of paths to formation that would otherwise have been closed. And it's the removal of those barriers that lack of knowledge leads to for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1560	The interpellant shall be praised in order to focus on the coherence between the General curriculum, the educational plaque and the curricula. There is an important context, and there should be coherence between them. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important and right now to focus on learning goals, simply because a bit of the criticism of L97 was that the learning goals were too unclear. We also want to place greater emphasis on educational freedom in relation to how to achieve the objectives, and therefore also replace the bridge with the learning poster. In addition to unclear learning goals, the criticism of the L97 was that the subject plans were overread with substance. I agree with the interpellant when he says that school is important to create common references in our society. Therefore, the school must provide insight into cultural heritage in different areas and of different kinds. It will provide skills and knowledge for the future in which people recognize themselves, so that they can create contacts and cooperate. This is also the main reason why we want a common CRL in school as an example within the disciplines. In the Christian People's Party, we are not afraid of local variation if it creates a committed and relevant learning situation, because it helps to increase the learning capacity, and it also increases children's knowledge. When the Christian People's Party wants a new learning plan, it's because we want to base the general curriculum and get clearer learning goals, focus on basic skills and less substance than in the L97 curriculum. I think we have good teachers who are able to make good judgements in a variety of subjects to achieve the learning goals. I must honestly admit that I am surprised that some teachers in the public debate that I have seen about the curricula express that they do not want this freedom, because they are afraid that they do not know what to teach. The challenge now in the interview is that we need to be able to balance learning objectives and take into account the degree of detail of objectives and common material. There are two ditches in this debate, and the work of the Council of State is to avoid both. We have now created expectations for a new curriculum in 2006. Schools plan on that basis. They also need time to get into a new learning plan and plan their teaching. I believe that we can still do this, and it is unfortunate if it is now signaled that we should postpone it. I agree with the Council of State that we should not postpone, but we should listen to the hearings.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1575	I had hoped that one would not be able to serve the traditional Young Right rhetoric in this debate, for the matter is really too important for that. SV goes in for us to have knowledge goals. We need to learn that we need clear knowledge goals. And in relation to what the Council of State said, when we said that there should be greater freedom for each school to organize and get to adapted training, it just assumed that we should have a clear curriculum. We were going to have clear curriculum objectives, we were going to have curriculums that made clear what the students were going to learn, and then we said: within this system there has to be more freedom to organize. In these curricula, a concrete suggestion is that all students should have a certain number of hours. That was the part that we were concerned with, it was not the curriculum and the curriculum objectives at all, that they should be clear and clear. So when that kind of rhetoric comes up again and again, I want to say once again that we're going to have clear and clear curriculums, that make knowledge goals visible, but that also includes the second piece, that's what goes on the education ideal, that one should show it in the curriculum and be able to draw the lines between the general part and the curricula. That's what I was about, and that's why I think one could have saved us for the Young Right rhetoric that went on knowledge – it's up and up again. When the curriculum so little defines common doctrine, it's clear that someone has to define it. Then the question is, who takes that role eventually? There is reason to believe that it will be the textbook writers, or there may be others who take that role, go in and define some common doctrine. I think it's much more important that the curricula define the common material that students in the different schools will meet. So a little bit in the end about evaluation: the curricula have not captured any of the things that the Committee was concerned about in relation to the participation and development of new forms of evaluation. When we underline so strongly over and over again what is going on in individualised training, we also need to be able to develop new forms of evaluation. These curricula provide for final evaluation, examination and national tests, that this is what will be governing in many ways. There's good reason to believe that the textbook and the national tests are going to define what is going to be common stuff, and no longer the curriculum. That gives cause for concern, and it should take more people inwards. So finally what goes on basic knowledge: how many times are we going to hear this? SV accepted for these five basic skills, that they would permeate all the curricula. Those who remember well and well half a year back, remember that. In addition, we said there should be two basic competences: cultural competence and social competence. So now I had hoped that we wouldn't hear this. We went in for that, and most of us should remember that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1586	In conclusion, just a few things: First to teaching materials, such as: The representative from Bjørnstad took up his duties. Personally, I've been of that opinion all along, and I've expressed it, that there's no need for all new learning materials to be available from day one. I do not believe that the Norwegian subject has changed even though the curriculum has changed, in order to use such an expression, and I think it is paradoxical that in the debate – and this is not the representative of Bjørnstad – who is so afraid that the textbook should rule, at the same time is concerned that there must be new textbooks from the day one. I believe that there may be something more gradual – just so it is said. The second thing I want to say is that I'm very concerned about competence development. It is demanding to introduce new curricula, of course, and it is very important that it is accompanied by extensive development of competences. So I would also stress that, because it's also about understanding the new curricula and getting them under the skin, and understanding how they're going to be used. So I would say, not to defend the Young Right, but the representative to whom I assume it is meant, namely Ine Marie Eriksen – which is still young, we have to admit – that I have not once registered that the representative Rikham has mentioned that SV has a completely different knowledge view, as it was said, than the Government, and that therefore there is a need for a settlement with the government's school policy. So that's the way it's going to be. But then finally: I will listen very carefully to the criticism and hearing statements that have come. But listening means not just registering that it's a criticism, but you have to think carefully about what the criticism is. Because then it's not as simple as you might get from the media debate. Let me give you a few examples: there are many who are positive, including the drafts that exist, so many that schools in over 80 municipalities would like to start on the basis of what they have seen now, the year before. Secondly, there will be some criticism that no one can follow unless the students go to school around seven days a week, because there will be professional environments that want their subject to have so much space in school, that you will learn so much that it is not possible to comply with it. But if you listen carefully, you will also hear that part of the criticism is contradictory, and that has actually been the case in this debate. The center part wants more objectives and weight in the math plan, while SV is afraid that there will be too much multiplication tables, which again might be said to be opposite to not having given enough emphasis to digital skills. So how do you get this with digital skills without multiplication tables, and how do you get more measure and weight without even paying attention to it? So there are sometimes conflicting desires in relation to the curriculum, and you have to listen very carefully to hear that, because of course you can't fulfill all the conflicting desires. In the end, I just want to say something in relation to the statement in the newspaper today that it has been shown that we are driving and copying something Sweden already believes has failed. I'll argue with you. What they're doing there is putting more emphasis on reading, writing and billing, if politicians decide to adopt what the school is doing, and they want more clear goals, i.e.: not two levels of objectives, both process objectives and competence objectives, but only competence objectives. That's what we add up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1601	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1607	Then we're ready to go to voting. As previously adopted, the defence minister's statement on case No. 1 will be sent for treatment in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1617	During the debate Bjørn Hernæs has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:69 [[2004-2005]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1654	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1662	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eva M. Nielsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and Mr Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4, from Lena Jensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government in the 2006 government budget to set aside funds for a large, multi-disciplinary, multi-disciplinary project involving criminal, social, employment and school services. The participants in the project shall be provided with permanent work and shall receive close follow-up during their leisure time.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1689	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on the organisation of overall action against convicted offenders in a model in which the Ministry of Justice is given overall responsibility.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1704	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the budget for 2006 requires the Government to provide a financing plan for prison training that ensures predictable framework conditions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1719	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for state funding for training in criminal matters.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will now support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1762	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-02.ana.ud2080e1773	There is no record.
