ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e74	This is an attitude of the control and the Constitutional Committee which is concerned with the annual report to the Stortingen Scrutiny Committee for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service, what we call the EOS Committee. Here, the development of communication and the development of channels and information systems has once again been at the heart of the work carried out by this sample in 2004. Developments in these areas are rapid, and this places great demands on the control authorities. However, it now appears that this works well, which must also be added that the sample itself is very conscious of these challenges, and that the control work is still characterised by transparency and constructive cooperation between the EOS Committee and the controlled services. In its report to Stortinget, the committee states: ‘There have been no problems in the relationship with any of the services. It is assessed by the sample that services today have a constructive approach to control throughout. This is characterised by a professional suspension and by the fact that the services consider it to be in their own interest to provide the sample with information on matters that may be of controllable relevance.» This should be very satisfied with and, in order to be a little more formal, perhaps also a little proud of. Because it is not that these secret services, as we call it, around the world act in the way that Norwegians do, not even in the most well-developed democracies. This strengthens these services, and it strengthens our ability and our willingness to ensure that these services have the resources and access to the methods to perform the difficult and very important tasks that these services have. We can then also look at a case that comes to treatment here in the Chamber if not for a very long time, that in Norway, as in a number of other countries, it is considered that providing some of the EOS services with the opportunity to use more in-depth methods of prevention. If this happens, there will be additional requirements for the control of services and there will be reason to believe that there will be a need to strengthen our control body in this respect. In 2004, the EOS Committee received a total of 17 complaints addressed to the services, which is a decrease from 22 complaints in 2003. In addition, the sample itself has opened seven cases. None of the cases that the sample has completed in 2004 provided a basis for criticism of some of the EOS services. Over the years it has existed, the EOS Committee has developed methods for its work that seem to work very well. The annual reports to Stortinget provide us with the necessary insight into these services. Finally, the Committee's recommendation is expressed in two Roman Numeral Decisions, where the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party are behind the first one alone. The Minister of Justice, in a letter to the Organisation against political surveillance on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, has complained about those who were previously under illegitimately monitored. The entire committee feels that this complaint was a timely, correct and wise action by the Minister of Justice. The fact that the Committee now shares the view as to whether the Storting should also express a similar complaint by means of a decision is due to different formal approaches. The minority in the committee, which is a majority here in the Chamber, understands that the Minister of Justice is the right body on behalf of society to express such a complaint, while the majority in the committee, which then becomes a minority here in the Chamber, sees it as important to those affected by such an incorrect monitoring that the majority, as the legislator and in this context not least the controlling authority, express their regret.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e101	I am not going to repeat everything the case rapporteur said in his post, but I will only bring out one thing and also be involved in stressing another. We had a case in the period this report is about, which was about the monitoring of foreign students, where the impression is left after reading the EOS Committee's annual report, was that there was never any intention on the part of the PST to contribute to the stigmatisation of foreign students as a group, but that the procedure you first chose might have that effect. We are pleased that the PST here took the signals that came, and chose to handle this matter as they did. They have given a clear signal to the sample that in the future they will deal with these kinds of issues in such a way as to avoid stigmatizing foreign students as a group. It's very positive that the PST is able to take signals from the community around them in the way that at least I have the impression of it happened in this case. Then I would like to be able to underline what the case rapporteur also said, that we from the Stockholm pulpit want to express a complaint to those people who have been previously illegally monitored by the police surveillance service, as it was revealed by the Lund Commission. The size as a controlling authority also has a responsibility for what happens, what kind of practice we allow to develop in society. I don't think what happened to political surveillance was something that was completely different from that of Storting. Although there was never an expressed wish in this room to break laws or anything like that, it is reasonable to assume that there was some sort of common political understanding associated with some of the choices made at that time. The size must also take part in the responsibility for someone then being unduly monitored, and we believe that Stortinget can be a part of regretting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e110	The centre party is not represented in the control committee and has therefore not taken part in the examination of this matter. However, we have some comments relating to the setting that is currently being discussed in Stortinget. Firstly, we note that there is a great deal of agreement on most aspects of the annual report from the EOS Committee. The EOS Committee is in many ways a result of the examination of the Lund Commission report in the 1990s. The examination of the Lund Commission's report contributed to the absolutely necessary clearing and venting of a chateaux in recent Norwegian history, namely the illegal and unjust surveillance of Norwegian citizens. The setting refers to the fact that a whole of 228 cases have resulted so far in replacements due to illegal surveillance. From that point of view, I would like to stress on the part of the Centre Party that we are joining in on the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party that the Storting should also complain about the people who have been illegally monitored by the police surveillance service. I find it right and reasonable and reasonable that the Minister of Justice has lamented the situation on behalf of all of us, but I also think it is appropriate that the parties on the Stortinget contribute to the same regret by means of a decision taken by the magnificence. I think it's a bit remarkable that a total mass cannot support such a proposal, and I'm particularly surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left are unable to contribute to that kind of regret.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e124	I would like to point out, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, that today's EOS selection was created, among other things. as a follow-up to the conclusions of the Lund Commission, on which the case spokesperson was also concerned. The Commission examines allegations of illegal surveillance of Norwegian citizens after 1945. The Commission’s report concluded that illegal monitoring had occurred. However, the Commission’s mandate was not to conclude on individual cases. The Lund Commission was appointed to give human beings who thought they had been victims of illegal political surveillance, transparency of any folders. The creation of an EOS selection was a natural consequence of this, but it did not result in any direct public cause compared to those who had been illegally monitored by the state. The offer had too many people a significant defect. A group of the illegally supervised founders of the OPO, the Organisation against Political Monitoring, with the primary aim of working for upliftment and apology from the political authorities. In the examination of the EOS Selection report, it may therefore be appropriate to refer to Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum. In a letter to the organisation OPO he wrote, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘On behalf of the Ministry’ – as the police security officer – ‘I would like to express my regret to those who have previously been illegally supervised by the police surveillance service.’ However, it is for those who are in debt, a desire to hear this from the Storting's pulpit. It's also natural for us to distance ourselves from unfair surveillance. The Christian People's Party therefore refers to the Minister of Justice's question and will likewise express a cause to those who were unjustly subjected to surveillance. But the Christian People's Party does not naturally find it to have a decision on the matter. By its very nature, a cause is not a decree.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e138	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2322]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e154	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e163	The case concerns proposals to extend the disaster preparedness action programme by two years, until the end of 2006. Norway has participated in the EU disaster response action programme since its establishment in 1998. The aim of the programme is to help reduce risks and damage to people, the environment and property both locally, regionally and centrally. This is entirely in line with the areas of Norwegian emergency response. During this ageing period, we have addressed two major social security messages. In this context, the Defence Committee also points to the vision of a safe and robust society that averts threats and overcomes crises – or to use the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness’s own slogan: a secure and robust society where everyone takes responsibility. Society must be prepared to deal with serious incidents. Here we can both contribute and learn from other countries. In addition, natural disasters, similar to the floods that hit Central Europe in 1998 and 1999, and not least the tragedy of the Southern Asian river wave in Christmas 2004, show the need for close and international cooperation and mutual assistance both through established organisations and through bilateral agreements. Neither terrorist attacks nor natural disasters take into account national borders. International cooperation on social security and civil protection is therefore in everyone's interest. Key objectives of social security work are: that Norway is to be perceived as a social security and safe country to live and work in order to actively contribute within international organisations and through international activities, thereby indirectly strengthening the national social security work on social security should be a high priority and that organisational responsibility should reflect this Norwegian participation in the extension of the action programme entails an obligation for appropriations over two years, i.e. for 2005 and 2006, amounting to approximately NOK 680000. The consent of the majority is therefore necessary. It is a unanimous defence committee behind the comments and the recommendation for a decision. The members of the Foreign Affairs Committee have joined the position and comments of the Defence Committee and have no further comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e192	Norway has been participating in the EU disaster response action programme since the establishment of the programme in 1998. St. pp. No 45 for 1999-2000 confirms Norway's participation in the programme until 2004. This action programme expired on 31 December 2004. The currently pending staging proposal extends the action programme by two years, without changing the content of the programme. The aim of the Programme is to strengthen European cooperation in the field of disaster response and to contribute to the reduction of risks and damage to people, the environment and property. This is in line with the bet areas presented in St.meld. No 39 for 2003-2004 and St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002. Participation in the programme gives Norway the opportunity to exchange international information, and the relevant professional community will have the opportunity to develop activities of excellence under the Programme. The EU is now working on a broad evaluation of civil disaster preparedness work and reviews the action programme, the civil crisis management coordination mechanism and maritime pollution cooperation. This may end with a new instrument within this field for the period 2007-2013. Significant events inside and outside the EU in recent years have also shown that the action programme is still of value and should be continued. It is the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness that finances Norwegian participation in the Programme and the amount is covered within existing budgetary frameworks. Participation in the Programme does not have any significant administrative implications, nor does it require changes to laws or regulations. The decision of the EEA Committee will be taken in June 2005 and, with the prior consent of the Stortingen, the constitutional requirements laid down in Article 103 of the EEA Agreement will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e207	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2323]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e223	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e232	This case concerns the report from the Defence Ombudsman’s office for 2004, and it shows us an activity where the number of complaints procedures remains stable and where the degree of compliance is also stable. This is good at a time when the employees of the Defence Force are experiencing a strong change in their working life. The position of the Defence Committee is largely unanimous this year, as it has been in recent years. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the years I have been the case rapporteur for this matter. It is not only in the media that the economic conditions of the defence took effect in 2004. A comprehensive theme during the 2004 Ombudsman survey has been the economic/accounting procedures of the Defence Agency, which appear to function unsatisfactory in a number of areas. In meetings with trustees from the organisations of the command and civil servants, late and non-payment of wages, supplements, holiday pay, travel bills, etc. have been highlighted. In meetings with soldiers elected to trust, there were examples of soldiers waiting a long time for daily allowances, travel expenses, etc. mentioned, as well as late payment of housing aid. This is serious, especially when relatives suffer from unsatisfactory payment procedures. It creates a picture of the Defense that no one wants. The Committee has made it clear in its comments that procedures need to be improved in order to avoid this in the future. In the context of the defence economy, I would also like to refer to other matters that the Defence Committee is now dealing with, among other things. St.meld. No 29 for 2004-2005, where the additional consumption for 2004 is affected, and for the treatment of the Control and Constitutional Committee earlier this year of Document No. 1 for 2004-2005, which strongly criticised the fact that the defence failed to obtain approval of its accounts for 2003. It is essential that the order of trust in the defence works well. However, it has been difficult to get a full overview of what is happening in this scheme for 2004, due to a lack of reporting of meetings. I would like to point out that the Committee is now asking for action to be taken, so that this can be re-established. A majority of the committee – all with the exception of the Progress Party – has also stated that trust course should be given priority over exercises, and this is what we ask the Ministry to underline to the Defence Military Organisation. The reorganisation of defence should not result in a weakening of the welfare of soldiers, and the high standard on the social side must be maintained. It is essential that efforts be made to ensure a more systematic recruitment and appointment of welfare officers, with a view to improving welfare services. Adult training is of great importance to soldiers, and it is also essential that close cooperation with civil labour authorities is established, with a view to reducing the number of soldiers who are graduated from unemployment. The Ombudsman has been concerned in his report for 2004 that adult training should be available as earmarked central resources and that, with the current budgetary framework, it seems difficult to maintain the adult training offer to non-compulsory personnel serving initial services. The Committee supports the central designation of adult education resources and calls for this approach to be introduced from the next financial year. The Committee also refers to comments in Innst. S. No 221 for 2003-2004, which reads as follows: ‘The Committee shares the view that adult education in the Defence shall, among other things, compensate for the loss of education and practice resulting from statutory initial service and that adult education in the Defence should be maintained at a level that continues to ensure that the VO offer is perceived as a real compensation for the year of the initial service. [[VO]] The Committee would point out that the RD should enhance the civil competence of vulnerable crews, trainees and contract officers and that the offer should be meaningful for all these groups.’;» The Committee has taken note of the Ombudsman’s recommendations on national outpatient military medicine and the need for long-term treatment of people outside the country. The Committee points out that treatment arrangements need to be developed for people in their home districts. I will end by pointing out that reporting on the disciplinary situation in 2004 has been deficient, and that we are now asking for action to be taken to improve this situation. Temporary shortages in some military departments are a recurring problem. It is a matter that we have been dealing with in this area for years, and we ask again that action be taken to reduce this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e261	As usual, a concrete and good communication is provided by the Ombudsman. The obligation to protect is and will well be a support bar for the Norwegian defence for a few years. To a greater extent, it is through the protection obligation that the defence recruits ratings to its professional departments, to foreign missions and to command training. While we see that the duty of protection is a foundation for the defence, we also know that from this year on, under 10,000 young men and women perform first-time service. So, in my time in the Defence Committee, we have witnessed that a smaller percentage of young people carry out the duty of protection. I still think it is and has been a proper development, because it is the defence needs that must be decisive for how many are admitted to service. When evolution has become so that it's far less than 50 pst., yes, it's probably less than 40 pst. So 18-19 pst. Of the total youth population — who are serving the duty of protection — there is a correct development in the light of the needs of the defence. It is important that those implementing the initial service feel that they are getting something for it. That's why I've been happy to witness that the state-of-the-art measures for guardians have come to be. But this is not over yet, although the dispensation allowance has greatly increased in recent years and the possibility of varied and flexible education during the service is now in place. Most policy-makers are well aware that the pension system is changing. At least this has been brought to the attention of the trustees in the Defence, and the reason is that the guardians will lose a year's service if a so-called annual rule is introduced, which provides service for all years in the labour force. The loss occurs for guardians who spend one year serving their country, compared to those who do not do first-time service and who can make money. I am therefore pleased to say that the Workers' Party has agreed to provide the first-time service, even though the details are not yet clear, to provide a pension payment. I see this as a political step in the right direction, and a direction that involves several status-enforcement measures for the implementation of the protection obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e272	The defense's report on the business for 2004 is interesting reading, which tells a lot about what's going on in the defense – of what's good, and of what's less good. Fortunately, most of it works very well, but of course, much can be done better no matter what position and degree. If we are to have a good and well-functioning defense, we must have good, well-trained and, not least, motivated soldiers and commanders, and so on, this report is important. However, it seems that there is still some lack of flexibility in the defence, for example. Adds exercises and courses to the same time – but when said, exercises must of course go ahead of course. Otherwise, it is important to note that the Committee believes that a reorganization of the defence should not result in a weakening of the well-being of the soldiers. It's also important to notice that 11.4 pst. The soldiers say that they have experienced situations in which they have feared for their own lives. We have to take this seriously. A good, well-functioning defense cannot have soldiers/commands who are marked by such events. Otherwise we have to take more seriously the damage our soldiers get, and may get, after they have come back from international operations. I'm afraid here we can get a lot of serious problems if we don't take this seriously. I'm not saying we don't, but I think a lot has to be done. Then it might not be right to remove such a good offer that you had on Berea on Kongsvinger. Meeting places where you can find your comrades and feel calm and get treatment, if desired, must be found. When Norway wants to participate in so much outside the world, and bets on this, one must also agree to spend money on its soldiers and their families when they come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e285	In a situation where the positive mention of the defence is not on the agenda daily, it is nice to be able to deal with the current position, where a virtually unanimous defence committee in all essential areas expresses satisfaction by the way in which the defence is operated. It is said, most often in celebrations, that the most important resource in any organisation is the employees. What can be perceived as a floss involves a deep truth. Then the question is, who is the best person to judge whether the business is conducted according to high-level criteria? I would assume that it will be the employees themselves, who have the shoe on and know best the pressure in both a positive and a negative direction. In this context, I think it is particularly pleasant that the elected trustees of the Defense have expressed a positive opinion about the service and the contents of the Service, and that the investigation among the soldiers shows that the trustee apparatus here is being expressed on behalf of the large, large majority of the soldiers. A number of state-of-the-art measures have been taken to ensure that there are just so many of us — I believe all of us — who believe that serving one year's service to the country of origin is not just a burden, but, on the contrary, may be of the most important content and lessons that soldiers later take with them into working life. I'm very happy to be able to establish that essentially these opinions are shared by the guardians themselves. The fact that we have received the concrete lifting of the dispensation allowance that is beginning to approach what the Defence Ombudsman has long asked for is one side of the matter, perhaps not even the most important – it is even more important that we get a service that is so meaningful that it can later be a good criterion for the further professional career after the service has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e294	The Ombudsman’s report reviews areas that are important for defence and gives an opportunity to say a little more about some issues. The invalidated home of Bæria has been taken over from 1 January 2005 by the National Association of Heart and Pulmonary Disease and the official opening of the Bæria Centre will take place on 25 May. At the request of the donors, LHL shall continue to drive Bæria in the same spirit and, as the need arises, fill the site with other activities. The war disabled association has made a great effort to drive Bærea as a place of recreation for war pensioners for nearly 50 years. There has been a place to meet like-mindedly from the different sides of Norway's struggle for freedom, a place to gather Norwegian war pensioners into social gatherings and recreation from a bit of a difficult everyday life. Bæria has acted and will continue to serve as a worthy memorial of Norwegian war invalids from World War II. It may also be mentioned that UN and NATO veterans may continue to conclude agreements on the use of the Bæria Centre. Nemda has registered that the defense has never had a better selection of people going out in foreign service than now. The quality of the equipment has also never been better. But the Christian People's Party agrees that it is now important to focus on what happens when the soldiers come back. The EESC points out that the problem of sensitising should be assessed across departmental departments and large-scale committees. It's an important reminder, because it's like the defense they're sent out in international operations, after decisions in government and big business. It is also positive that the views of the denominator have been incorporated into the final regulation on medical follow-up after returning to Norway. I quote: ‘The defence is responsible for ensuring that personnel suffering physical or mental damage as a result of serving in international operations receive the necessary follow-up in the civil health system after returning to Norway. This responsibility includes, inter alia, showing staff in the facilities of civil health services and assisting the person and civil health services concerned in areas where the defence has special competence. The responsibility for the medical follow-up shall apply regardless of whether the personnel still have an add-on relationship to the Defence.’» The Christian People's Party will clarify that because the new outpatient clinic will not have a practical opportunity to provide long-term treatment to people throughout the country, it will be an important task to develop treatment facilities that can be provided in the individual's district. It is equally important to have the necessary contact and dialogue to assist with the Special Competence of Defence and to train local health services. The Christian People's Party agrees that, as far as possible, efforts should be made to help the defense's own psychologists and psychiatrists in each part of the country. The organisation of UN and NATO veterans reports a sharp increase in the number of members. The scheme of peer support and someone to call is also an important offer – and a good help for many. Adult training in Defence is almost 50 years old, and it is important that the offer continues to be seen as a real compensation for the year in which the initial service is served and as a state-of-the-art measure. Christian People's Party will clarify that Adult Education should not focus solely on weights, exams and certificates. It is still important to bet on helping people with reading and writing difficulties. The defense has been a new beginning in life for too many people, by being understood, properly diagnosed and helped with their writing language challenges. I think it's most neat to bring together the local administration of education services for both guardians, recruiters, contract and departmental officers and, if necessary, other employees in the Defence Department. However, it suggests that more money should be spent and that the number of people under protection is not what you provide resources for. In addition to earmarking funds for adult training, a priority list should also be established, in which the guardians continue to have priority, in order to ensure that their training needs are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e316	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2323]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e332	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that anyone who has to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e341	The Defence Committee refers to one with Document No. 8:38, from the representative of Bastisen, aims to ask the Government to evaluate the conversion process in the Defense, to assess whether the accounting procedures are good enough, and to assess whether the costs of foreign operations are satisfactoryly probable in the Defense's accounts. The Committee has considered it right to interpret the word ‘probably’ as ‘visible’, in other words, whether the costs of foreign operations are reflected satisfactorily in the defence accounts. The Committee's plurality will also show that, in the context of its first proposal, which is a proposal for an evaluation of the process of conversion, in conjunction with the budgetary management of the last few years, it has done well for the conversion of defence. The committee majority believes that in this context there have been many and sufficient opportunities to ask questions to the Ministry of Defence for more information. The change in defence has also been the subject of debate in wide-ranging hearings and rounds of questions, which in turn served as the basis for the multiplicity's handling of the Innst. S. No 234 for 2003-2004, cf. St. pp. No 42 for 2003–04, which deals with the defence’s activities in the period 2005–08. In this case, the majority of the committee found it clear that a new statement from the Ministry of Defence is not necessary. I want to show that these relationships are also recorded in St.meld. No 29 for 2004-2005 and in the revised national budget, or, more precisely, in St.prp. No 65 for 2004-2005. The Defence Committee acknowledges that the accounting procedures in the Defence are still a challenge for the Defence. This fact was underlined by the fact that the National Audit Office did not approve the defence’s accounts for 2003. We should be aware that there is a division of roles between the Storing and the Government. The Ministry of Defence has the task of giving money and giving money to the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry has the task of complying with the requirements of Stortinget. The ministry must also keep its own activity within the limits given. These are the tasks of the Ministry of Defence, and so does the requirement to make a constant assessment of the use of costs in the Defence. The size cannot control the defense's money usage in detail. On the other hand, if the defense does not have the tools needed to properly control the use of money in the defense, then this must be dealt with with with by Stortinget in order to get it in place. The Gulf programme has been the subject of many rounds in the defence committee. When Minister of Defense Bjørn Tore Godal presented this project, he felt that the scope and framework of the project meant that that project should be divided into separate phases. This idea I have noticed is signifying in connection with the revised national budget, where it is in St.prp. No 65 states that the Government will propose a ‘step-by-step introduction of the delivery projects in the Programme Golf’. I think that makes sense, and it has the Workers' Party's full support. I also believe that it makes sense that relations with the external consumption of defence in 2004 are addressed in the context of St.meld. No 29 for 2004-05, where it belongs to home. With this in mind, I would suggest that the Storting should follow the proposal of the Committee on Defence's plurality, and that Bastesen's proposal, Document No. 8:38 for 2004-2005, is rejected. A minority in the Committee has a different conclusion. I expect them to do something for their own point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e369	The rapporteur has explained well on this matter, as there is really no particular divergence in the Committee. The proposal by the minority is not much different than the proposal by the majority, to put it this way, so this should not create a big debate. I do not intend to stay at Stortinget for a very long time with this. That said, it cannot be said that this matter is very important. The proposer has raised a very important matter. The fact that the matter is important to address shows previous debates in Stortingen about this, and not least various hearings that have taken place in Stortinget. What the proposer asks for is an evaluation of the implementation of the accounting and salary systems in the Defence. It should be clarified whether the accounting systems used by the Defence Office open up the possibility that one has disregarded the real costs incurred abroad in the defence, both here in Norway and abroad. He also points out that several have raised the question of foreign defence operations being underreported in relation to their actual costs. This is very important to have a debate. Now, in a way, this proposal drowns in a big message that has arrived at Stortinget later – St.meld. No 29 for 2004-2005. Of course, it did not know the author of the proposal when he made his proposal. It is, as I said, praiseworthy what he has done. I will finally present the minority proposal, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e380	The representative Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e383	Much has happened since this document No. The 8-proposal was promoted. There is evidence of a significant increase in consumption in the 2004 budget of the Defence Agency and of significant errors in the new accounting systems. It is clear that you do not have an overview of how much the Norwegian defence foreign exposure actually costs. There have been various hearings as new things have been revealed. Therefore, it is good that the Stortinget has asked the National Audit Office to present a separate case to the Stortinget as soon as possible for a review of the Ministry of Defence's accounts for 2004. The Storting has also asked the Government to present a separate case to the Stortinget that makes it visible how the Government will recover overall governance with the Defence economy. If it turns out, through the forthcoming merger, that the defence accounting system still does not keep track of its objectives and that there are still problems in making the defence foreign exposure visible, we will come back to this matter. It is totally unacceptable that the Ministry of Defence does not have an overview of its own economy and activity, no matter how the defence is organised, and no matter how many reforms the defence is exposed to. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Defense who they will die for, the soldiers who are at war abroad. When I was in the military -- that's a few years ago -- we were supposed to die for the King, the homeland and the flag. So the question remains: who are they going to die for, the soldiers who are going to war today? Moreover, the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e394	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2323]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e410	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Centre Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e419	The majority today has a proposal for a veterinary watch system agreement, an agreement concluded with the Norwegian veterinary association on 4 February this year. Negotiations on this agreement have been extremely difficult and marked by a great deal of distance between the parties, both on the issue of financial compensation for clinical watchkeeping and in retrospect also on the arrangements of the watch districts. Negotiations were broken as early as March 2004. In June 2004, the Veterinary Association terminated the veterinary watch agreement for 2005 with effect from 1 January 2005. In spite of this, we did not have any further negotiations until January 2005. It is unacceptable that a long period without veterinary watch arrangements took place in the evening, at night and on the weekends. The State has the overall responsibility to ensure that a watch regime is in place. This also clarified a unanimous increase during the treatment of Ot.prp. No 52 for 2000-2001. The delay between the termination of the agreement and the resumption of the negotiations is therefore not acceptable and should definitely not occur if a similar situation exists in the future. A unanimous committee also states that the responsibility of the State for veterinary watch should also apply in the future, without prejudice to the work being carried out by the Government in assessing the transfer of these duties to the municipalities. It's a job Stortinget has to decide in a different context. However, the Committee stresses in its recommendation that it is a public – and a state – responsibility to ensure that a satisfactory veterinary watch regime is in place. It is not an individual veterinarian's responsibility and is to take on its own responsibility. The State has the overall responsibility for having such a watch regime in place. It is not acceptable for animals to suffer because they have not been able to obtain such a scheme, as was the case in winter. There have been some strong objections to the division of the watch districts provided by the Ministry and the Food Authority in the light of the agreement concluded. Large distances in some of these districts result in both unsustainable working conditions for the individual veterinarian and, in particular, unacceptable response times in the case of disease, affecting both animal health and animal welfare. A unanimous committee therefore promotes the following setting: ‘The Government is asked to set up a sample, including with independent representatives, to review the size and number of veterinary watch areas and to adapt the staffing of the areas as necessary. The work of the Committee should be completed by October 2005 and must be based on the financial framework of the Agreement adopted.» The desire for such an investigation in relation to the division of watch areas in which independent representatives are also involved is, in the Committee's view, crucial in order to be able to get in touch with this work and to have a watch regime that is respected and that works according to the intention. For the current agreement period, i.e. the current year, the Committee assumes that solutions can be found within the agreed agreement, and the Committee expects a dialogue between the parties to achieve a satisfactory outcome in this area. The agreement provides for the continuation of 161 watch areas. The agreement involves strengthening staffing in some areas during periods of high need for emergency assistance. In the light of the agreement, the Ministry of Agriculture has made an adjustment and aggregation of watch areas in the evening, at night, on weekends and on public holidays. All of this is in line with the agreement, and it was actually as much as 90 pst. the conclusion of the Agreement in the first ballot of the members of the Veterinary Association. In retrospect, there have been strong reactions to the adaptation that has taken place. The individual parties in the committee will probably explain their position and approach to the agreement concluded, but for themselves and for the Central Party, I would say that it is not strange that it has been reacted to the division of watch areas at evening and night times that have taken place by the department. In some areas, there are very large distances, so great distances that you talk about driving times of up to four to five hours of travel-return in some of these guard areas. This leads to an unacceptable workload, which means that it takes too long before animals are helped with disease. In our opinion, there should also have been an evaluation of the old watch regime before a new division of watch areas was made. This was also requested at an earlier time, and I find it remarkable that it has been decided to make such a significant tightening in the number of watch areas without carrying out an evaluation and a review of how the old watch areas have worked. There has been a very high temperature in this matter, and in retrospect I think it must be allowed to say that none of the parties, and at least those to the seventh and last applies, namely animals that need veterinary assistance, have been served the way this matter has been handled. The Government's threats of enrichment in relation to veterinarians who are not available on the telephone do not belong to such a system as is in relation to veterinary watchkeeping, where the State is required to have an agreement, and where it cannot be expected that the individual veterinarian will be at work 24 hours a day. Now I see that the Minister of Agriculture is also present in the Chamber. Then it might be appropriate to say that there is no doubt that what has happened in relation to the financial compensation in the last years of this Minister of Agriculture, of course, is for the benefit of the veterinarians. There has been a significant increase in financial compensation and has now reached the level set by a sample set by the Council of State. So in relation to the financial compensation, the Committee does not object to the agreement that has been concluded. Furthermore, the Committee has not objected to the concluded agreement in any other way than what I have already said, that it is necessary to carry out a thorough review of the division of watch areas with a view to improving their arrival at night and evening, in order to avoid having large and unmanageable watch areas. As regards the containment, the Government proposes that this be covered by the budget of the Food Authority, with a cut of 8 million. kr. The Committee does not object to this being the case, except that two parties, SV and the Central Party, have notified that this will be brought back in the context of the examination of the revised national budget and, in that context, propose an alternative recovery. In a letter to the Ministry, the Food Authority has clearly indicated that there is already a pressing economic situation and problems in carrying out the tasks to be carried out in a satisfactory manner within the financial framework. It's a big organization that's going through a significant conversion work, and taking such a big cut in the middle of a budget year we find irresponsible. We will therefore propose a different coverage during the examination of the revised national budget. When we have not done so in this context, it is because the consideration of this matter and the treatment of the revised national budget are so coincident in time that we found it natural to take it in that context. Finally, I would be allowed to recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e456	I would like to open the door to commend both the case rapporteur and the committee for the fact that we have come to a broadly unanimous position on this matter. The rapporteur has also examined the main points of the matter in an excellent manner and the problems of the large guard areas in the debate on this matter. That's why I want to focus mainly on the areas where we in the Workers' Party have different comments, and explain why, and as a result say something about what we hope can happen in the future. Like most people, we agree that we must have a well-functioning veterinary watch, and that it is of great importance not only for the animals that need a veterinarian inside, but also for the farmers who have chosen to take on the great responsibility it is to have animals. They must be able to be sure that veterinarians have access when they need it. In this year’s negotiations between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Norwegian Veterinary Association, negotiations and strikes were broken for the first time, creating major problems in the further handling of the case. We, who were on the outside, could also record that the tone between the parties was quite sharp, which does not always help to find solutions, as the rapporteur has also said something about. This is one of the reasons why we from the Workers' Party are doing something as unusual as suggesting that a sample be set up, including with independent representatives, just to review the size and number of veterinary watch areas, and to adapt the staffing of the areas as needed. In principle, this is unusual when a law empowers the parties to negotiate the arrangement. Actually, the situation should have been that they solved this themselves. But in order to find a solution to a difficult situation, we therefore agree with this proposal, which we see as the only solution in this situation we have come up with. The members of the Government Parties and the Advance Party also ask the Government to consider whether it is appropriate that future agreements also regulate the specific manning. We're not in this comment. The reason for this is that we do not now want to give leadership in the work to be done in the future. We believe that the sample to be reduced should make relatively open assessments and not enter into the agreements that already exist. Stortinget and Odelstinget have only a few years ago dealt with the issue of clinical veterinary watch and the changes in the law that followed, and we feel that there is no need to change the law at this time. We believe that the matter must now be settled, now the areas too large must be adjusted, and then the sample must have the courage to work out a proposal for a new division of watch areas that everyone can live with, and a system that can work in the future. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food proposes to cover the increased expenditure of the veterinary guard by reducing the operational budget of the Food Safety Authority. The Ministry says in its proposal that this can be carried out with limited consequences for the level of activity of the Food Safety Authority. We were a little skeptical about this, but we chose to accept the argument that the department initially had, and we were not in the comments from SV and the Center Party either. One of the reasons for this was that the majority, in which we were involved, will ‘point out that it has been made aware that the Food Authority has a difficult budgetary situation and asks the Ministry to inform the Stortinget more closely about this in the Revised National Budget for 2005.’ We have now received a revised national budget, we have also received a letter from the Food Authority and from the trustees, and we have read today's Nations, which has a big look at the Food Authority's situation, and I must say now that this cut we have been doing, has not been entirely lucky. If we want to get back to this in the revised, it's a little early to say something about, but there's absolutely something we're going to discuss now, whether we can't help rectifying the situation that the Food Safety Authority has come up with, which I think is relatively unsustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e475	I am pleased that today we are presenting a unanimous position. There is no reason to hide that this has been a crooked and difficult matter, and that it has sometimes been unnecessarily eaten. The veterinarians are self-employed, and as we in our country have very different animal densities and long distances, it is clear that the public must take responsibility for having a well-functioning veterinary watch. I am pleased that through this suspension we establish the agreed financial framework for the agreement. I am also pleased that the Committee gives a signal that the available resources can be better used. I have registered that this may apply to watch systems that the Food Safety Authority has for emergency reasons, and I have registered that it may also apply to the Small Animals Special Guard, and that it can be involved in the work to make better use of the available resources. The agreement on a clinical veterinary watch regulates the crew. There is therefore a very high degree of detail in that agreement. In this respect, the parties have agreed on the number of veterinarians to be on guard at different times throughout the day and the size of the area to be served. I believe that such a degree of detail in a central agreement provides too little flexibility to adapt local solutions. There are wide variations in this country in travel distances, communication possibilities, stocking density and different animal species. There must be room for more local solutions and adaptations. For this reason, we have recommended in the vote that the Ministry of Future Agreements should consider not agreeing on how to manpower the individual areas at the different times. I am also pleased that the Department is working on the responsibility of the municipalities for the veterinary guard. In this context, it is important that municipalities have the freedom to organise and staff the watch system as needed. I have registered that the agreement provides for a general rule that two and two watch areas should have a common service on the networks and parts of the weekends. Following the agreement, the Veterinary Association shall not participate in the selection of the specific areas of joint service. It has been agreed by the parties that the State should decide. The Committee has taken note of some well-founded objections to the division of areas of common service that has been made, and we are therefore in favour of a sample looking at this. However, I cannot help but wonder about the concern that arose when this agreement was received by a vote in favour of 90 pst. the agreement of the veterinarians. But now it seems that this matter is in a good way to get a permanent and good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e488	The size currently takes a decision to set up an independent sample to assess the organisation of the veterinary watch system and to make an adjustment before the end of September. After the open hearing on 11 April, there is good reason to expect rapid progress if the parties add the credit. The most important thing is to arrive at a solution that makes sense with regard to the size and manning of the watch areas. Work must produce a result which ensures the proper treatment of sick animals. A study on watch areas also has broad support, and all relevant bodies are invited into the sample. In this context, I would like to remind you that there has been a lot of concern in this process. It is now the third year in a row that there have been difficulties in reaching a watch agreement. I would therefore appeal to the parties to show flexibility and willingness to compromise in the selection process, so that it can result in a system that is acceptable to all and where the animals are placed at the centre of special interests. On 4 February, a watch agreement was concluded between the State and the Veterinary Association. It has been a disappointment for the Progress Party to experience that even though 91 pst. of the members supported the agreement, there are very many who have not taken the consequences and followed up the agreement concluded. Although not all matters surrounding the guard areas were clarified at the conclusion of the agreement, demonstrative actions will not serve the cause. The Ministry has clearly stated in the bill that the division of watch areas is based on discretion and without a detailed overview of the watch needs and travel distances in all areas. It has therefore been in the cards that adjustments should be made. This finds its reasonable solution gradually, we hope. There are, among other things: a great deal to be contributed by the veterinarians, based on competence and experience. Rather than sabotage an agreement, it is far better to participate in line with the negotiated agreement, by virtue of knowledge and experience from its own neighbourhood and with observations on the use of resources and the size of the watch areas. Reports from participation in the watchkeeping service are valuable information for the sample to work on the case. It'll be far better than to throw out claims about unacceptable conditions. The Norwegian veterinary association has recommended that those of its members who boycott the concluded agreement should take on the guards in the original watch areas until the hearing on the veterinary agreement in Stortinget on 11 April. Many guard areas are still unmanned at night and on weekends. Although several veterinarians have recently agreed to watch, a good number of watch areas have been available until now. This can't be the way to go. It would be better if the Veterinary Association had given a strong call to its members to terminate the watch agreement with the State. As it has now evolved, fronts are being created, which is very unfortunate, in relation to the climate that should prevail in the sample, and which should be based on reason and not emotions. Not least for animal ethical reasons, veterinarians should stay at work. It is worrying that the animal owners fail by veterinarians abandoning them, and many have relied on animal life and health considerations in this conflict. Although there have been different opinions about the agreement, it is a serious step to take when many veterinarians go to work. Unfortunately, it affects the animals, which are innocent in the situation. Some actually believe that the animals have become ballistics in a cynical game of financial means. Now all parties must consider and allow the sample to assess the organisation of the veterinary agreement to work to draw their conclusions. If weaknesses are detected, the conditions must be corrected so that the animals are not suffering unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e505	On the SV side, we will also give tribute to the rapporteur, Mr Enoksen, for good work. We are fully committed to what he put forward in his article. But now I want to comment on a couple of relationships. The first is on the relationship between magnification and government in such a matter, for there is no doubt that as parliamentarians we experienced a considerable pressure from the veterinarians when they were negotiating with the Government. SV is at least very concerned that this is the responsibility of the Government, and that we have to keep our hands off the barrel when negotiations are in progress between two parties. There's wage negotiations here, there's a wage struggle here, and it's very important that we don't mix the roles and get into that fight. Then you can discuss whether these negotiations were conducted in a good or less good way. At least it is registered that you reached an agreement at the end. Wages and salaries throughout the years have been characterized by the fact that they have sometimes taken longer than desirable, and we also record that here. But what we're going to be concerned about, on the other hand, is two things in particular: the welfare of animals and the well-being of farmers. We have to be clear that we expect the Council of State and the Government to be able to take care of it. One of the qualities of Norwegian agriculture is that we have had a very good animal welfare, and that we are constantly looking to improve this animal welfare. There's the vets at the center. They are very central in the ongoing follow-up, but they also have to move out when there is a crisis with animals, disease and other things. That's why we've been worried that a lot of animals were suffering in this paycheck, but I'm glad you're on the track now. We expect the veterinarians now to follow closely what has been agreed upon. So I'll comment a little bit on this with guard areas. It is clear that when these negotiations came to new areas of watch, it probably happened a little too quickly. We are pleased that the entire committee agrees that we are now going to review these watch areas, because we see that if many of the watch areas are safe enough, there are some large stocking density and other large distances, and in those cases, the watch areas have actually not been adapted to the needs. We have an exciting country and many island communities, and we have many challenges. I hope the sample that is now to be put down comes up with a breakdown that is better than the one that was presented in the last round. Finally, I would like to stress that the public must be responsible for veterinary preparedness in Norway. When the state now sits with that responsibility, we in SV it is very important that we do not get into a situation where one also privatises it. It is important for Norwegian agriculture that public governance is precisely in the field of veterinary preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e518	I am pleased to note that the agreement concluded between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Norwegian Veterinary Association on clinical veterinary watch came into port. It was a long way to go before the goal was reached. If the agreement expired at the end of the year and a new clinical veterinary watch agreement was first signed on 4 February 2005 for the current year, it is important to stress the importance of having a clinical veterinary watch agreement covering the whole country. There is an important social function and safety associated with the agreement because it is designed to ensure that sick and injured animals can obtain the necessary help outside of normal working hours. For farmers, it is absolutely essential that animals be treated within a reasonable period of time, thus avoiding unnecessary suffering. The distances in our country are large, and there's also a great variation in the animal density. It is therefore important that watch areas are also well adapted to the local geographical and animal density of the watch area in question. For the Christian People's Party, it is especially important to focus on the challenges that lie within geographical distances. The country is a long way off, and there are people living in many villages. Communication opportunities and travel times vary greatly, and this reflects the availability of veterinarians. With the geography we have in Norway, the Christian People's Party believes it is particularly important that it works well in economically vulnerable areas, where the veterinarians have relatively large areas to cover. In this context, it has also been shown that there may be a need to look at the possibility of transferring responsibility for the watch systems to the municipalities. Developments have shown that the overall basis for veterinary services for farmed animals has been reduced in parts of Norway. Market mechanisms alone are not sufficient to recruit veterinary labour to several districts. The justification for this agreement is therefore beyond doubt, and the economic consequences of the agreement require increased allocation. 1115 item 70 by 8 million. kr for the current year. It is important not to forget that the veterinarians are self-employed persons who have a personal interest in serving their customers, even outside the ordinary working hours of employees. In many of the livestock-tight areas of the country, it is a well-functioning market for veterinary services. The clinical veterinary watch shall be the community safety net to ensure access to veterinary services outside the normal working hours. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is particularly important that the safety net represented by the watch regime operates well in those areas where there is a weak nutritional basis for veterinary services and thus few veterinarians providing clinical services as an industry. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, we have been informed in the Business Committee that there are opportunities to improve the use of available resources. This may apply to the watch regime of veterinarians in the Food Safety Authority for emergency reasons. I also think it is important to include the resources used for the Special Guard for small animals in an effort to improve the use of the resources available. I have also registered that the agreement on a clinical veterinary watch regulates staffing, which is not common in employment contracts. In this respect, the parties have agreed on the number of veterinarians to be on duty at different times throughout the day and on the size of their duties. I think such a degree of detail in a central agreement provides too little flexibility for local adaptations. There should be room for local solutions in our long-term country with wide variations in communication opportunities, travel distances and the types of animal husbandry. For this reason, we have recommended that the Department consider whether future watch agreements should avoid agreeing on how to manning watch areas at different times. The Christian People's Party has registered that the agreement provides for a general rule that two and two watch areas should have joint operation on the networks and in parts of the weekends. Following the agreement, the Veterinary Association should not participate in the selection of the specific areas for joint service. This has been agreed by the parties that the State should do so. We in the Committee have noted some well-founded objections to the division of areas of joint service made by the Ministry. But in the unconstitutional vote, more than 90 pst said. by the veterinarians, they agreed to the agreement, thereby also agreeing to the general rule on the joint operation of two and two watch areas. When we deal with this with watch areas and their establishment, I think it is positive that there is an overall committee behind the proposal to set up a sample, including independent representatives, to review the size and number of watch areas for veterinarians, as well as the adaptation of the staffing of the areas as needed, and that a starting point is the economic framework. They have increased significantly under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e541	The Economic and Social Committee has given the question of veterinary watch regimes a thorough review of the position currently under consideration. The process towards an agreement with the Norwegian veterinary association, DNV, on clinical veterinary watch was very demanding, and I am pleased that we now have a signed agreement. Since Stortingen received the proposal for a veterinary watch for treatment, we have recorded an increasing practical breakdown of the agreed watch regime as 91 p.m. the veterinarians agreed to the vote. But there are still less than 30 of the country's 161 watch areas where there are no veterinarians who want to be in the watch system. The Committee has been committed to measures which may improve the functioning of the system, in particular changes in the geographical breakdown of the areas to be served by each veterinarian. The Committee has requested the Ministry and the DNV to consider changes in the breakdown as a matter of urgency. I am therefore pleased to inform Stortinget that the Norwegian veterinary association and the department yesterday, 18 May, signed an agreement on certain adjustments to the agreement we entered into in February. The aim of these amendments is to facilitate full participation in the veterinary watch and thereby promote the purpose of the agreement for the functioning of this system throughout the country. Due to the changes we agreed with DNV yesterday, it is among other things. given greater flexibility to the Food Safety Authority to find good geographical boundaries in the individual areas to be served by a veterinarian. I assume that the Food Authority and the veterinarians will now jointly seek solutions that will allow us to have a functioning watch system throughout the country in a short time. A challenge to the watch agreement we have today is that it goes very far in regulating the number of veterinarians to be on guard at the different times of the day and in the different watch areas. This gives little flexibility in manning the watch regime as needed, for example by seasonal fluctuations and local conditions. Therefore, on the basis of the comments of the Committee's members from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party – who have a majority behind them in this Chamber – I would like to carefully assess how far we are going in the detailed regulation of watch regimes in future key agreements. Also, in order to give municipalities the influence they should have in a future municipal solution, it is important that municipalities do not take over contractual commitments that prevent flexibility and good local solutions. We have been in dialogue with the DNV for some time now to try to agree on a mandate for a broader investigation of the watch regimes, both in terms of the number and size of watch areas and the adaptation of crews to them as necessary. I am therefore very pleased that, through its proposal for a Roman Numeral Decision, the Committee has established a clear framework for the investigation that the Government is now going to carry out. I record that the committee – as I do – believes that the watch agreement gives veterinarians a good financial count. The financial framework for the agreement will be the basis for the investigation we are about to launch. In my opinion, it is well-informed that we should be able to quickly start an important work with a view to establishing a forward-looking watch regime that is also adapted to a smooth transfer of responsibility to the municipalities. The Committee has called on us to assess whether the resources of the veterinary watch can be better used by looking at the administrative watch of the Food Safety Authority and the clinical watch system in the context. In the reform of food management, it was an important objective to distinguish public and private activities. I also record that the need of the Food Safety Authority to be available to the public outside normal working hours is increasingly linked to needs other than animal health preparedness, such as aid for the clearance of seafood for export. These conditions suggest that I think we should be cautious about coordinating the Food Safety Authority's watchkeeping system with the clinical veterinary watch. In my opinion, it is more relevant to see the resources of the clinical veterinary watch and the 10 million. kr is currently used for a specialised pet watch system, in the context, when we are now considering how best to spin the community safety net in order to ensure that users have access to veterinary services outside normal working hours. I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when the investigation is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e561	It is gratifying to hear that there is a good dialogue between the Council of State and the veterinarians, and that adjustments to the agreement have already been made to make it more functional. We know that the sample now to work will work until the end of October. It will probably take some time, I think, from the end of the sample to the start of new watch areas. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State feel confident that the veterinary emergency response will be adequately maintained until the new breakdown is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e569	Let me first say that it is very serious to stand on the pulpit of the Storting and be very confident about the consequences of conditions that are not over, and decide that all veterinarians are running guards all over the country. I felt quite certain that it would be in place when we had a signed agreement already in February, where almost all the veterinarians said yes to the agreement that regulated these watch districts. But when we're done with this treatment in Stortinget, and when the Stortinge says unanimously and so clearly that now the money to be put on the table is put on the table – it's a good economic arrangement for the veterinarians who have been subjected to the problems that have been all along – and we've got a new adjustment to the agreement per. Yesterday, with the most difficult manageable watch areas, I assume that these guards are handled and driven by veterinarians across the whole country, even in those areas that are central and that are not subject to the adjustments that have now taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e574	Let there be no doubt that there is a unanimous increase in membership of the agreement concluded, as is quite common when an agreement is reached between the government and the parties to the professional organisations. As a result, the framework for the current year has also been put in place and must be followed. Within the financial framework, a satisfactory watch regime must be found, and I am, like the previous speakers, very pleased that a new agreement has been reached, or adjustments to the agreement, and that a satisfactory solution has been found. And so I would say the following: when the Council of State refers to II and says that there is also a clear framework, I assume that the Council of State, with its long seagoing service in this house, is able, even if one is to take on the basis of the economic framework, to distinguish between the terms «within the economic framework» and «at the basis of the economic framework».
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e581	The country’s financial framework for the purchase or supply of non-working-hour watch veterinarians has increased from 40 million in 2001 from the date of accession of this government. SEK to close to 80 million. kr a year, and it has created the basis for what we can say is a good financial arrangement for the veterinarians, and it has been joined by the Storting. I am pleased with that, and now we show, and not least through the adjustments made yesterday, that it is possible within the economic framework to have good veterinary coverage throughout the country at all times. So it is important to me that the Storting has said this – and I said well in my post that the agreement is based on the agreed financial framework – that the agreement has a level that is acceptable. I have not said that it should stand firm at this level for all future; it should be negotiated on that basis. But what we've been doing for a few years now is getting a different level of the financial framework for the watch regime, that it's comparable to the framework for doctors on watch, and then it's going to be like normal negotiations in the future on that framework basis. It should not be the big jumps from now on, but normal adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e588	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2323]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e604	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e615	A clean sea is essential for Norway. Large parts of Norway’s population live off and work in relation to coastal production. It is therefore essential that maritime safety and safety against pollution are a high priority. The best way to prevent pollution and damage is to facilitate the absence of accidents. Through the development and use of modern technologies such as AIS, the further development of traffic centres and the establishment of sensible routes away from land, a great deal can be achieved to avoid accidents. Unfortunately, history has shown us that it is not possible to secure 100 pst. against accidents. The circumstances surrounding the loss of Prestige outside Galicia in north-west Spain, which transported 80 000 tonnes of crude oil, show that when it goes wrong, it costs society billions of dollars in terms of clean-up and loss of market share for business. In addition, of course, they cause suffering and damage to animal life and fauna. With the Norwegian climate and, in part, extreme weather conditions occurring in the autumn and winter, Norway has a special challenge when something goes wrong. The degradation time at pollution is longer in the cold climate here north than in a warmer climate. In these cold areas, Norway has a rich bird life and a rich animal life that is extremely vulnerable. Norway therefore has a special responsibility to ensure that accidents do not occur. However, it is equally important that when accidents occur, considerable resources are needed to avoid excessive consequences. In order to avoid the consequences of an accident developing, society must pay a ‘insurance premium’ in the form of a high level of preparedness. Such preparedness must take precautionary measures in order to avoid accidents. The readiness must take account of the fact that if a boat gets an engine failure, this will no longer develop into anything. Therefore, the correct towing boat capacity with short response time is important. Furthermore, preparedness must take account of the fact that the worst can happen, and that the right amount of bilges can be at the seafarer at the right time, and with a well-schooled and trained crew. At a time of high activity in Skagerrak and a sharp increase in oil transport from Russia along the coast, it is particularly important to focus on the risk of accidents with a subsequent risk of pollution. The majority of the Committee is pleased that the Government has now submitted St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005, on the safe side – maritime safety and oil protection. The communication provides a good description of the current situation and the challenges facing the future. Although the message provides a good overview of, for example: the available tug capacity shows the loss of ‘Fiord Champion’ in the South that much can still be improved. When an accident first occurs, it is essential that the preparedness, equipment and training of the crew are dimensioned to deal with the situations in which they arise. I believe that this is not the case in today's oil protection system, and that the measures promoted in the communication are not sufficiently concrete. Once a boat is in distress, with the consequent risk of total failure, it is particularly important that it is capable of preventing such a disaster. Free towing boat capacity will be essential in such cases. I would like to point out some important prerequisites for a rescue operation to prevent a total failure with the consequent risk of life and pollution. During such an event it is essential that there is available towboat capacity and that the response time is acceptable. The accident with the «Fjord Champion» showed that even in an area with large tug capacity, it was not possible to obtain a towing boat quickly. This shows, in my view, the need for binding agreements with coastal actors to provide sufficient towboat capacity where necessary. Even if the towing boat capacity is secured by agreements, the response time is essential. A response time requirement could vary, for example: based on the distance from the shoreline. The progress team believes that a normal response time should be 6 hours, but based on the sailing path up to 12 hours. In this context, we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, a towing boat capacity along the entire Norwegian coast with a normal response time of 6 hours and a maximum of 12 hours based on the coastal route.’ Developments are in the direction of increasing numbers of vessels, thereby increasing bunker stocks. Therefore, the Committee is pleased that the Government is proposing to establish emergency unloading packages for bunker oil along the coast. On the other hand, the party of progress, together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left, believes that the response time should be 12 hours, and we ask the Government to base it on its further work. Unfortunately, there is no majority for this. Emergency discharge equipment for cargo oil at Stavanger, Ålesund, Bodø and Hammerfest has been established. In addition, the Committee considers that a depot should be established in the South-East and asks the Government to facilitate it. The Progress Party believes that a strong commitment to competence and training in oil protection will be essential in order to achieve the objective of improving maritime safety and increasing oil protection preparedness. In this context, NorthNorwegian Emergency Centre AS will be the central training actor in relation to pollution that has not reached the coastal zone, and Norway's Fire School will be the central player in coastal zone preparedness training. I see it as natural that these professional communities establish a closer cooperation with a view to achieving the best possible training. Fedje is centrally located in relation to both Mongstad and Sture shipping. Mongstad alone has approx. 2500 calls from large tankers each year; more than 50 of these calls are ships of more than 300000 dwt. Across this traffic, local traffic and ordinary coastal traffic go. Even on some of these major ships, after loading and leaving the Mongstad area, a significant risk of adverse events may arise. The main depot located on Fedje is now reduced to a middle depot, and to facilitate the coverage of exposed sea areas, the main depot has now moved to Florø. In my view, there were good reasons to establish a main depot in Florø, but there is still a basis for a separate main depot at Fedje with the same level of preparedness as before, and we are asking the Government to facilitate this immediately. Unfortunately, it is not a majority. Much of the equipment at state depots is old and should be upgraded. The notification indicates that an upgrade of the main deposits will start in 2005 and that an ongoing assessment will be made of strengthening the deposits as traffic increases and environmental risks increase. There is a clear need for both strengthening and upgrading the middle depot and the main depot, and I point out that in 2001 the State Pollution Control Authority estimated that the necessary immediate measures would cost about 100 million. kr. Against this background, the Progress Party asks the Government to present a concrete plan for upgrading and strengthening the main and intermediate deposits, at the latest in the context of the 2006 budget. Furthermore, the Party further argues that the upgrading and strengthening of the deposits takes place rapidly and that the immediate measures still to be implemented are implemented immediately. Together with Haakonsvern, Statoil Mongstad and NOFO, the company Skimmer Technology has developed an OP shimmer that can be operated by one person and collect large parts of oil in the event of contamination. I myself have demonstrated this on Haakonsvern and can confirm that it is very effective. I am therefore asking the State Council to test out this type of shimmer against the type that the Coastal Agency itself uses, and to assess whether the purchase of this type of shimmer will not produce a better effect. I assume that the other parties will promote their views in relation to the notification. I am thus addressing the proposal I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e653	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e658	There are many aspects to this matter that I think there is a great deal of agreement on. It is in a way a little unfortunate that, in such a major national challenge as oil protection, there is too much concern about focusing on the possible areas of disagreement. My problem with the Progress Party is that it seems that they want more than to discuss the substance problems to get out of the problem, because the 'large' proposals they are behind are cost-intensive proposals that do not necessarily ensure the best possible preparedness either on the coast or in the sea. My question is: why is the Progress Party not willing or interested in investing in the organisational measures to ensure the transparency and proper coordination of the resources available, before identifying which places to be invested in order to increase the appropriations, and thus getting better preparedness in the long term than the one we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e667	It is clear that the Progress Party is also concerned with investing in organizational improvements in this area, but it does not help to come up with words about organisational solutions when a large tanker is operating and there are no tugboats nearby that can take this boat to port. The only thing that is useful then is to get a cable on board the boat that can pull it to where it is needed to pull it. What needs to be is an assurance that we can do that, and then it's agreement with tugboats with a response time that's the important thing. Unfortunately, it costs money, but it also costs considerable money if the boat is lying broken in the spring, with the oil beer coming after it. Of course, we are willing to try to reach an agreement, but then you have to take inward that it costs money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e674	Let me agree with the previous replicator that we're together about most of it. I would like to commend the representative, Mr Svendsen, for his good report. In this area, the party of progress has proved to be an environmental champion. Yeah, not only that, but the Progress Party, along with the SV and the Center Party, goes a little bit further than what the majority here is doing. There is talk of extended towing boat standby and extended response time. In the case of the minority here, the Progress Party stands out to some degree. SV has announced that they will bring money. But as far as the Progress Party is concerned, I would like to refer to the last budget, the budget for this year, for which the Progress Party has cut sharply in the area of the Coastal Plant. Both the Coastal Plant chapter were generally taken from operating costs, and a significant sum was taken from new acquisitions and maintenance. Then I want to say that this extra bet in many ways does not ‘hang on hold’, if you want to say it in a northern Norwegian way. It may look as if you're going to give way to the road, but it's not possible to build a road on the sea, so where is the money going to be taken from?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e683	It was a pleasant introduction by the representative Sahl had. It was almost at the limit of an invitation to broad civil cooperation after the autumn's choice. We're happy to accept that invitation, and we'll see how far we're going with it. The fact that the Progress Party is an avid environmental champion should not be new. We've been doing that all along. The entire transport budget is characterized by the fact that we want a renewal of the car park, and we want better roads, which means that we get an improvement in the environment. This message takes into account what we are going to do in the future, after the government has described where we are today. It is quite obvious that in the future we will invest funds to ensure that we achieve the objectives, while focusing on improving the efficiency of public services, including the Coastal Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e692	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a thorough work, and for having focused on actions. When this communication was presented, the absence of concrete measures to improve oil protection was the most obvious. As far as I am concerned, I am pleased that we have received a treatment that focuses on the fact that we need concrete measures here to get something done. Several of us have been concerned that we have to look at this as an insurance against the very biggest accidents happening along the Norwegian coast. Then I want to ask the case rapporteur if we belong to the minority, perhaps actually have been a little bit of a message when we say that we need a normal response time of 6 hours, in the worst case 12 hours, in the case of ships. Isn't it really a little bit of a message if we're going to avoid the worst happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e701	It is an unusual situation for me not to be in the attack position when SV has been up and had the word. But in this case, the Progress Party and SV have found each other. The basis for this is precisely that we have focused on actions and not on party speeches. There are measures to be taken, and that is what we have put into focus. In the case of money, you have to pay an insurance sum to avoid getting a large amount of expenses afterwards. Because when you know that you can't secure 100 pst, it's to make sure you're as secure as possible, so that we don't get that cost later. The experience of Prestige shows that the cost to society came back when the accident had happened. Are we too modest? I don't know if we're too modest. We can't secure 100 pst. But we've put ourselves on a level that I, and hopefully also SV, seem to make sense with that use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e711	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e714	For the Workers' Party, oil protection and maritime safety are a very important issue. That's why we, along with several others, pressed the Government to get a message to the Stortinge on this question. When the message came, I would not hide that it did not create the great enthusiasm. It was kind of not a message in the light fountain class. It was unclear on many points, it was characterized by vision more than by measures, and there were many who initially assessed whether there were no good reasons for a return. At the same time, we also got a dark background for everything in the accident with the «Fjord Champion» outside the South Coast. What has happened in the political process is that, on the part of the Workers' Party, we have tried to help find solutions, find proposals for measures that are more concrete than what was set out in the communication as such. At that time it was not only a matter of raising money, but also of ensuring a serious way of dealing with the organisational challenges. What happened around the Fjord Champion was an example of a lack of an overall, well-functioning plan. Cooperation with the government parties in this matter has been open and constructive. We've respected each other's different views, and we've been careful to let the disagreement that was present get in the way of reaching an agreement. Are we then satisfied with what is available today? No, no one is satisfied, because it's like the representative Svendsen said: we can't secure 100 pst. We're moving into a very complicated water, where we're going to try to achieve optimum efficiency, an optimal preparedness that can make people safe that we can act when accidents have to happen. But in that situation, we have both national and international responsibility. So we have to show both the initiative and the will to do something and be open at all times to ensure the improvements that will be available, both in terms of human resources and technology. When the debate first comes to the public, it becomes complicated, and then many are tempted to lose it all. It is difficult to keep a public eye on a coherent reasoning on oil protection and maritime safety, but it is very easy to draw attention if you can boil it all down to something that is concrete, such as: a response time of 6 hours. It kind of sounds more hand-cuffed. But I'm not sure that making it that simple is a contribution to ensuring optimally organised oil protection. There is capacity both on the public side and at private tug companies and oil companies, but their coordination is poor. The organisational work has not been done. It is pointed out by the majority that we need to make sure that the total preparedness is safer than we have now seen, and once again, the ‘Fiord Champion’ is an example that this did not work well enough. Therefore, the entire Committee believes that it is essential that oil protection and maritime safety be ensured through increased towing capacity, monitoring, improvement of response time, the assessment of new leaders, their labelling and control. So we're going to say the same thing. But it's like active attempts are being made to create a conflict within a serious topic, where consensus would have been a better contribution to people's security than what we now experience. Then it becomes trendy when the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen says to the NRK Nordland that the majority's position weakens preparedness. We disagree on a number of points, but saying that we are weakening preparedness is a dangerous contribution to creating an uncertainty where we have a responsibility to create a reasonable level of security. Another theme raised during the discussion of the issue has been to give the Lofoten-Barents Sea status as a PSSA area. I'm not going to go into the different issues around this, except to stress that for the majority it's been important that we take this question seriously. We have interests that could involve an application to the IMO to make parts of these areas the PSSA area, but we have to do it in the right order. We have different reasons to take, and we can't just say overnight that now we've fixed it. We have to include the different interests, the economic and the environmental, so that we can take the decisions that will be taken and send the application to the IMO that we may be sending, to make sure that it is the right parts that we want to get properly defined as the PSSA area. As of January 2003, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency was given responsibility for the State Oil Protection Preparedness, and it was a proper grip. We then got the responsibility made clear. There was one department that was supposed to do it all. So we got one general for readiness. It has basically ensured a clear command line when crises arise. But then it's important that the Coastal Works get the necessary expertise and equipment to be general, and that it's not just a theme that's written down on the paper. It is then important that the Coastal Agency now receives the necessary grant to enable them to acquire the skills they need and to make them competent in the leadership role that we have assigned to them. In this context, it is also important that the internal conditions of the Coastal Works become such that employees and management move in the same direction. It is not lucky if there are ongoing internal conflicts that weaken the potential efficiency of the Coastal Plant. Motivated employees will be essential for the Coastal Agency to be able to handle its general role as fully as possible in the future. We assume that today's oil protection preparedness is not enough to meet tomorrow's challenges. In this context, we have also pointed to the depots along the coast. We have said in the majority comment that the situation today suggests that there may be a basis for restoring Fedje as a separate main custodian, and asks the Government to present its own case on this matter. To say what that means for the Workers' Party, it means that with this we aim to get Fedje restored as a main depot. In the case of South Norway, the notification was initially weak. The plural setting has reinforced South Norway as an important part of oil protection, and it was precisely the coincidences surrounding the accident with Fjord Champion that there is no serious argument about oil protection without also looking at the situation in South Norway. Personally, of course, I am very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e737	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e740	It seemed to me that we have just been through a ten-minute explanation of what the Workers' Party has been involved in. Mrs. Frönn said that he was there and pressed the message forward. That's right. He was with the SV and the Progress Party to make sure that it happened. Mrs Fryn also says that it is the will and initiative to do so. Will and initiative! It's an act that's going on! It's an act that's going on. It's action that primarily avoids problems. In the area where the Fjord Champion accident occurred, tugboats were tight. It did not help, for the simple reason, that there was no agreement with the individual tug owners who could ensure that they were present when an accident occurred. So the Labour Party will not be involved. Frönn also talks about ‘motivated employees’. It would have been nice if these motivated employees had had some equipment to help them when they got up in an accident! Then he also says that the aim is to restore Fedje as a main depot. Why do they not propose it immediately when there are comments on it in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e751	We are to use the tug capacity of the private tugboat owners. We've also said that in the setting. We are to provide the Coastal Works with equipment that makes it competent to carry out the mission that the Storting has previously decided it will have. In the case of Fedje, we say that we have just reorganized the depots. We want a new investigation on that. We think that the situation warrants it. We have then formulated a wish to get it as a matter of our own. Whoever is able to see the distinction or conflict between what is the position of the minority and the position of the majority, I would remind you that there was a man, called Fanden, who had a tendency to read the Bible in his own way. Here I think we are facing a similar phenomenon!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e760	I do not think it is necessary to have such qualities as the last person mentioned by the representative Frown to read the Committee's position. The difference between the majority and the minority in the question in question in relation to Fedje is a word and that is the word ‘can’. That's why there's no majority to do anything about Fedje today, because the majority interprets it differently. The working party believes that ‘can’ means ‘shall’ and the government fraction believes that ‘can’ means that it can go back with and consider again. The representative Froyn says that oil protection is very complicated when it's in the media, and especially the committee's attitude. Yes, this is the case with things that do not tolerate daylight. They become a little bit complicated to explain in the media. For me, it is completely incomprehensible why the Workers' Party cannot participate in the proposal for a response time, which is not primarily a demand for money, but a goal that the existing goal for the northern regions today will also apply to the rest of the country. Why you can't be a part of it is completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e769	If you want to focus on the fact that a responsible response time can only be expressed in a given number of hours, I understand Sørensen's problem. What we have been concerned about is getting a visible overview of the capacity that is present both on the public side – we also like to discuss whether it should be reinforced, so it has nothing to do with it – and through the private tugboat owners and oil companies. If we get the total overview of these resources and how these can be organized together, we can see what opportunity we have to be operational in the shortest possible time when the accident had to happen. We may end up with a quality expressed in hours after a certain time, maybe even six hours, but the interesting thing is to take the problem where it exists at the organizational level. If you just make it an hour theme, you're just talking about economics.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e776	It's like when you listen to Bjørgov Froyn, you get the impression that he understands the problem. He realizes that there is a problem, but he is unable to do anything about it. This is the case in the case of special tug capacity. When Froyn is up here, he says he sees the problem, and that he wants to use private tug capacity. That's to the extent that a good old working party position, you want to spend other people's money! If you are to have a capacity, you must make an agreement with the owners of tugboats so that they are present in the areas where you need tug capacity. It's no use, as we clearly saw at the Fjord Champion Sea, that the boats are in Denmark, or that the crew is in the Canary Islands. If they had had an agreement with a tugboat company in the accident, the crew would have been present. We had had a tugboat and had not had to little on the higher powers to avoid accidents!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e783	The representative Froyn has understood the problem. He realizes the problem and is willing to do something about it. That's what I see from what's now the majority's position. It's clear that when we talk about private tug owners, we're not talking about coercive measures, that it's going to be related to punishment if they don't do what we say. Of course, we are talking about decent agreements, which must be concluded with them in order for them to be included in this preparedness. It is a debate that the minority has concluded before we have come into contact with these owners. They have somehow distributed the money before we have at all had the opportunity to sit down to talk about how this could be resolved. To the extent that the Progress Party has understood the problem and realized the problem, I am a little uncertain about what they mean by what they want to do with the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e790	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e793	St.meld. No 14 is a document for which this magnificence has already shown a great deal of interest in, and has been engaged in, treatment. The message describes our marine areas with an activity and a development where it is impossible to have a clear picture of the situation, for example. ten years ahead in time. Nevertheless, it is clear that the safety challenges and environmental challenges will rise, and it also takes the message up. The resulting message will be analysed thoroughly. These clearly show that the risk of environmental damage in specified geographical areas will increase in the years to come if increased ship traffic is not met by action. It's e.g. estimated that, over a decade, oil traffic from Russia to the west will increase to the triple without Russian pipeline to the north. With such a pipeline, we might see in the same time period a three times three-fold increase in the expected traffic. Nevertheless, the message states that maritime transport is an environmentally friendly and safe form of transport. Security here, as in most other situations, is a relative concept, which can never be seen as a 100pst guarantee against unfortunate events. The Committee, like the Government, is concerned with our vulnerable marine and coastal dining room and therefore considers that it is essential that maritime safety and safety against pollution are a high priority. Among other things, we focus on: on the development and use of the AIS, the further development of the traffic centres and the establishment of a reasonable distance from country. Based on the analytical material at the bottom, it was natural that the message focused on the north and western regions with the expected increased activity. In addition, we have put a searchlight on Skagerrak and Sørlanden, not least in the light of recent events and the actual traffic that is taking place. We have also found reason to stress that with the advanced position of the Coastal Plant in the organisation of maritime safety and oil protection, equipment and expertise are important according to this responsibility. With prevention as the main focus, it is important to underline the AIS cooperation with Russia and the Baltic Sea countries. It is also important to focus on the potential of a traffic centre for North Norway in Vardø and also to include the IMO Decision on the phasing-out of single-hull anchors by 2010. All of this will increase security and future environmental benefits. Similarly, the majority of the Committee focuses on what can be achieved on the monitoring side by using defence aircraft, what can be achieved by constantly improving satellite surveillance and what role small aircraft could play in such monitoring. All this asks the majority of the Committee's Government to come back to the Storting with its own way. It is important for the Committee to work together to ensure safety in the event of increased towing capacity, monitoring, improvement of response time and the assessment of new heading and their labelling and control. One element, the towing boat capacity, has been central to the Committee's work on the setting, and we are informed that the Coastal Agency has undertaken a comprehensive effort to identify available traction along the entire Norwegian coast. From our point of view, it has been important to stress the need to establish a dialogue with private tugboat companies with a view to clarifying the responsibility and clarifying the roles of these companies in the overall preparedness. One of the many actions in the message is the creation of emergency response equipment. This applies to bunker oil as well as cargo oil. Through the Committee's work, we have underlined the need for emergency discharge equipment for cargo oil in the South-East. Strengthening the depots for oil protection equipment is one of the message's actions. For a time, the depot structure in the West was reviewed with a view to strengthening oil conservation against the Stad Sea. In this connection, the depot in Fedje changed its status. Fading its middle-depot status has had some attention in the hearings, and the majority of the committee asks for the Government to come to the Stortingen with a reassessment on its own merits. It is also important to follow developments. This is a dynamic sector. What we are dealing with today is by no means a Soviet five-year plan. There is an en route message in a challenging situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e822	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e825	Submersible capacity is a decisive factor in the extent to which we will be able to avert an oil disaster in the future. How quickly can a tugboat arrive and take control of an oil tank that has come into operation in distress? SV and the Progress Party have proposed that a minimum response time of normally six hours, up to a maximum of 12 hours should be taken into account. The same has been proposed in the case of the construction of an oil tanker, the possibility of emptying oil tankers. Otherwise, response time is quite normal in other emergency preparedness plans here in the country. Here you can refer to the health care system – how long should it take for ambulances or rescue helicopters to arrive? Response time is on the ground. But the majority here are careful to establish that the preparedness must be good enough, as is evident from a majority comment. The explanation is contained in another note. If the State is to take responsibility alone, this will amount to several hundred million kroner. My question to the representative Hoddevik is: do not the government parties have enough money to set a response time for the towing boat capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e834	It's true that we've focused, among other things. for a better response time and set it in conjunction with a number of other actions in the message and in the settings. Not least, it is important that we also see response time in relation to the routes we can establish. It is a significant contribution to getting time to grips with a difficult situation. With regard to money, it is right that the message and the setting have focused on making the best use of the resources that you normally have available. We have presented all aspects of action and preparedness that can help improve the environment. The budgetary situation that we're used to always shows some kind of scarcity anyway. Perhaps neither the case rapporteur nor anyone else has contributed to the annual budgets of the Coastal Agency. Here it's important that we get the most out of the resources available. There is hardly anyone who has the absolute optimal and ideal in some budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e843	The representative Hoddevik said that he believes it is unrealistic that the state should have sole financial responsibility for the preparedness, and that this will quickly amount to several hundred million dollars. There is no one in this Chamber that I know of, who has said that the state should have sole responsibility for preparedness. But then the representative Froyn said that the Progress Party and SV had made themselves economical in relation to negotiations with any shipowners in terms of towing capacity. He actually made a big point out of it. It could be seen that negotiations were still to take place. It was just that no one should know about it. This is what Hoddevik said in the setting: ‘The majority believe that a dialogue must be established with private tug companies with a view to clarifying the responsibility and clarifying the role of these companies in the overall preparedness.’; Is it in this that you are still going to negotiate with the companies about a towboat capacity and payment for it, and that you are going to try to make it so secret that no one knows about it? Is that what's at stake here?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e853	Private towing boat standby is important. In large parts of the country, at least we have to make use of the resource that lies there. What these conversations and preparations can be about is not up to me to explain in detail from the Parliament's pulpit. It is also not here to negotiate possible contracts, on preparedness, on standby situations, etc. But for us, it is important to get a total uplift on this using the resources available, and that we do not need to extend the government budgets unnecessarily with state capacity exclusively for this activity. No response from the Chair of the Right-wing Representative is given today. This dialogue can turn into different angles to good solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e862	I think it's starting to draw a pretty clear strategy here. You don't want a response time target for safe oil protection. On the other hand, we have to negotiate with what is available in private capacity, with what is available in the annual budgets today, and then we have to see how far we can get. Then you have to set the response time after the resources you already have. With all due respect, President, it's a very special way of dealing with risk. Should we not put our targets first, and then go to negotiations to achieve the most effective oil protection preparedness? If it turns out that the goals are not achieved with the money you have available, there are actually two parties in the Storting that have said today that they are willing to spit in more to get it done. I find it interesting that the majority also say that tomorrow's preparedness is not good enough. Does the representative, Mr Hoddevik, realize that tomorrow's preparedness can be financed by what we are using today on oil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e869	As we have already seen, response time and actors in the context of preparedness are two of several elements in the overall assessment of maritime safety and oil protection. With regard to what has been said that today’s preparedness cannot meet tomorrow’s challenges, it is also clear that with increasing shipping traffic there will be a concrete need for additions to the Coastal Works budget. Here, the Storting has a challenge in any annual budgetary situation, including the minority alliance partners today, in focusing on the Coastal Agency's allocations, so that good resources can be made available for this purpose as far as possible. This is in context, and those who will be in this room on later occasions will get back to it, but that increased preparedness may require increased resources is reasonably natural. You're going to get the best possible result with the heads you use, and you're going to get the best possible result out of each of these heads. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e876	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e879	Norway has a coast and manages sea areas with very high values. Most of us live along the coast. Most of us use the coast, and the coast is the starting point for economic development, tourism and not least fisheries and aquaculture, which Norway relies entirely on economically. When we talk about oil conservation, it's because we want to protect the resources along the coast, including the natural values. We manage sea areas that are particularly vulnerable, and that are rich especially in fish, but also in different animal species. In September, I traveled around the Galicia coast and saw the results of the lack of oil protection after the Prestige accident, where approximately. 80 000 tonnes of crude oil was released into the sea. Today, 20 000 fishermen are unemployed, and it is quiet in Galicia. It still characterizes society. There are tens of billions of dollars spent cleaning up beaches, but they're empty for tourists. The development of tourism in the coastal area known in Spanish as Costa del Morte, i.e. ‘the coast of death’, is taking place even before the Prestige accident occurred. The aim of good oil protection must be to avoid such accidents occurring along the Norwegian coast, which are even more vulnerable. This message came because a majority on Stortinget wanted it. We would have a long-term strategy for towing boat readiness, which is important in relation to good oil protection. We didn't get that. The notification, on the safe side – maritime safety and oil protection, contains one measure in terms of towing boat preparedness, which is to be assessed during 2005. It was actually this assessment we were waiting for; an assessment of response time, number of tugboats and sailors seen in a context. Unfortunately, we didn't get it. Response time is important. We've said 6-12 hours. Just after the message was submitted, we were at least shown that it took a lot longer. Despite the fact that on one side of the big shot it was said that there were two tugboats on standby in Kristiansand, the accident with «Fjord Champion» showed that they were not there anyway, or there was not enough crew. It took 15 hours before a tugboat came to the Hagarist, so Fjord Champion had been lying and hammering in the rocks for 6 hours already. It's actually totally unsustainable. We can't have such a bad readiness. There is no one here who has said that the state must have the full and the full responsibility. We actually have a salvaging obligation at sea. It is quite clear that we are going to negotiate with the private tug owners about the most effective towing boat preparation, but it is important that we have a goal, that we negotiate on the basis that we want something, and what we want is a better preparedness than what we have today. When a year and a half ago we processed the tug boat gear in North Norway, we looked at the sailing leader and response time and found that approx. 10 hours with the four boats that were in use then, was okay enough. Why you can't say you want 6 to 12 hours of response for the whole coast, it's totally incomprehensible to me. It is a natural goal formulation that should have created a broad consensus about, and it would have meant a tightening in relation to today. Another issue that has been raised, and which I see as very important in meeting the challenges of oil traffic from Russia, are the so-called PSSA areas. PSSA stands for Particular Sensitive Sea Areas – particularly vulnerable sea areas – and is a scheme under the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). It allows countries to apply to the IMO for a special status for vulnerable sea areas enabling them to implement more measures for safe and coastal transport than they can if they do not have such status. We see from the announcement that oil transport will in any case increase from Russia. Russia has three routes to the west. It's the Bosporus Strait through the Black Sea, it's the Baltic Sea and it's the Barents Sea. The Baltic Sea is already the PSSA area, the Bosporus Strait is the PSSA area. Per. the date of the voyage through the Barents Sea and beyond the Lofoten is the only route of navigation which does not have that status. It's a strategically unfavourable position to be in for our oceans. From a more environmental point of view, it may have become that the area that is most vulnerable, at least based on natural values, is the area that does not have the status of a particularly sensitive sea area, namely the Lofoten-Barents Sea. I hope that the government will settle down and get a well-documented proper application from the farm with good measures, sailors far beyond the 12 nautical miles we can get today, preferably 20-30 nautical miles out of the coast, so that we can avoid the worst accidents, that we can reach a seafarist before it reaches the vulnerable areas, especially around the Lofoten. We have to assume that we can get up in an accident situation, and then it's important that the equipment at the depots we have along the coast is of such quality that you can deal with such a situation. With the pace of replacement we have today on the oil protection equipment in our depot, it will take 60 years before it is renewed. It's obvious that it's too long. We need equipment that's at the height, which is of such a nature that it makes use of the day when the accident is out. When you talk about oil protection, there's got to be a lot of talk about risk. The representative Froyn was here saying that this debate could be a little complicated in the public. In the history of Stortinget, there has been a discussion of the risks associated with oil. In a question in 1977 to then Minister of Industry Bjartmar Gjerde, the representative Berit Ås was very concerned about the safety of the North Sea. An English report had stated that it was bad, but there were risks here. I tried to minimize the contents of the report for as long as he could. But Berit Ås didn't give up, and at the end answered a rather specific Bjartmar Girde: ‘But I find it difficult to accept such a calculation as the representative Ås here refers to – regardless of her fright. It reminds me too much of the story of the woman who had heard that every five children born are a Chinese. She had four children from before, waited for the fifth and assumed that the result had to be a Chineseman." Two months later the alarm went to the North Sea. The Bravo accident, the giant blowout on Philips' platform, was a fact. It went that time over a week before the blast stopped. In Dagbladet the title was: A Chineseman born in the North Sea. The representative of Ås was sadly right at the time, and after only two months. We sincerely hope that we will not get right when we are concerned about oil protection along the coast. We hope nothing happens. The representative Froyn had a comment earlier today, and we were about the same thing: should we send this message with these few measures back to the Government? Our conclusion to that was no – not because we thought it was good, but because it is urgent to put in place good, safe measures, so that we don't go to another harvest in meeting, new winter storms in meeting, with a readiness that you can't say with your hand on your heart is good enough. That is why we chose to focus on actions, which is why we chose to be concrete, and therefore we also chose to be more concrete in this communication and to propose more concrete measures than is usual for the Stortinge. We did not want to take the responsibility of meeting a new harvest with a readiness we unfortunately could not say was good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e914	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e917	It is true that the Storing message is more a summary and a summary of the situation and what will be discussed, than a proposal for many measures. But we have chosen to deal with the matter, and I believe the majority also press the matter forward in both the process and the content. For us in the Working Party, it's important that we can't conclude until things are settled. I think we need to distinguish between subjects and politics. Minority, and especially SV, there can be called professional businessmen in matters that are not distributed here by the professional authority in this context. Measures that are prescribed by different minorities – and there is still SV going the farthest – cost large amounts. We have heard of amounts ranging from millions to billions in this context – something about investment, much about annual expenditure. Then I would like to ask: How much does SV cost its different measures? And is the representative Sørensen sure that that's the way to spend the money that makes us get the most maritime security for the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e925	I don't want to hide that I would like you to have come further, based on the specific order that the majority of the Stortinget gave, and then I think it's over a year and a half ago. We haven't received a lot of things from that department for treatment. Then we really expect a little more than what we got today. To the cost question: we increase the Coastal Agency budget by between 150 and 200 million. kr a year, and we have done so throughout our alternative budget, because we have recognised that there is too little money for oil protection. The depots are too poor, the tugboat capacity is too poor, etc. All the control questions we have raised against the Swedish Coast Guard Agency and against the Ministry of Fisheries, underpinning the fact that it would have been sensible to spend money on that very thing. [[President clubs]] Concomitant use
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e932	The representative Sørensen is also trying to give the impression that very little has been done and very little will be done. That's wrong. There are a number of actions in this message for which the Government will have multiple actions that will improve maritime safety and preparedness for years to come. One of these measures is the imposition of sailing leases outside the 12-mileline both in northern Norway, along the west and along the south coast. The representative Sørensen was very busy with the so-called PSSA areas, i.e., particularly vulnerable sea areas. There are issues that are to be assessed across the Ministry of Norway and that will also require consultations with Russian authorities. We fear the same way as we fear the same thing. The fishing team that this will result in strong restrictions on both fishing and oil activities, and is therefore skeptical to pre-conclusion. What is it that the representative Sørensen thinks, in addition to what we can achieve through adequate sailing rentals, that the PSSA area could bring with it as positive? And does it not suggest that the Fish Team, which is more dependent than any of a clean sea, is a strong opponent of such schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e941	The representative Løvik gives me the opportunity to clarify a misunderstanding that unfortunately has spread in some environments, about what a so-called PSSA area under the IMO is. A PSSA area can only regulate matters related to shipping. It is the IMO, the International Maritime Organisation, which deals with shipping. No action may be taken in areas other than this, such as: for fishing or oil operations. This has also been very clearly expressed by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast in reply to question No. 52, where I'm now saying, crystal clear. What can be put into practice by measures in addition to required navigational managers is, among other things: measures that we saw when the Committee was in New Zealand and visited the PSSA area on Great Barrier Reef: warning, enhanced control, double bottom, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e948	Heidi Sørensen described the situation along the Galicia coast, which she called the ‘coast of death’ following the ‘Prestige’ accident: the disappearance of tourists and the disappearance of fishing. When we look at the Norwegian coast, there are many of the same things that will be hit here. Both the west coast and North Norway depend very much on tourism and fishing activities. We're similar in many ways to the Spanish coast in that area, except for the temperature. The message is entitled ‘Safe side — maritime safety and oil protection’. Does the representative Sørensen think that we are on the safe side and that with the measures in the notification we can limit any ‘Prestige’ accident off the Norwegian coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e955	I can't believe we're on the safe side. I see that the majority openly admits that we're not on the safe side. Today, we have heard formulations that say that you wanted to have more money to do what is optimal, or do what is ideal, etc. All of this underpins that we're not on the safe side in terms of oil protection. Let me finish what I was doing instead. Great Barrier Reef is outside Australia – I said it was wrong, we were on a comitology both in New Zealand and Australia – and we saw the measures that were put in place there. Under the PSSA, each country proposes the measures to be implemented, and they have, for example, unobstructed through the reef. It could also be useful to assess in Norway, especially outside the most vulnerable areas. Everything is not bad in the case of Norwegian oil protection. I don't think anyone in the room means that. What we believe, on the other hand, is that it is not good enough and that there is a lack of new measures that hit us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e964	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e967	Maritime safety is important. Maritime transport is an environmentally friendly and safe form of transport, which we want to invest in, but the consequences of any accident can be serious. We've got a strange goal debate here. It cannot be that the target is response time and towing boat capacity. The aim is maritime safety, and the communication that has been presented draws up a number of measures that will lead us towards the goal. We have a zero vision of serious accidents in transport in this country. We have the same zero vision in the maritime sector, and the goal, in my opinion, is to avoid serious accidents in the future. The representative Heidi Sørensen says, ‘we’re worried’. I assume she meant the concerns of the minority. I would say that the concerns are equally strong in the majority. It is enough to refer to the ‘Erika’ loss in 1999 outside France, the loss of ‘Prestige’ outside Spain in 2002, the ‘Rocknes’ loss at Bergen in 2004, and not least the foundation support of ‘Fjord Champion’ outside Søgne, which has put its mark on the work on this notification. Discussions on the extraction of petroleum in the Barents Sea and on oil transport from Russia in coastal transit also give rise to increased focus on maritime safety and preparedness. Veritas has carried out a risk analysis of maritime transport by 2015. Per. Today safety is good, the risk is relatively low along the whole coast, but with increasing transport and oil activity also increasing the risk. The risk of environmental damage in specified geographical areas will increase in the coming years if increased ship traffic does not meet with measures. The Government therefore presents in the Communication an overview of the measures in the field of maritime safety and oil protection that should be followed up in the coming years. It also provides an overview of the work already undertaken in the field of maritime safety and oil protection. It focuses on the prevention of marine casualties, preparedness and crisis management in marine incidents and accidents, as well as research and development in this area. Strong commitment to the competence and training of oil protection systems will be essential in order to achieve the objective of improving maritime safety and enhancing oil protection. It is an important prerequisite for readiness that we have the best expertise in oil protection. Today there is an increasing activity and ongoing cooperation between NordNorwegian Emergency Centre AS and Norway's Fire School. The oil industry has already committed its own resources in NordNorsk Bejörksenter AS. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway's Fire School will be the central player in coastal zone preparedness training, while NorthNorwegian Emergency Centre AS has its competence in marine operations. In this way, this will be a good combination to facilitate thorough and relevant training within the area. The Christian People's Party will underline the importance of preventing groundbreaking and improving the emergence of the fairways. The work of the coastal works on the improvement of fairways, including Brønnøsundleia, Risøyrenna, Svelvikstrom, Drøbaksundet and Telsundet, is very important for maritime safety. The Christian People's Party will intensify the marking of fairways along the coast and continue to work to realise the City Tunnel to improve maritime safety. The Coastal Works shall have overall responsibility for maritime safety along the Norwegian coast, and the Christian People's Party will underline the importance of ensuring a continuous renewal and upgrading of the Coastal Works equipment and the Coastal Works Shipyard. Furthermore, continuous emergency drills are very important. The coastal body itself holds about 30 exercises during the year and otherwise participates in about 10 exercises directed by others. I would also like to stress the importance of working together well on maritime safety with the Defence. The defence’s contribution to monitoring is an important prerequisite for satisfactory sovereignty. It must be called a lucky coincidence that a great rescue exercise, called the Bright Eye, is being conducted in the West Fjord, under the direction of the Defence and the Main Rescue Center. This is where we're supposed to train both to save lives and to prevent an environmental disaster. So we're in the process, and it just had to be missing. It's time for us to practice in the particularly vulnerable areas. The control of ship traffic has already improved significantly in the establishment of AIS – automatic identification system – along the coast. Furthermore, close cooperation with Russia and the Baltic countries has been initiated in order to increase maritime safety and oil protection in general. The traffic centre of North Norway in Vardø will also be an important tool to prevent accidents and environmental disasters along the Norwegian coast. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that applications are submitted to the IMO as soon as possible for the establishment of sailing leases outside the territorial waters of the Vardø-Røst section, along the coast of the West and in Skagerrak. The Christian People's Party agrees to consider whether to apply for PSSA status for the areas outside the Lofoot and demarcated areas in the Barents Sea. Furthermore, in the Christian People's Party, it is important to establish close cooperation between different actors, including private ones, in order to identify the overall resources for a future increase in preparedness. The equipment and competence of oil companies must also play an important role in overall preparedness. The Christian People's Party refers to the Government's escalating plan for depots and equipment, and we are pleased that the main depots will be upgraded as early as 2005. In this context, there is reason to point in particular to the situation of the shipping traffic of both Mongstad and Sture, and it may also be relevant to restore Fedje as a main depot. Speaking of which, the representative Kenneth Svendsen said that there was a proposal in relation to Fedje, which it was just to vote for. I can't see that any such proposal is available. There is only one comment in the vote, one comment that the majority also have. The security of all forms of transport has the highest priority for the Christian People's Party, and the use of resources must always be balanced against the results that can be expected to be achieved. Overall, in the Christian People's Party, we believe that the government's message, with small adjustments to the bulk of the population, meets these conditions. I note that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are promoting proposals for further increased towing boat capacity and specific response time. This requires considerable increased resources, which the Christian People's Party wants to use primarily to improve the fairways and secure the ports along the coast, as well as, of course, following the escalation plan contained in the notification. It is amazing when the Progress Party cuts heavily in the annual budget for the Coastal Plant, but at the same time will impose the same additional expenditure on maritime safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e997	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1000	It is true that there is no proposal for Fedje on the table. It's a note that's not a work order for the ministry. If Sahl had accepted a proposal, and it had a majority, it would have been a work order, and we would have been on it. So Sahl does a number of zero vision in the transport sector. It's getting ridiculous. We have a zero vision that's used in party speeches, but it's not shown in the appropriations. On the roadside, the drivers will pay the costs. So Sahl says that we have a zero vision also in terms of ship traffic. This is clearly where private tugboat companies are to pay the costs. So the state doesn't have to pay. Sahl is worried, and I'm also concerned about the thinking of Sahl and the government in this field. So you use the zero vision in party speeches, but you don't take financial responsibility. The question is, isn't it time for the government to take a financial responsibility in this area to achieve the zero vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1009	As I underlined in my post, we also have a comment on Fedje, and then we allow the government to assess how to solve the total problem around the depots along the coast. Then to the appropriations. I think the representative Kenneth Svendsen is reasonably bold when he refers to our appropriations when he himself has cut heavy sums in the Coastal Works area. This means that the government parties have more money per person. today than the Party of Progress to apply to oil protection. So to private companies. Yes, contracts must be concluded with private companies. Of course, they will be paid for the job they have done. It surprises me that the representative Kenneth Svendsen is so opposed to the conclusion of agreements with private companies, when privatisation is a main objective of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1018	Jan Sahl said in his post that response time and tug capacity are not the only factor that matters to maritime safety. We agree. There are, of course, a number of measures on which there is broad agreement in the Committee, but we have emphasised here today and in the setting that towing boat capacity and response time are one of the most important carriers in the future construction of preparedness. Here the bulk of the population refuses, in my opinion, to take the responsibility of determining the response time, to determine what will be the basis for the build-up of the standby, how many tugs there should be along the Norwegian coast. That's the refusal we're going to attack. When the Christian People's Party does not want to be aware that the normal time should be 6 hours and a maximum of 12 hours, my question about the Christian People's Party and Sahl have made up some reasoning about what is contained in the term 'good enough', which the Christian People's Party has put itself behind. What's good enough response time when 6 hours isn't? Is it 8 hours, 10 hours, or is it 12 hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1026	My starting point here was to make response time and tug capacity into a main goal when discussing safety along the coast. The main objective must be to avoid accidents, and then to facilitate the capacity needed to avoid accidents. I assume that the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen is also aware that it costs money to have a lot of tugboats lying on standby, with government crews on board, compared to having agreements with different companies along the coast. What's going to be the exact response time, I don't think we as politicians are the right ones to decide. I think we're going to let the professionals come up with their opinion on that. Then you have to adapt the equipment to the response time you think you need.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1035	The last one was a new twist! So we have to wait for the professionals to set a response time. But didn't we give the assignment to come back with a plan for towing boat readiness in North Norway to the professionals a year and a half ago? And didn't we discuss response time in this room a year and a half ago? I believe this is about taking responsibility now and setting a goal. There is no doubt about where the technical council is in relation to the response time. However, I have another question for the Christian People's Party, which has a past as an environmental party: why this refusal to make the Lofoten and the Barents Sea a PSSA region under the IMO? Does the representative Sahl think it is lucky that the Lofoten and the Barents Sea are the only western route from Russia that does not have such a status today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1044	It is underlined in the reports we have received that in the future, in terms of maritime safety, there is a situation that is under development. Determining an arrangement that will apply from day one to day forward towards the increased transport we get along the coast by 2015, I think it is somewhat daring. That is why, along with the majority, we have said that we want a response time assessed on the basis of the risk at all times. It may be 6 to 12 hours, but we're leaving to the professionals to determine a capacity on the rescue side that's strong enough to avoid future coastal accidents. In the case of PSSA, we have also said that we ask the Government to consider applying for PSSA, among other things. for the distance outside the Lofoten, and likely that is what will be the result. So there's no SV and the Christian People's Party so very disagreeable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1051	Ship traffic along the Norwegian coast has increased sharply in recent years, and an increase is also expected in time. As we know, the largest increase is likely to be along the coast of Troms and Finnmark due to increases in future transit transport of Russian oil from North-West Russia and gas transport from the LNG facility at Melkøya at Hammerfest. Such a traffic image is today the greatest environmental risk in the West and Oslo. In the future, the risk will increase along the coast of Troms and Finnmark. In particular, measures to reduce environmental risks should be put in place in the West and along the coast of Troms and Finnmark. Of course, the traffic in Oslofjord and the transport of oil in Skagerrak must also be taken into account. St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005, on the safe side – maritime safety and oil protection, is an important communication. Priority should be given to safety at sea and safety against impurities. If we don't close, it costs society a lot of money in terms of business education and loss. A large proportion of coastal communities depend on what is produced in the sea and in coastal areas. It is therefore crucial that we facilitate the prevention of accidents, and that we have a readiness with the necessary resources that can be deployed so that the consequences will not be too great in the event of an accident. The message we have received contains a good status for the situation today and the challenges ahead. In the case of measures, there is a large number of indications that coordination measures should be taken, that existing schemes should be reviewed or reconsidered, or that distribution work is in progress, and that the Government will return to this with a report. In this area, I thought the message was a little too weak. In any case, it is important to stress that the evaluations and distribution work being carried out, or to be done, do not take too long. Important measures are the labelling and remedying of the fairways. This may prevent landslides and facilitate the emergence of existing fairways. But it is no less important to consider sailing leases outside the territorial waters. If the accident is first out, it is decisive to manage different situations that the preparedness, equipment and training of the crew is justified. I am pleased that the whole committee says in a comment that today's oil protection preparedness is not sufficient to meet tomorrow's challenges. Therefore, it is necessary to look at several elements of the preparedness. If a boat has entered the sea at risk of a breakdown, a standby is necessary to prevent such a breakdown. Free tug capacity can then be entirely decisive. In order to achieve the best possible tug capacity, it must be assumed that future preparedness is a combination of public and private preparedness. In order to make use of available capacity, binding agreements with private operators along the coast may be essential. As important as having access to tug capacity is a defensive response time. The center party thinks a normal response time should be 6 hours, and a maximum of 12 hours, depending on the sailing routes along the coast. Together with the Progress Party and SV, the Centre Party will present proposals to this effect. The message will display an upgrade of the coastal oil coverpot. The center party believes that there is a need for both a reinforcement and an upgrade of the depot. Together with the Progress Party and SV, the Centre Party asks for a concrete plan for such upgrade and reinforcement. However, some immediate measures should be implemented as quickly as possible. Some time ago, the main depot in Fedje was reduced to a middle depot. To make it easier to postpone sea areas, a main depot was built in Florø at the same time. The main depot in Florø is necessary, but together with the Progress Party and SV ask the Central Party of the Government to facilitate the construction of the depot in Fedje to a main depot. Finally, a few words about Loran-C. It is not yet conclusive whether Loran-C can become a so-called back-up system in a future European satellite navigation system. The centre party believes that it is important that the competence of the Norwegian Loran-C stations is maintained until this is finally clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1079	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1082	The representative Ringstad is also trying to give the impression that very little has happened, and that very little will happen. I want to list some of the things that everything is done: The territorial waters are extended from four to 12 nautical miles. An out-of-coastal sailing lease has been introduced.A system for receiving AIS signal - Automatic Identification System has been established.It is agreed to establish a traffic centre for North Norway.A closer cooperation has been established with Russia on maritime safety and oil protection. Ten new intermediate depots of coastal oil protection equipment have been established. In addition, it is proposed to establish emergency discharge equipment for bunker oil and a depot for the South and Austland in addition to the depot for emergency discharge equipment for cargo oil at Stavanger, Ålesund, Bodø and Hammerfest, upgrading the main depot, etc., and setting up sailing rentals, which are already mentioned. Isn't this measure already better and will improve the readiness we have to meet these problems with?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1116	I am very happy that there is a group committee that is behind a very large part of the setting. I've never hidden the fact that it's positive that the committee is united about a lot of comments. Then we separate layers in some areas. That's to overdramatize, what Petter Løvik does when he calculates what's been done. As he also said, a part has to be evaluated, a part has to be done. What I said in my post was also that there are many of the measures that need to be reviewed and reconsidered. There is a work to be done and to be started. My wish is that this will be done as quickly as possible. So the Center Party in a couple of areas has gone a little further than the multiple has done. It goes on towboat capacity, and what I think is absolutely decisive. When the crash is about to happen, there are not many other actions that can replace the tug-boat capacity. When an accident has occurred, it is absolutely crucial that we have enough depots, and that we have an equipment that is adequate to reduce the damage most effectively. So I think that the committee is regrouping a lot. A minority have gone a little further in some areas and have been a little more concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1130	I'm glad that the Center Party is with us, which unfortunately belongs to the minority, on important issues in connection with this paper. Let me ask the representative Ringstad if she does not share my observation regarding what the representative Løvik just said – he framed a series of actions that have been taken and which I believe this room has debated earlier. Is it not true that the specific features of this Communication are that measures other than those already in place are almost totally absent or have the words ‘to be further assessed’?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1137	As I also said in my first post, it was just on that page that I think the message is a little weak. I went through the late last night and looked at the statements about actions under the different chapters and sections – there was a lot of ‘it has to be reviewed’, ‘it has to be reviewed’ and ‘one has to provide a more brief description of the work that has been done’. Of course it's done a lot of things, and it should just be missing! With the developments we've had on the traffic along the coast, there's just no way anything's going on. My concern is that the measures that we know must come, and what needs to be reconsidered and re-evaluated, must not take too long. But I also see – we asked for this message sixteen years ago – that getting away from all the reassessment work could be difficult when the message arrived. I am very happy that the message came. I would love to have come even a little further when it comes to the concrete measures. I believe that we are a bit on the way, and therefore I also said that what is coming in the message is positive. But I wanted her to be a little more specific at some point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1144	The majority and the minority share the view that we need to strengthen the towing boat readiness. Where we separate layers, it's the question of how to define the need. The minority believes that it can only be defined in the number of hours it takes to reach the exposed person, and six hours is a key number. But there's a problem here. When it comes to combining public liability, i.e. state responsibility for a part of the standby, and the private tug-boat stand, it is not the case that we have to have an agreement with private tug-boat owners that the boats should be at berth and at all times be in readiness in the event of an accident. We're going to make agreements with these owners so that they can be available in the shortest possible time in situations where we need their resources. And in that context, I wonder how we can be sure that this can be solved by six hours in the contract with the private without significant costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1152	We who live along the coast and see both the inner and the outer ladder, may not see the routes that go far away. We know that a response time of six hours might be too long. Should the accident occur in the inner water, an hour, even half an hour, may be too long to respond. So we never get an optimal solution, no matter how many tugboats we have along the coast. But we have to be able to have a goal: six hours, yes, there can be many areas along the coast from being polluted. So many people are drawing economies into this. Yes, it's clear, to be in front, to be leading was when it comes to oil protection, must necessarily cost a little. But what wouldn't a really big accident cost if the accident were to be out? We know that then maybe it's not about tens of millions of dollars, maybe not hundreds of millions either, but maybe a lot, a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1159	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1162	I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Mr Svendsen, for the position taken by the Committee on Transport with the striking sub-title on the safe side – maritime safety and oil protection. The approach is a major breakthrough in coastal safety. Just putting a real focus on coastal safety is a major breakthrough. This thing has, like other things, its history. The coastal party took over this matter – we were not called the Coastal Party at the time, we were called Tverrpolitan People's Election, but it was now the same man who stood here – in connection with the disaster of «John R», which happened in North Norway. It is part of the story that I left with a question of coastal safety just in front of the co-representative Svein Ludvigsen, who is now Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. I'm sure he remembers it. Then the question of coastal safety was examined, and we found out that this responsibility was allocated to twelve departments. The possibility of discharge in the event of a disaster was too much present. The responsibility is now placed with the Minister for Fisheries and Coast Svein Ludvigsen. The setting has a lot of good work. Nevertheless, it is only a beginning — not only because the measures are not good enough, but also because the challenges are growing day by day, with an ever-growing oil transport from the north and north-west Russia and gas transport from Finnmark and Russia down the Norwegian coast. Norway has a long coast, and it takes at least three days to sail that coast from end to end. If one full vessel passes one place, it means that there are three full vessels en route down, and there are three empty vessels en route on the other road. So there's six such vessels off this coast. Of course, the challenges are greatest in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, although the environmental risk is expected to be greatest in Oslofjord and in the West. I don't fully agree with that, because if it gets lost, the coast and the islands will be asphalted – with soft asphalt. Here it's about hundreds of thousands of tons being divided into islands and islands, and I think the environmental disaster is going to be huge. It is noted that it is still permitted for single hull tankers to carry oil downwards along the coast. We hope that there will be no accidents until there will be a total ban in 2010. This approach focuses on preventive maritime safety measures, where the main focus is on Norway as a coastal state. And both I and the committee add that we have the world's most beautiful fish saucer. At each state budget and each revised national budget, the Coastal Party has been committed to expanding and modernising the fairways and sailing routes. We have not yet had a major impact on all of our issues in this area. It is to hope that this setting will give others the opportunity to see the importance of good and safe renting and sailing. It is necessary to make use of the coastal areas already designated by the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast. And then the connection between external and internal rental is very important. You have to get a tanker into the beach site to make use of it. Then you have to have a smile! Without a lease, we can't drag that vessel in. So it's okay with beaching sites, but we have to be able to get the boats there! The lack of oil protection has led to the extension of the territorial boundary and the fairway for tankers within the territorial border. We want the fairways further out. It's also important that the oil bilge is developed, and that that's enough of them. I think especially of the heavy lenses. It's important that we get a strong towing boat capacity along the coast. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to enter into dialogue and agreements with private actors. I would also like to mention that we have a special oil protection vessel – «Stril Surveyor» – I have been on that boat – that can take heavy lenses. This vessel has been chartered by Statoil. The lift-up gear has a lightboat hanging in the davits – so it has to pull oil lenses out of the supply boat. It's 150 hp at one end and 15 000 hp at the other end. That must be wrong! So here's a lot to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1188	I have some comments on this matter, which is a very important matter for the Left. For the Left, the precautionary principle is that the most important principles of environmental policy. Sea safety and oil protection are highly concerned with being at the forefront. The precautionary principle must govern how we control and plan our preparedness. The best way to prevent accidents is, of course, to facilitate the avoidance of accidents. In recent years, one has invested large amounts of money in the further development of traffic centres and the development of modern technologies, such as Automatic Identification Systems. In addition, sailing routes have been moved to a reasonable distance from land. But we can never secure 100 pst. against accidents. On behalf of the Left, I have pointed out on several occasions that there are many departments responsible for various aspects of safety and preparedness at sea. During a debate in the previous period, I believe, we discussed whether there were seven or nine departments involved in some sort of preparedness. I am therefore pleased that the Government has set up an inter-ministerial working group to review the responsibility for these administrative tasks. A good preparedness requires clear answers to the person who is responsible for what happened when an accident occurred. Good preparedness also requires good cooperation between the various departments, which have a job to do, whether it is to ensure that an accident does not happen or the responsibility when the accident has first occurred. Our readiness, whether on land or at sea, has always been built on the fact that private also stands up. The state is responsible, the municipalities are responsible, and private people are responsible for setting up and being in advance. When one comes from Hordaland, it's clear that one is most busy in readiness here, but the situation in my county is probably not unique. Hordaland has Kollsnes and Mongstad. In both places, a private emergency response organisation has clear responsibilities. However, the responsibility is mainly related to the proximity of the plant itself. Of course, operators want accidents not to happen, and have very high standards of material and preparedness. If the public is to cooperate closely with private individuals in the exploitation of material and competences, this requires close cooperation where one can use the strength and competence of each other. The equipment must then be dimensioned in such a way that it fits together. It has been this uncertainty – whether one user has the competence of another – that has caused a great deal of unrest in Hordaland when it comes to the closure of a depot in Fedje. We can't have a readiness where we're based on private actors, who have a limited responsibility. When the government is about to put forward a case of restoring Fedje as a private main depot, I hope that one can get a good cooperation between public and private preparedness, where one can use each other's strength. Everyone must feel safe about who is responsible. I'm from a municipality that's experienced the seashore being infested with oil spills. This was over ten years ago. Clean-up work took many months. I sincerely hope that the equipment you use today is much more modern and much more effective than the one you used then. Research and development in order to ensure the best equipment must therefore be given a high priority. In this country, we have a maritime tradition that has given us a very good environment of competence when it comes to the development of navigation equipment to ensure safe transport and when it comes to emergency equipment. But we see that there have been major accidents along our coast as well, and we see that the collection equipment that a user uses may not be of the best quality. Then I would like to challenge the Council of State to go in and look at what is available in equipment. Does the country purchase the best equipment? And how can a few agreements with private operators use the best and most efficient equipment available? I have asked a question-time question to the Council of State, about ports of refuge and coastal settlements, and the fact that municipalities are involved in their location. I see that the Socialist Left Party has a comment on this. The council promised me in Question Time that he would take a look at this, of course. I feel confident that there is a process that will develop. Finally, of course, we support all the comments of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1221	Of course, we are pleased that the Left is concerned that there should be a quality of the equipment in the oil warehousing pots. But when the situation today is such that the rate of replacement is so low that it will take 60 years before it is renewed, it goes without saying that it is quite difficult to believe that we are going to be close to using the best available technology in these depots, as they are today. But my question to the Left really goes on at the time the representative started his speech saying, that leading the precautionary principle, which says that doubt should benefit nature, is a guiding principle for the Left. Then it is a little strange that the message as such does not even contain the expression. When it comes to making target formulations, the majority operate with the following, which must be quite far from my understanding of the precautionary principle: ‘... the objective must be a good and offensive preparedness in line with the natural requirements of the oil transport increase that will take place along the coast in the coming years’.» Is this the Left's definition of the precautionary principle for oil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1233	I admit that I have not read the whole staging message, so I do not know if the expression ‘for the commodity principle’ is there. But at least I feel that this government is delivering on standby, delivering on the principle of ‘pre- var’ in environmental policy. Many of the actions undertaken in the context of preparedness and maritime safety are based on the precautionary principle. So I might learn to use this and write this, but it's not so important if he's stupidly saying it or writing it, as long as he's acting after it. I actually feel that in this he does. So it's okay: I'm registering that a group of committees agrees that it takes too long to replace our equipment. But I think that if we start coordinating our resources and what the inter-ministerial working group is looking at, we might be able to make much better use of the private and state resources so that one can replace the equipment earlier and get the best equipment we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1242	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1245	I am very pleased that the Committee, in some cases the majority of the Committee, broadly endorses the Government's description, conclusions and proposals. It is a good starting point for further efforts in the future to meet increased risk with relevant preparedness measures, that we agree that Norway currently has a high level of safety and a safe coastal preparedness. On the other hand, the Committee and the Government agree that tomorrow’s preparedness should be subject to continuous assessment, both in relation to changes in risk profile, experience, developments in emergency technology and economic capacity. As you can see, it is correct, as Mr Hoddevik said, that there is an en route message. Traffic has been increasing over time, particularly in the transport of oil from North-West Russia and the Baltic Sea. It is therefore essential that we look ahead and dimension the measures both in the south and in the north as the changes in the risk profile take place, and the risks include: related to the uncertainty about how much, and when, oil transport from Russia is increasing. Because we must not underestimate the consequences of coastal accidents in terms of threats to the environment, such as fishing resources, bird life and nature in general: the government does not, nor does the Storting. Therefore, on the basis of careful risk analysis, the Government has presented a stepping-up plan for further action in the field of prevention and action-oriented oil protection preparedness. I agree with the representative Ringstad that much has been done, and more could have been clarified or implemented if the message had arrived later. But I remember that the requirement was that we deliver the message in the autumn. We asked to have a little more time, to do so in January. I think it is important that the message came when it came, so we have to take it inward that we are not at the end of the road with a message – but it is pointing forward. I agree with the Stortinges assessment, as it is presented in the cancellation, that an insurance premium must be paid in order to limit as far as possible the consequences of an accident. I therefore fully agree that the most important thing is to prevent. That means we have to balance the relationship between costs and risks at sea. Response time is a critical factor in this context. In this way, it is satisfactory that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the main points of the Government's plan of stepping up maritime safety and oil protection. It is also satisfactory to record that the Committee determines that preparedness is an interaction between public authorities and private actors and that good coordination between actors is particularly important. The representative Froyn had wise considerations about the organisation of preparedness as a significant contribution to security – and I share those points of view. In this context, I also point out that the Government has set up an inter-ministerial working group to review the responsibilities of maritime safety management and to establish a contact forum for coastal security and preparedness. The size will be properly informed about the outcome. The same is true with regard to the tug capacity, and I share the Committee's views on dialogue with private tug carriers, and in the light of the experience with «Fjord Champion», we have started work to re-evaluate the overall tug capacity, especially in South Norway. In this context, I refer to the progress plans described in the Storing Communication and in a letter to the Committee for the further establishment of more heads of navigation outside the territorial waters off the Norwegian coast and the PSSA, Particularly Sensitive Sea Area, and our handling of these matters in accordance with international rules under the IMO, the International Maritime Organization. The assessment of the PSSA must also be seen in the context of the Government’s work on the development of a Barents Sea Management Plan. Of course, I will also follow up on the Committee's comments on the possibilities of monitoring the air, including the use of aircraft, and whether that is what I want to inform the Storting. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that both the defence's Orion aircraft, civil aviation and other observations are reported on the basis of established procedures. The coastal facility also disposes of an aircraft with special equipment and with 24 hours of standby. It's on the wings 700 hours per. years, and has demonstrated its effectiveness, inter alia: in the case of the Prestige accident. Satellite monitoring is also under assessment after a trial period. I am very pleased that the Committee expresses its support for the fact that the Coastal Plant is the central player in the preparedness process. Through several successful oil protection operations, the Coast Guard has proved to be a very professional operator with a high level of preparedness and professional implementation. Actions are evaluated, and exercises are kept regularly. I want to commend the Coastal Works and say that they have a considerable responsibility for preventing accidents in incidents that have occurred along the coast, and that it is related to the fact that we have a very competent staff working on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1280	Oil protection and maritime safety is a major national policy issue for Norway. It's essential decisions we're going to make today, and we're going to make a significant lead on what decisions to make in the future. That's why it's important that we sort of get to grips with what's the most important priority areas, which can create the security that people along the coast need, that we do things right, and that we do such things that we get the best we can do in the event of an accident. That's why an impatient majority is behind these remarks that are in the position. And my question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State take it seriously, take it into the department and ensure that the feedback that the Stortinget is now asking for is kept going, so that we can get a continuous improvement in oil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1286	I fully agree that this is a major political issue. These are important decisions we are making today. I am very pleased that we have such a broad majority behind the conclusions, and that it represents an impatience, an impatience which is also in the department. That is why we have had a lot of pressure on this, and that is why, as the committee chairman, Petter Løvik, we have referred to a long list of actions that have been taken. The Coast Guard was given extended responsibility, and they have satisfactorily solved the task. I can assure you that we are going to follow up the remarks made by the majority. We are going to reflect in the budget and in other contexts the impatience and accountability expressed in the Storting through this. In fact, I think that the issues that have been discussed today, not least with response time, show that accountability is also linked to financial appropriations. We cannot ask for both shorter response times and cut budgets at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1293	The difference between the majority here and the minority is the word ‘action’. It is not in the message that indicates that you intend to do business, but simply consider further. In the context of the Fjord Champion accident, it appeared that there was a lack of towing boat capacity. The document states that there was significant towing capacity in this area. The representative Jan Sahl said, although I cannot find it in the notes, that binding agreements were to be concluded with private companies on towing boat capacity coverage across the coast. My question is, when can we expect these binding agreements to be in place, so that we have a towing boat capacity along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1302	Firstly, we have a tug capacity and a towboat stand along the coast. This government has taken a state emergency action by both investigating and putting in place three tugboats in North Norway in the winter half of the year because there is no private offer available in other parts of the country. Oil companies and others operating along the coast, with different activities, are subject to differing preparedness. In the north, for example, where there is a low capacity, the risk analyses have shown that we should have four boats. One boat is put at the disposal of what is going on in the fields Njord, Norne and Åsgard. So it's ready all over the country. We have started a work now, not least in the light of the observations we made after the Fjord Champion. We are going through this again, and we will, as I have notified, come back to Stortinget when that work is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1309	There are obviously no limits to how many times you can give the same answer and say that now we've started a review, now we're going to evaluate. Two months before the Fjord Champion disaster, we received the message that we are now going to start an assessment of the towing boat capacity. Then the council here is standing on the pulpit and saying that after the Fjord Champion has started a new review of the tugboat capacity! Even when we stood here a year and a half ago and discussed it in the context of the budget, the Council of State was to initiate a review and an assessment. We have been given more explanations as well. Jan Sahl said that this with response time we have to ask the professionals about. Governments have had a year and a half to ask professionals what we should have of response time. I think he has received some answers, but I think he himself explained why he has not provided them – it costs a few kroner, and he is not willing to pay that insurance premium. Is that the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1314	I agree with those who have said that it will be too easy just to be concerned with the response time without taking inwards that we have extended the territorial limit, it will be too easy to say that we are not working. But we depend on the IMO's approval to establish more sailing leaders both in the northern regions, off the territorial waters and along the coast downwards. The PSSA is also dependent on an IMO approval. So it's too easy to say that now Norway's government has to expand. We have to go with an international acceptance. Secondly, I have to say that the minority is now talking about a response time of all down to six hours – without invading the economic realities. Well, SV can say that they have proposed increasing the allocations to the Coastal Plant by 150 million. kr, and the Progress Party has cut, but estimates show that a response time of six hours will cost billions. Then we need to balance as the risk increases – because the risk is not constant – and assess how we get the most certainty for each krona. That work is continuous.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1321	A central theme of today’s debate also has our theme in the line change with the state council no, simply towing boat capacity and towing boat readiness. The council answered a question about exactly this and said that we have tug capacity and coastal preparedness. He concentrated a lot on North Norway and preparedness there. I agree with a sentence contained in the message, i.e.: ‘Sufficient towing capacity is a central component of the standby.’;» I totally agree with that. But then there's another sentence that I want to quote: ‘In the case of South Norway, this standby is maintained in the presence of available private tug capacity.’ I assume that this was written before the accident with Fjord Champion, because it turned out that even if we knew that there were tugboats in the vicinity, they were not available. I would like to have the Council's comment. Is it the case that we rely too much on those tugboats that are available by private people, and with which we do not have an agreement, so that we have to put a big question mark on whether the tug capacity is sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1338	The question from Ringstad makes me uncertain whether it is so to understand that the centre party now believes that we should have 100 pst. Prepared, financed and operated by the State. It is a recognised principle that we have a division of labour, that we have built the preparedness in the private sector as well. The experience of the oil industry in the West – that is where we have the absolute greatest risk – is that, with the private and public preparedness, which involves not just tugboats, but depots, sailing managers, monitoring, etc., we have prevented accidents. I admit – I have said it from this pulpit before – that we should have wanted to have managed the «Fjord Champion» faster. Many circumstances contributed to it taking as long as it did. But the positive thing is that it wasn't spilled a drop of oil. Experience has so far shown that the interaction between public and private preparedness – which is the responsibility of the public – has prevented major accidents. We must not forget that in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1347	A year and a half ago, when we discussed the towing boat capacity on the route Røst–Russian border, it was found that there was an average response time of approx. 10 hours, i.e. within what the minority believes we should have as a target for the whole coast today, a response time of normally 6 – a maximum of 12 – hours. It is incomprehensible to me that we can have this response time as a goal for North Norway, where we almost do not have private capacity. That goal is impossible to have for the whole coast, where we actually have more of private tug capacity. The department replied that such a tugboat capacity would cost a couple of hundred million kroner. The Council of State has increased the sum quite considerably during the debate. I guess we could say that he's gone three zero's to this number. Is that right – or is it wrong – what the department has previously said to the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1354	Let me first point out that we have notified the Stortinget that it will be properly submitted to a review of the tug capacity both in the south and in the north – not least in relation to the increased risk in some areas, and not least because of the increased oil-ship traffic, if it becomes as large as we have foreseen. I have to say that this with numbers is often difficult, and we got an example of that. So I haven't done the trick of hitting any extra zeros. But if we were to take the Northern Norwegian response time into account -- ten hours plus two hours to prepare, i.e. 12 hours – first, it would require six tugs spread throughout the country. If we were just going to handle boats with 20,000 tons deadweight, it's costing approx. One and a half billion dollars. But if we're going to have a response time associated with handling 300,000 tons, we're talking about far greater amounts – about billions of dollars. Then we're into what I think Froyn described well in his post, that it's too easy to talk about response time – and only that. This has to be seen in relation to the risk picture and the vessels that run along the coast and what other measures are being taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1361	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1364	The councils are talking about not spilling a drop of oil from the Fjord Champion. I think he can thank other forces than the government for not doing so. The Labour Party believes that Norway should be a leading country in environmental policy. In my opinion, the government's submitted communication on maritime safety bears the mark of few ambitions, and it does not seem well-worked. There may not be anything new about this government, but I am pleased that the communication has improved after the discussion in the Committee on Transport. Today, we are debating a position in which a number of good and necessary measures have been taken to improve both maritime safety and protection against coastal oil disasters. It's important. Our sea is a huge resource. Fisheries have been crucial for the settlement of the first humans into the Norwegian coastal communities, and the fishing industry is still the backbone of our coastal community. The sea has also given us enormous wealth through oil and gas resources, and it has brought Norway into a special position within the European economy. But while the sea has given us enormous wealth, the man-made activities are also part of imposing pressures on the sea. In this way, we are facing challenges where we need to be able to take care of both the environment and the wealth that lies in the sea. With normal operation, ships release a number of pollutants at sea and at air level, e.g.: oil, greenhouse gases, sulphur and nitrogen. In order to reduce shipping emissions and make maritime transport an even more environmentally friendly mode of transport, we constantly need to develop new environmental technologies and impose stringent requirements. The sea is not least a major transport route and has laid the foundations for shipping and shipbuilding. I hope the sea also in the future is going to be an important route of transportation. For the Workers' Party, the aim is to get more of the freight from road to sea, because it is more environmentally friendly. At the same time, we have to get shipping from oil to gas, because it is more environmentally friendly. We know, as I said, that increased traffic in ships also leads to increased environmental risks. The working party believes that the best way to prevent pollution and damage to the environment is to facilitate the absence of environmentally harmful accidents. The time of pollution degradation is longer in the cold climate here in the north than in countries with warmer climates. Norway also has a rich bird and animal life that is extremely vulnerable. We therefore have a special responsibility to ensure that accidents do not occur. However, it is equally important that large resources are put in place to avoid excessive consequences when accidents occur. The tanker «Fjord Champion» landed in the Search Garden after standing in fire and drifting around in the vulnerable archipelago for more than eight hours. At the same time there was a tugboat at the dock in Kristiansand, but it was not possible to get a crew for it. Therefore, it could not be used for the loss of «Fjord Champion» and thus creamed the ship in the archipelago outside Search. After this accident, I asked the Minister for the Environment a question, which he chose to let the Minister for Fisheries answer, about what assessments the Government had made in relation to the increased risk of natural disasters in relation to ships operating our vulnerable coast. I asked him if the preparedness in this case was too poor. It was the government council that said he was going to evaluate. The Minister for Fisheries referred to the growing communication on maritime safety and pointed out that safety is good and that the environmental risk associated with maritime transport is relatively low along the coast. I think, as I said, the government's message was not good initially. But I am pleased that today's Workers' Party is helping to ensure an offensive commitment to preparedness along our coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1388	It is important that we are on the safe side when it comes to marine preparedness. We have a long-distance coastline, and along this coast we see an ever-increasing traffic in ships. Maritime transport is basically a safe and environmentally friendly mode of transport, but should the accident be out, it may have unparalleled consequences if we do not have a good enough preparedness. This message shows that this government is taking security seriously. Anyway, we have to look in the eyes at 100 pst. readiness is difficult to obtain, including: because the evolution of the sea is increasing, and we will face ever new challenges. It is therefore important to follow these developments closely. This development and the main content of the message have made an excellent comment on my Hoddevik batch trap. I want to focus on what's closest to my heart in this matter, and that's the South Coast. We know that the South Coast is one of the most trafficked routes along our coast. Much of what is transported is dangerous and polluting loads, such as: gas and oil. A few months ago, we had a breakdown. It happened right outside my living room window. It was the Fjord Champion who havarte. When I sat there and followed along, I thanked the higher powers for not ending a disaster. Fortunately, the weather was good, and it went well with both the crew and the environment. But it was so close, so close to a disaster. In connection with the rescue operation, we saw that the preparedness did not work well enough. In retrospect, I have heard that it looked as if there was no towing boat capacity. Willingness was also bad. That is why I am very pleased with the work undertaken by the Coastal Administration. A comprehensive effort is being made to identify available towing power across the coast. This mapping shall form the basis for proposals for solutions for the future State emergency plan. The mapping shall be seen in the context of the overall preparedness established along the coast by different actors, including private actors. In the case of Sørlandskysten, and Kristiansand in particular, which has one of our national ports, we have to be sure here that it is a good tug capacity and that it will be a tugboat stand. This can happen, as I said earlier, in collaboration with private actors, because we want to be on the safe side. Navigation links will be put in place on the South coast, and the Committee asks the Government to implement this as soon as possible. This has been incredibly well received there, both in the trade unions and among the residents. By getting ship traffic further out of the country, we have a better chance of dealing with accidents, oil spills, etc. It will also give us better time to get the necessary preparedness in place. I really look forward to having this sailing trail realised. Standby means prevention to me. It gives me confidence that if something happens at sea, we'll manage it. It's about people's everyday lives, it's about taking care of our unique nature. Finally, this message is a good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1409	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1412	Fortunately, we in Norway have been spared the huge oil spills after shipwrecks, but we know from other parts of the world that such accidents can have enormous consequences, both for the environment and in relation to clean-up costs. Although the size has been lower, in Norway too, we have had some turbulence in recent years, some of which have had some major local damage. One such example is the Rocknes accident. It has also been a lot of close-ups, the last time we had the event outside the South Coast that several have mentioned today. It must be allowed to point out that the experience with these accidents has been thought-provoking. The Rocknes accident found that there were very many bodies responsible for maritime safety work and that coordination between them was inadequate. The fact that a boat in fire can run for hours along the south coast without being prevented from reaching land, as we experienced with the 'Fiord Champion' just a few months ago, also indicates a lack of preparedness. It is positive that oil conservation is now concentrated in one establishment, but there are still several departments and offices responsible and responsible for the prevention of marine accidents. Experience so far shows that the different etats have not worked well enough together. Quite a year ago, on 18 May last year, I had an interview with the Council of State on what is the theme of the message today. At that time it was promised that one would go through, among other things. The ‘Rocknes’ uluk and try to learn from it, especially in relation to coordination. I have to say, I'm not calm. I feel that one is still taking too lightly the situation that there are many different instances that have a responsibility. This should have been even better coordinated, and it should have had several common exercises. I hope the minister can confirm today that he will continue to work on this. Of course, the danger of accidents increases with increasing traffic, and we know that traffic growth is strong in Norway, especially due to activity in the north and in Russia. It's important that we have a high level of preparedness attached to it. It is that oil production appears to be less harmful to the environment than oil transport, in fact it increases the readiness to produce. Therefore, there is evidence that increased activity in the north will also increase preparedness in relation to oil spills. It is also the case that we have a large transport of oil in and out of the Norwegian coast, especially in North Hordland. There have been great concerns about the liquidation of the Fedje depot. I'm glad that a group committee is now busy with this question. The deposit in Fedje must be restored as soon as possible, and I also expect that this will be the result of the Committee's configuration today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1427	I guess we're approaching the end of the debate. I take the floor to clarify a matter that was mentioned earlier in the debate by the representative of the Bjørgov Froyn. He pointed out that the signatory to the NRK Nordland should have stated that the bulk of the population contributes to a weakening of oil protection by not agreeing to a response time. It's a wrong representation of what I actually said. My claim was at the time and is now that the bulk of the population contributes to weakening the possibility of building up a good enough preparedness in the future by not wanting to join in and assume a minimum response time. There are many explanations and reasons why you do not want to be present today. Some have gone into economic conditions — and that’s what’s at the heart of the main explanation — while others have gone into the fact that it’s not a political question but a professional question to decide how long the response time should be. I totally disagree. The size has adopted up to several contingency plans in the health sector, for example: Ambulance plans – car ambulance plans, air ambulance plans. What is central to the organisation, which is very important, is the response time. How long should the response time be, in densely populated areas, in the districts? Response time is the very foundation of the plans. Here, of course, the Storting takes responsibility and determines it through decisions and majority comments. This is comparable to what we are dealing with today, the emergency response along the coast and the construction of the towing boat capacity. It is clear that the response time here is crucial for how many tugboats there will be along the coast and what the costs will be. So claiming or claiming that the response time is not a political question, but a professional question, is depriving itself of responsibility. It's to misunderstand the reality, that we're facing a matter where we have a political question about what dimensions we're going to have for preparedness. Therefore, once again, it is disappointing that the majority will not be able to give clear guidance signals to the Ministry, to the Minister for Fisheries, on how to build up preparedness. And it's disappointing that the Workers' Party, along with the government parties, is in and out of this majority, because it helps to weaken the possibilities of building up a good enough preparedness in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1438	On the coast of Hordaland and in the southern Sogn and Fjordane, people have, with good reason, been concerned with preparedness for incidents or accidents related to tank transport to and from Mongstad and Sture. In relation to these terminals, it is transported close to 100 million. tons of crude oil per tonne. years. This is distributed among tankers in size up to 300000 tonnes deadweight. One day, not long ago, there was 1 million. tonnes of crude oil at the same time as on keel at terminals. The number and volume are important in this context. That's why I also take it that, on average over the year, six–seven tankers go into these terminals per. day(s) These do not go in defined leader 40–50 nautical miles from country, no, they all go to port as one. In addition, there are approximately 16 000 ship movements in this area, at the risk of collision. The Bergen port area is one of Europe's largest ports, in fact the second largest port of oil. This is an important aspect of this prevention work. Furthermore, the nearest oil installation is located only 28 nautical miles from the coast, or well 50 km. To put these numbers in perspective, there's actually nowhere else on the Norwegian coast that has such volumes in close proximity. In addition, there are three oil pipelines and a condensate pipeline just off the coast of Mongstad-Sture. The right takes responsibility for this, and, with its majority comment, has taken over these facts. As a hordelding I am in this case results-oriented. The most important thing is that it now appears to be a broad majority — not to say a unanimous increase — for such recognition, even though there are shades in the formulations related to the deposit in Fedje. I feel sure that we are now on the right track, or perhaps rather straight cool, towards a sustainable solution for this part of the coast, the environment and the inhabitants who live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1447	Maritime safety and oil protection are of particular importance. An almost collective Committee on Transport has had the political aim of increasing, in particular, the traffic of goods by sea. In addition, as we know, there is a sharp increase in oil transport in almost all sea areas along our long coast. This makes it necessary to use forces to improve maritime safety and national oil preparedness. I'm not going to use strong words about what I thought about the message when it came from the Minister of Fisheries, but it wasn't exactly the most exciting thing we'd seen. However, through the treatment in Stortinget, in my view, some have been changed to the better, as necessary measures to improve both maritime safety and protection against oil disasters along our coast. Work to prevent accidents is the best way to prevent pollution and damage. Therefore, this work should have a very high priority in the future. We must have good control over the ever-increasing oil traffic from Russia to the United States and the oil transport to, for example. Europe, which makes the ships go down along the whole coast. In the same way, we have to make sure that the sailing manager is also taken care of in the Skagerrak. Especially after the accident of the «Fiord Champion» in March this year, where it took about 16 hours before a tugboat came to the place and the ship lay near firm ground and it was only luck and good weather that prevented the disaster, there has been a lot of attention around the response time – that is, the time it takes before a Hagarist gets assistance. Everyone agrees that 16 hours are not acceptable. But the committee does not agree on how to solve this problem: 6 hours, 12 hours – why not just 4 or 5 hours? Of course, it would have been most comfortable to say 6 hours, as the Progress Party and SV have done. I think it is unthinkable that some of my Nordic co-representatives have traveled around the country and the beach and said that others have done a bad job in this context. Why don't you say 4 or 5 hours? Think of a number - it won't improve oil protection. I think we all have a common goal – that we should have better maritime safety. This creates uncertainty. Actions and creative ways to find solutions are the best oil protection solutions. The majority of the Committee has provided for this by requiring the Government to find the best possible solutions. The government shall locate and put into system all required tug capacity. Private actors, such as individual oil companies, should also be involved. This shall form the basis for proposals for solutions to the future state response to oil disasters. The working party believes this will provide a much better preparedness – which is also economically credible – than just walking around and saying that 6 hours is the solution. I am very pleased that the committee has agreed that Norway's fire school should be the central actor in coastal zone preparedness training. I am also pleased that you are behind the Nordnorsk Emergency Centre, and that you have got an overall committee behind it – that gives good competence both for the country and for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1464	I have raised the issue of the security of Svalbard from this chair on several previous occasions. I am very pleased and think it is very positive that the Government is now assessing whether the Port and Water Law and the Los Law should apply in whole or in part to Svalbard. I think it is important – if the minister wants to listen to such little advice – that not least the Losing Act applies. So a little bit about some of the main issues in today's debate. I also agree that towing boat capacity is important. And it's quite doubtful, as the entire committee seems to agree, that there must be a combination of public and private preparedness. This with response time has been a recurring issue. I think it is right and important, and I am pleased that the committee in the vote has unanimously said that preparedness in South Norway needs to be strengthened. It says that you get wise because of damage. Fortunately, the damage was minimal in connection with the Fjord Champion. The disaster with the Fjord Champion was not far from the Lindesnes area, and the Farsund Avis on March 17 says: «The tanker received engine stop outside Lista.3.700 metres from Borshavn, the chemical tanker «Listraum» had an engine stop. The ‘Eggs’ sniper came to the place quickly and had the tanker thrown into space sea.’ And in the same newspaper the next day, on March 18, we find the headline: «New Disaster at List» And on the other hand, ‘In yesterday’s 21st hour, ‘MS Randefoss’ received engine stop one nautical mile south of the List.’ There was a boat of 600-700 tonnes. It seems to me to be an important thought to have in my head as soon as possible to introduce the sailors along the South Coast and Oslofjord. It is not uncommon with a current of e.g. Four knots. In the event of a breakdown, when power and wind conditions are in an unfortunate combination, a boat could be in the spring rocks within three hours when the sailing trail is 12 nautical miles of land. It means that the response time is nothing more than some guidance, because it depends on where the boat is going, what kind of boat it is, and the weather and driving conditions. I also believe that it is important for professionals to be informed about these things, and that they do not commit themselves to a blind staring at the response time of then and so many hours. This may not solve all problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1492	It's so far drawn ten speakers with 3 minutes of speaking time. The President will not impose formal constraints, but reminds us that it is not always the case that clarity increases with the length of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1495	For those of us who live in the West, it is an important message that is being treated today. Several of the representatives from Hordaland have been involved in asking for this message on the table, because we were deeply concerned about preparedness along our part of the coast. The debate on our side of the country has in particular been about the status of the oil-protection pot on Fedje in Northern Hordland, which is therefore just at the entrance to Mongstad, in a weather-hard area, and where the reduction of the oil-protection pot that has been on Fedje, has meant that the current preparedness consists of two containers located in the middle of the island, at the point on the island as far away from the sea as you can get, and in a municipality where there are no cranes large enough to move on these containers. There has been a strong local commitment in North Hordland to re-establish better oil protection. It is also a matter that was recently announced that there would now be a majority in Stortinget. When the representative Olav Aksens had an election campaign for Fedje on behalf of the Workers' Party, he could tell that the depot was saved. On 3 May he said to the Official Journal of Bergen: ‘Ap, Sv and Frp enter for the re-establishment of the depot on Fedje. Then a new depot can be in place as early as next year." I must say I am very surprised at the way the Labour Party has maneuvered in this matter, because today there is no such majority, because the Labour Party has jumped off and rather chose to join the government parties in a remark that is, if you read it carefully, completely non-committal. The big difference between these two remarks is that it says ‘can’, and in the other it says ‘shell’. And we all know that there's a big difference between the meaning of "can" and "shell". So it's a postponement of the case, a way of shifting the question of the state of the deposit in Fedje, which, in turn, makes it entirely up to the department what's going to happen next on that question. We are at risk of winter and spring. No guarantees have been given to people in Northern Hordland. I can only record that the Workers' Party spent two weeks breaking its promise to the coastal population in North Hordland. I think that's sad and incomprehensible. This case has been assessed long enough. There should be time for action instead of further assessments. We can all just sincerely hope that those of us who believe there is a great need for a better preparedness for Fat, will not get right in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1511	As I have been the case rapporteur for the two social security messages that Stortinget has addressed this period, I have been very interested to read both the position and followed the debate here today. The Communication ‘On the safe side — maritime safety and oil protection’ is also a Communication on social security, preparedness and crisis management. Both the communication and the comments of the Committee provide a good starting point for further work. But I miss a clear link to the concept of social security and preparedness. Int. S. No 49 for 2004–2005 on social security and civil-military cooperation underlined an overall defence committee that it is important that the ministries refer to social security and preparedness in the relevant issues presented to the Stortinget. I ask the Council of State to include recommendations for matters in the future, but I am fully aware that on this matter, they had not been notified yet. It will raise awareness of the importance of social security and preparedness work and a more active approach to the implementation of the basic principles of responsibility, equality and proximity. Equally important is the consolidation and coordination of resources. In reality, all citizens have a co-responsibility for reducing vulnerability and increasing social security within the new concept of total defence, including: to clarify that the total resources available to deal with a war can also be used for difficult, crisis-like events in peacetime. It is important to strengthen cooperation between defence and civil society as well as between civil institutions in order to provide better holistic solutions and better resource use. The main principle in the field of social security is that the Ministry responsible for a sector for the day-to-day operation is also responsible for emergency planning and, where appropriate, the implementation of emergency measures in an emergency situation. In addition, the Ministry of Justice has a responsibility for coordination and supervision. And then it's the defense committee that deals with social security issues that come to the Storting. Two of the objectives of the future work is to integrate society's overall resources into social security work through coordinated use and prioritisation. Priority shall be given to the prevention of social security activities, while further intensifying training and practice activities. Emergency exercises — having thought through or practiced different situations — are important, but it is equally important to meet to get to know each other and get a review of who does what. I have visited a number of municipalities and talked to emergency officers. Clearly, there is great potential for improvement, primarily by thinking about vulnerability and social security and by having a conscious attitude at all levels of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1524	I'm glad so many people are busy that we're going to have a good oil protection tool along the whole coast. We have a lot of activity in oil business, and that makes us postpone. But the oil business we have also makes the state get big revenues. The part we use on oil protection is very small in relation to the approx. 300 billion kroner that oil companies bring into the state treasury for the current year. Ship traffic and oil transport cause some parts of the coast to be at greater risk of unwanted events and thus to be more in need of oil protection than other parts of the coast. Centrally located fat, both in relation to Sture and in relation to Mongstad shipping, is a high-risk area and is therefore a natural place for a main depot. In that context, it was incomprehensible that the main depot that was there was in that time was liquidated. I am pleased that the Transport Committee is now busy with this issue. As I said, the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party enter in order for this main depot to be created again as soon as possible. The Government Party and the Labour Party, on the other hand, want an assessment and an explanation of this. I can't see the need for any reassessment. It is also not clear how long this new assessment and evaluation will take, and one does not know what the results will be. I also agree with what Audun Lysbakken said, that it is thought-provoking that central politicians in the Workers' Party promise that this depot will be in place next year, and that in retrospect they will fall off in relation to the comments that the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party stand for. I also read the Right-President of Fedje, Erling Walderhaug, saying when he got the point that the Labour Party had jumped off: there is always hope in hanging strings. In this case, we hope that it will end well. But I am at least happy that the Progress Party is in the hands of SV and the Center Party is standing high on the fact that the oil protection equipment is important, and that one must therefore restore Fedje as an own main depot.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1538	At the bottom of the debate, I think we should acknowledge that the 'John R' accident a few years ago was a turning point in oil protection. As a result, after a few months, this government provided a big message, ‘Rent and Rich Seas’. It led to reorganisation, new uniform management, better coordination and implementation of a wide range of actions, and several have been notified. It is also the case that accidents such as ‘Fiord Champion’, ‘Rocknes’, ‘Moscow’ and the gas tanker ‘Marte’ have given us experience that is useful for further work. About every day, something happens along the coast that the Coastal Works handle in a satisfactory way, and that gives us new experience. We must not forget the qualitatively good work that is being done, which means that many near-accidents never come into the media and get the big attention, precisely because we have a good preparedness. Then there was the representative Klungland, who said that we could thank higher forces for not being oil seams after the «Fiord Champion». I am of those who think we should thank higher forces more often, in many ways. But one should also be liberal enough to admit that good equipment, high capacity, good coordination and good management enable us to deal with unexpected events such as those we got in connection with the ‘Fiord Champion’, but that the preparedness was still not good enough. Then there were emergency ports and coastal sites that the representative Vihovde asked about. To that it's saying that you have defined emergency ports, and you have defined beaching sites. We go in with the fire department and training. The inter-municipal samples of emergency preparedness are important elements in this, and we therefore have equipment related to various depots – private, public and municipal. The big error with Prestige was that we sent it to sea. The belief that if we just remove everything that has to do with danger, as far as possible away from the coast, everything becomes good, can become a scourge that is heavier to deal with than that. As far as Svalbard is concerned, we consider when the new port and water law that we send out on consultation to summer can be applied to Svalbard. This can happen at the earliest when the Storing has adopted it, in the summer of 2006. We now establish, among other things, emergency discharge equipment for bunker oil up there, just to improve preparedness. In the case of Fedje, I have to say that there is no basis for drawing the picture that someone is trying to draw, by then doubting the majority's position on Fedje. I perceive that the majority is at least as clear as the minority in the case of Fedje. The representative Froyn was very clear that you are impatient, and I confirm that I take this impatience seriously. That is why we must return to the state budget for the autumn. It will cost approx. Ten million. kr to restore the depot in Fedje. It has budgetary implications, and then it's natural that we take it into account. Of course, the minority does not grant money for this, parts of the minority cutters on the Coast Guard. We need money for it. There is no basis for doubting the majority's position in the Fedje case. I perceive that the work order is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1553	It is not always so easy to hear the difference between higher forces and right forces, but the President assumes that there were higher forces recommended by the Council of State in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1556	Since I understand that both the president and perhaps more in the assembly seem to have gone through the debate long enough, I will not repeat any of what SV's representatives in the Committee on Transport have done in an excellent way in relation to why prioritying coastal preparedness is important for SV. I'm going to link some comments to something that maybe for some is a detail, but that for SV is important in this setting, and that's what goes on at Loran C. So one might say that it's a little absurd that there's an S.B. that takes it up, but that's the case. I must admit that I was very surprised when I saw the setting, and saw that the government party and the Labour Party have gathered about a remark that one says that one thinks that ‘Loran C is not continued as a ‘back-up’ system in a future satellite navigation system and refers to previous handling of the case’. This can be seen as a nail in the box for Loran C, or it can be perceived, as I read it, as wool, and it's hard to understand what is actually the March Earth of the Government. One thing that is certain is that as the Progress Party, SV and the Center do not collect multiples for their comment, which is an offensive remark to ask the Government to press and make sure that Loran C is selected as a back-up system in a future European satellite navigation system, the Government of the Stortinge is in a way given the backing of the government to be passive to it. That's what I think is terribly broken, because this is a possibility that we let go of us. Here we have unique Norwegian competence, we have professional representations that have repeatedly assessed the vulnerability of all kinds of satellite navigation systems, and that says that here we need a ground-based infrastructure to have some kind of back-up. The great majority to be passive to, and I thought it was very broken. I would like a change to be made to this, and I hope that the seriousness of the matter is gradually spread over the parts that give the Government a 'backing' here. Here we're going to give you a chance to leave us, and I don't understand, if you want to be so passive, why don't you bring some kind of factual information in relation to why you don't want to choose Loran C? I can't see that one comes into this case, I haven't seen one come into the previous budget, it didn't come into the NTP, and it doesn't come into it when we ask the Council of State about it. Here are some motives that Stortinget doesn't want to get written through the setting, and I can't hear that anyone argues well for it verbally either. I wonder very much what it is that actually motivates you to actually be so passive in this case. In this case, a single possibility might go away. Here is the Norwegian competence that we should fight to preserve. But it's not the big deal that interests me, and I think it's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1572	I have to say that I am responding to posts based on headlines in the Western countries on May 3rd, in connection with a position that was issued on May 10th, and what speculations you would like to make about what one or other might have meant in the process that has taken place in the Committee. It may be, but you can't put it in as a weighty argument to understand some of the policies that have evolved. The representative Lightbaking obviously has only one motive, and it's building up some kind of enemy image against the Workers' Party. I think that is unfortunate in view of the political situation we are in, and in view of the expectations we have in connection with the elections we are facing. To try to make political points of nothing here is definitely to be careful with. Now, on its side, the Council of State has clarified what is the agreed text. I said in my main post that you should be careful to act like the person whose name started with F – I was told to be a little careful with it – when he read the Bible, and then interpret it. In the case of Loran C, I was a little surprised. Loran C is not a Norwegian competence. There is no topic in the international context. When we possibly wind up Loran C, it's because technological development is like this. It's other systems. We can't sit in the Stortinget and adopt a 'back-up' when no one uses Loran C, and that's the dilemma if you want to keep Loran C. There are quite a few countries in active use, and there are several countries in the process of doing so. It's just like that, and that's what we're starting from. Otherwise, philosophically speaking, I do not think it is necessary to ignore the importance of modal aid for political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1585	It was not the representative Froyn who did that that I took the floor, but I need to make a comment to what the Council of State said, as the end of this debate. The Committee has unanimously said one thing in its position, and that is that the oil protection solution we have today is not suitable for addressing tomorrow's challenges. I think it should be the serious message that remains from this debate, and I am happy to hear that the Council of State says he is in a hurry. But I would warn against an interpretation that says today's readiness is sufficient. We can't sit and say it's safe today, but tomorrow it's unsafe. I hope that when we get back to Stortinget with oil protection in the next round, we get a message that aims at tomorrow's preparedness we'll plan for. Today's preparedness, what is happening today, we are really getting a little done with it, it is tomorrow's readiness that I will be very clear that it is the order and what is urgent. If someone thinks that the opposition here, if you can use a word like that, or a broken minority, doesn't understand the complexity of the questions, it's wrong. We understand the complexity of the issues, we also understand the risks we face, and we understand what values we manage along the coast and are at stake. That is why – as the representative Froyn has also underlined twice – this has been a major and important national matter. We are therefore not satisfied with the readiness we have. It is not sufficient in relation to the current situation, it showed the loss of the ‘Fiord Champion’, and the Committee is unanimous in its view that it is not sufficient in relation to the challenges we will face in tomorrow’s situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1594	The council has given signs that he wants a mini-replicate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1597	Yes, now it is not common for state councils to take a reply, so that's not what I have asked for, but a short post. I just needed to say to the representative Sørensen that today's preparedness is not good enough for tomorrow's risk, that no, that's what is described in the big message. And when you establish it as a truth, it becomes a little weird that the same representative criticises us for having started analyses and assessments to dimension tomorrow's preparedness in line with tomorrow's risk. So there is no new discovery the representative Sørensen has made, it is described in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1602	The President will note that there was a blessed card not to be a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2323]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1620	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1627	I see this proposal from the representative Simonsen as a prelude to the election campaign, where one can go out and say that this suggested to me, and this went against the Stortinget. I can understand that the representative Simonsen, who is not in the Committee on Transport, needs to state publicly what he is saying about these questions. But I actually thought that a group committee would reject the matter now, because this big and comprehensive question of making the highways free is in the billions class. This will cost the state one billion more, and taking away the toll will cost the state many billions. This is a major issue, which is home to a place, and it is in the treatment of the national transport plan. It deals with us just a year ago, and we believe that these are questions that we have to come back to when we are going to deal with the national transport plan again in three years' time. On that basis, it is proposed that the majority, everyone outside the Advance Party, should attach the matter to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1632	I will first be shown that the state will charge far more than 50 billion kroner in car charges and when tolls are collected at all the toll stations that grow up like toboggan hats around. On repeated occasions, the Party has proposed significant increases in the appropriations for road construction and maintenance, at the latest at the time of Innst treatment. S. No 240 for 2003-2004 on the national transport plan 2006-2015. Here the Progress Party put forward a proposal to increase the investment and operation appropriations of the State road network by SEK 75 billion over the decade, i.e. DKK 7.5 billion per year. years. In several budgetary settings, the Progress Party has proposed significant reductions in car and automotive charges, with a view to increasing the consistency between car and road billing costs paid by the drivers and those used on the road network. In addition, the Progress Party wants to close today’s toll stations, so that it becomes the state that is responsible for all financing of road construction. As regards the second part of the proposal, that ferries should be free, the Progress Party will see this in the context of the road sector as a whole, as in Sweden. We want all the costs on the table to see what it really will cost society to implement this. But the idea is to a great extent useful, and we'll evaluate it. I should like to refer to the proposal No. 1 and 2 respectively from the Party of Advancement and the Centre Party and from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide an assessment of the introduction of a free ferry for users in the context of the 2006 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in respect of the 2006 budget to propose the cancellation of toll companies’ debts in order to eliminate toll stations. Any funds collected but not used shall go to the projects for which they are required.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1653	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1656	When in Document No: 8:63 it is suggested that all toll projects initiated should be discontinued and that the State should assume the financial responsibility, while not allowing the launching of new toll projects, this is a conversion which interferes with many existing and planned projects. Tolls have gradually become a major part of total road investment. Tolls as part-financing of projects have become more the rule than the exemption. With the investment framework in the state budget, it will be a long time before the many unsolved road projects around the country are completed. People get impatient and tired of waiting for government promises. Local and county authorities are therefore in favour of tolls in order to have their projects prioritised and completed in the past. In many places, citizens pay more and more of the road projects themselves in the form of tolls. The pressure on the personal economy is growing in those parts of the country where there are many toll projects. The distribution of this extra cost will be very different, depending on the country of a cage. I have a lot of understanding that many people react gradually both to pay the toll project and to the costs that this leads to too many. commuters and others who often pass toll stations receive high extra costs. There may therefore be grounds for reviewing and evaluating different aspects of the tolling scheme. However, this must be done after a more thorough examination than a Document No. Eight proposals. A natural time to do this may be associated with the next NTP scrolling. The centre party would therefore vote against proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party, and we will also vote against proposal No. Three, which is distributed in the hall. The second part of the proposal in Document No. The 8-proposal deals with a theme that the Center Party has been busy on for many years, i.e. the ferry costs. For several years, the Centre Party has invested funds in its alternative budget to give holiday residents cheaper ferry tickets. In the long run, the Center Party believes that the ferries should be free of charge. The ferries are an affluent part of local and business life. As it is today, ferries are strengthening the distance disadvantages and distance costs in the country. Free ferry will be a handshake to remove some of the extra costs many districts wear. Therefore, the Center Party, together with the Progress Party, has a comment that there is a basis for looking at a free ferry system for users. We are also involved in the proposal asking the Government to provide an assessment of the introduction of a free ferry for users in the context of the 2006 state budget. We believe that it is necessary to put stronger searchlights on the disadvantages of communities that depend on ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1669	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1672	The arguments for removing toll financing are relatively well known. I don't have so many minutes to defend my proposal either. We already have a number of charges imposed on Norwegian drivers. To get the car to Norway when you buy the car, you have to pay the registration fee, you have a petrol tax, you have an annual fee, and you have VAT on top of all the other charges. All these charges involve significantly more money than the amount used for road development in Norway. And then you have to pay tolls at the top of this. Now these bombs pop up all over Norway. There are 45 projects already under way and 30 new projects are being planned. It is clear that the drivers are thus subject to an unreasonable tax. In addition to these unreasonable financial burdens on the drivers, tolls mean reducing people's sense of personal freedom. For some, for minimum pensioners and others who have poor advice, it actually means a real deprivation of freedom that you can't afford to use the car to visit relatives, friends and acquaintances. For many of us who can afford to pay this money, we have this feeling of reducing our freedom when we have to slow down the car, stop and put this money in the bombs. I see that the Progress Party supports my proposal a good deal on the way, but they do not go the whole way out. There is nothing in the proposals of the Progress Party to allow the launch of new bomb projects later. They want the state to take over the financing of projects already under way. In the case of national roads, these ferries are part of the roads. So the roads have been paid a lot of money to spend from before, through all these fees that I have recently listed, and then you have to pay expensive money to use the ferry to top it all. I see that the proposal put forward jointly by the Centre Party and the Advance Party is relatively non-binding. The government is asked to assess this in the context of the State budget. I assume that any government will assess most of the state budget – at least one will think carefully about most of the economic consequences of different reforms. So it's pretty unobligatory. I can understand this for the Central Party part, which is now probably coming into a new government, but I have more difficulty understanding this great fear from the Advance Party, which has no chance to enter any government in the reasonable future. I bring this up with proposal No. 3, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1689	The representative Jan Simonsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2324]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1699	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1713	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1774	During the debate, Per Ove Width has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:38 [[2004-2005]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1882	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, a towing boat capacity along the entire Norwegian coast with a normal response time of 6 hours and a maximum of 12 hours based on the coastal route.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1912	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Thore A. Nistad, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 2 by Mr Thore A. Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1945	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government in respect of the 2006 budget to propose the cancellation of toll companies’ debts in order to eliminate toll stations. Any funds collected but not used shall go to the projects for which they are required.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-19.ana.ud215e1960	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Center Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide an assessment of the introduction of a free ferry for users in the context of the 2006 State Budget.’
