ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e196	Honourable co-representatives! Former mayor and councillor Lars Leiro died on 22 March, near 91 years old. Leiro was born in Voss on April 13, 1914. After high school and commercial school, he took his master's degree in 1938 and became director of Sand private middle school. In 1941 he took over the garden Gerde at Voss. Leiro held a number of municipal political positions from 1945, and he was rapporteur in Voss from 1956 to 1959. Lars Leiro was representative of the Central Party from 1958 to 1969. He was also the Vice-Chairman of the Central Government of the Central Party from 1961 to 1969. When the Borten government was formed in 1965, Leiro was given the demanding task of being the parliamentary leader of the Central Party in Stortinget. This position was particularly important because the Central Party had the Prime Minister in the government. There was also a big group of strong personalities that Leiro was set to lead. Leiro did very well with this task. He appeared resolutely and tidy. It was important for him to come up with solutions that all felt they could stand behind, and without anyone feeling like losers. In that period Leiro was the parliamentary leader, he had permanent place in the Foreign and Constitutional Committee. He was also a member of the Stortinget delegation to the Nordic Council. From 1958 to 1961, Leiro was a member of the Municipal Committee. From 1961 to 1965 he was a member of the Financial and Customs Committee. Leiro had a strong interest in the future of agriculture and the countryside. As the parliamentary leader, he was nevertheless concerned about covering the entire political area, and he also succeeded very well. Leiro sought exact knowledge, and he was results oriented in his work. He was always careful to point out the issues that it was important to be aware of when important decisions were to be taken, and he asked critical questions when something was not thoroughly analysed and substantiated. Leiro was shown great confidence by being appointed Minister of Transport of the Lyng Government. For his long-standing efforts for the Center Party, Leiro received in 1989 the highest distinction of the Center Party, the Såmann Statuetten. Leiro was appointed County of Hordaland in 1966, but took over only when the ageing period ended in 1969. He sat as a county until 1984. He showed great commitment to this work and put his strong personal imprint on the county office. Leiro was a prominent trustee in Det Kgl. Company for Norway Well for 26 years, the last 12 years under pressure. For his great efforts, he was appointed an honorary member in 1982. Leiro had several trusts in agricultural organisations and was appointed chairman or board member in a wide range of public committees and councils. He was, among other things, Member of the Executive Board of the District Development Fund for 13 years, Chairman of the Department of Labour and Action in Hordaland for 16 years and Member of the Management Board of Municipal Data in the West for 14 years. He was chairman of the Mongstad Committee, and he was chairman of the Sotra Committee for Oil Landing. He was a member of the Tyssedals Committee and chairman of the Polar Council. This shows some of the width of Leiro's engagement. For his great efforts, in 1982, Leiro was appointed commander of the Order of St. Olav for merit in office and public office. Leiro was a significant community builder and one of its time leading political figures. We are grateful for the considerable social effort that Lars Leiro has made and brings peace to his good memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e233	The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Kirsti Welander, has taken the seat. The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e241	On behalf of the representative Sigbjørn Molvik and myself, I propose to wind up the procedure for tenders for the production of orthopaedic footwear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e246	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e260	I'm not going to spend a long time, but I think I have to say something. The Coastal Party is against the new Finnish Law. That's a position we want to maintain. In any case, it is very important that the assembly is given an opinion at the earliest opportunity in this case. Therefore, I believe that the draft referral must be submitted to Mrs Sametinget and the assembly for an opinion, before the vote is given to the Stortinget Committee, and that the Judicial Committee should send the draft to the Municipal Committee at the same time. It is very important that everyone is given a deadline for replying, which gives them sufficient time to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e267	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2179]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e283	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2179]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e303	The NPT Non-Proliferation Agreement has long worked as intended. But the pressure against the NPT has never been stronger than today. There is a great danger that the agreement may be terminated. Then it will be free for any state that wants to acquire nuclear weapons. More than 40 countries have the necessary expertise and the necessary technology. North Korea has already broken its obligations in the agreement and has acquired its own nuclear weapons. The country has produced enough plutonium for five to ten bombs. If you don't succeed in bringing North Korea back into the non-proliferation regime, there's a great danger of a nuclear race in Asia. A possible development of nuclear weapons in Iran could trigger a race in the Middle East, a region that is already explosive enough. Iran has also made major transfers on the nuclear black market network, which was led by Pakistani Abdul Qadeer Khan. Khan — the father of the Pakistani nuclear bomb — appears to be the purest commercial traveler in nuclear technology and has also helped North Korea, in addition to Iran, to acquire nuclear technology. The Khan network also reveals another new challenge, namely that knowledge, technology and fissile material to build nuclear weapons can reach non-governmental actors, i.e. terrorist groups. It is not without reason that the head of the UN Atomic Energy Agency, El Baradei, warns against nuclear terrorism. Groups like Al Qaida, Jemaah Islamiyah and Hezbollah and Chechen separatists and Pakistani Islamists probably have ambitions to acquire nuclear weapons, and they don't want to acquire such weapons to deter others, but to use them. This is part of the new reality. However, this cannot be met by renouncing the safe principles on which the Non-Proliferation Agreement was based, namely that nuclear weapons should not be spread to more countries than those recognised as nuclear weapons at the time of the agreement, Article 1 of the Agreement, and that all the other countries accepted to submit to the non-proliferation regime against the commitment of nuclear powers to bring down to zero, Article 6 of the Agreement. This was emphatically confirmed at the 2000 Conference of Supervisors for the Agreement. A 13-point programme was also set up to be implemented in order to achieve the objectives. But the central actors, the United States and Russia, have not complied with what was agreed at the time. Because the United States believes that the country's strategic nuclear weapons cannot defend the United States against possible attacks from, among other things. terrorist groups, the United States has launched the development of a rocket defence. For this reason, the country has opposed the ratification of the agreement banning testing nuclear weapons, the Test stop agreement, and the negotiations on an agreement prohibiting the production of fissile material for use in weapons are not yet under way. President Putin announced on 17 November last year that Russia has begun to develop a new unparalleled nuclear weapon to use his own words. He added that the innovation will soon become part of the country's operational weapons arsenal. In addition to this, the United States also seems to have developed a new philosophy for who can have nuclear weapons, and who can't have it. In the NPT, there's nuclear weapons that are the counting unit. Nuclear weapons must not be spread to more than those accepted as nuclear powers. The United States has begun to clarify that you have to make sure that the nuclear weapons are in the right hands. This creates suspicions that the United States is trying to force regime change in countries like North Korea and Iran, as happened in Iraq, and that they are using the threat of nuclear weapons to provoke confrontation. Thus, the regimes have no reason to accept the demands of international society, since they suspect that they are being set aside in any way. Yes, the threat of being subjected to the same treatment as Iraq may be one of the reasons why they continue to develop such weapons. If it happens that nuclear weapons are acceptable when they are in the hands of the good, but unacceptable if they are in the service of the evil, we are on wild roads – not because there are no good and evil forces in the world, but because nuclear weapons are a evil regardless of who has them. That is why it must be abolished. We need to return to the principle of non-discrimination and the action programme adopted in 2000. I would like to highlight a few points that I hope the Government will also stress in the forthcoming negotiations in the United Nations. First of all, the implementation of Article 6, in particular the first paragraph of this paragraph, on the rapid stop in the nuclear arms race. This section has always been related to two measures: full stop and stop in the production of fissile materials for weapons purposes. Some also believe that guarantees to nonnuclear powers that they will not be attacked by nuclear weapons belong in this context. However, the status is that the termination agreement has no prospect of entry into force with the first. Negotiations on stopping the production of fissile materials have not started, and the Bush administration has raised doubts about the security guarantees. However, the Security Council adopted a resolution in 1995 on security guarantees with international legal status. Norway must insist on this and the other two points I mentioned. For the future of the NPT, the test stop question is particularly important. I also want to draw attention to a call from the campaign to strengthen the Non-Proliferation Agreement. At the top of the campaign is prominent American and Russian politicians and researchers, including the former U.S. Secretary of State. In particular, they underline the need to strengthen the IAEA’s ability to inspect and monitor compliance by countries. However, in the last 15 years there has been zero growth in the nuclear agency’s security control budget. After the 1991 Gulf War, it turned out that Iraq had had an extensive nuclear program without the nuclear agency discovering it. This resulted in significant improvements in security controls and there was agreement on an additional protocol to this effect to the Non-Proliferation Agreement. According to this, the nuclear agency may provide information on both nuclear material and nuclear-related activities. The Additional Protocol also includes environmental monitoring for, inter alia: be able to ‘cut’ up to the level of radioactivity in the air resulting from illegal programmes. In order to improve security controls, it is therefore important that several countries accept the additional protocol and increase the appropriations allocated to the Atomic Energy Agency. I think this should be an important Norwegian profile at the Conference of Supervisors. It must also be more difficult to withdraw from the non-proliferation regime. Today it is enough to give a three-month notice of withdrawal. That's what North Korea did. The Security Council had no possibility of sanctions. It did not even express concern. This is too weak. It must be more difficult to escape by requiring a qualified number of UN member states to approve it. The Security Council must be able to impose penalties when alerting the alert, so that the costs of withdrawing are high. There is every reason to take it seriously that North Korea has come out of the Non-Proliferation Agreement and that Iran as a member is likely to break it by developing nuclear weapons. The relationship between India and Pakistan — two other nuclear powers that are not members of the agreement — is exciting. It also gives cause for concern that the original nuclear powers do not do what they were imposed in 2000. There is reason to take El Baradei's warning that the next step in the history of terror can become forms of nuclear terror, seriously. In order to prevent this, the non-proliferation regime must be strengthened. Political solutions must also be worked for in the conflict areas that have created the terrorist groups. We have to remember the following: Hamas was formed after the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza in 1967. Hezbollah was formed after the Israeli invasion of Lebanon in 1982. The Kim of Al Qaida was sown during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. Israel’s leaders will certainly – if they talk openly about their nuclear weapons – refer to the threat that the country is facing from its Arab and Persian neighbours, among others. from Iran, who has never accepted Israel's right to exist. I don't recognize any of these groups' use of violence. I don't recognize that Israel has the right to possess nuclear weapons. But we need to do more to resolve the underlying conflicts, so that the area can be free of nuclear weapons and free of terrorist groups. The Supervisory Conference of the Non-Proliferation Agreement starting in New York at the beginning of May may be one of the most important events. It is important for the Storting to hear the Government’s assessments prior to this conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e339	The NPT agreement on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons has been an effective instrument for 35 years to prevent the proliferation of such weapons. Unfortunately, we now feel that the agreement and the non-proliferation regime are under increasing pressure. This is largely due to three factors. First, some countries are trying to acquire nuclear weapons. Secondly, reports show that terrorist organisations are trying to obtain access to material for the manufacture of nuclear weapons, and thirdly, there is a widespread perception today that the implementation of the disarmament obligations of the NPT agreement is too slow. With regard to the first serious challenge, it is imperative to prevent new countries from acquiring nuclear weapons. In particular, developments in North Korea are very alarming. Clearly, it is the country's intention to acquire and produce nuclear weapons. This represents a serious threat to global security, to regional stability, and it contributes to undermining the non-proliferation regime. State Secretary Vidar Helgesen has been in North Korea this week to get a first impression of the country and to have conversations with the authorities. The question of the country’s development of nuclear weapons has been central during the meetings, and a message that North Korea has to go back to the Non-Proliferation Agreement and until the six-party negotiations have been made clear. From the Norwegian side, we believe that North Korea is still bound by its obligations to the NPT Agreement. It will be my priority to get this signal clear and unambiguous at the New York Supervisory Conference next week. The situation in Iran is also alarming. The International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, has established that Iran has, over several years, been driving the international community behind the light on the content of its nuclear programme. It is in Iran's interest to cooperate fully with the Atomic Energy Agency without imposing any conditions. Norway supports the EU's efforts to find a diplomatic solution, and we will actively follow up on this issue when we enter the Agency's Management Board for the autumn. The weakening of the NPT Agreement is a serious challenge to global security and peace. This is also the background to UN Security Council Resolution 1540, against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, which obliges Member States to take action against the proliferation of such weapons. This applies in particular to measures against non-governmental actors. Our involvement in the non-proliferation initiative PSI and our significant commitment and large allocations to nuclear safety work in North-West Russia are also important in contributing to international non-proliferation work. Another key instrument to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is the strengthening of global non-proliferation and disarmament agreements. The agreement on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is central here. The 188 countries that have joined the NPT today will meet in New York next week to review the main provisions of the agreement and to discuss how best to strengthen the agreement. I myself will lead the Norwegian delegation, and I will keep the main Norwegian post on 3 May. Norway has for a long time had a strong commitment to ensure that this conference is as successful as possible. We want to keep a high profile. Let me therefore highlight our main initiatives and instruments in this context. In March, three months before the Supervisory Conference, we gathered 25 central countries to an NPT meeting here in Oslo to finish the course for a successful conference. This meeting identified the main problem areas with regard to how we could best bridge the various national positions. In particular, this applies to countries primarily concerned with the non-proliferation aspects of the NPT Agreement and to the group of countries primarily concerned with further nuclear disarmament. During this meeting in Oslo, we had a good dialogue, and we outlined some elements that could be included in a comprehensive final document from the Conference of Supervisors. Of course, we will follow this commitment during the conference itself. Prior to the Supervisory Conference, Norway will distribute a position paper with our political priorities for the work to be done. Hopefully this will also be underlined in a final document. Among other things, it is particularly important to achieve new cuts in the nuclear arsenals. The Moscow Agreement, concluded by the United States and Russia in 2002, represents a central contribution in this way. The agreement provides for significant reductions in the strategic nuclear strengths of the two countries. Despite the progress that has been made, we are busy getting further cut. At the same time, it is important that future reductions also include tactical nuclear weapons. From the Norwegian side, we will repeat previous demands that the cuts be made irrevocable and transparent. Furthermore, we will call for strengthening the ability of the Atomic Energy Agency to verify that civil nuclear programmes are not being used for military purposes. We can do this, for example: achieve by making the IAEA's so-called additional protocol, which improves the transparency of the IAEA's civil nuclear programmes, mandatory for all NPT countries. This work has priority from my side. In addition, we are committed to finding mechanisms that will prevent new countries from developing the capacity and capacity to enrich uranium and process plutonium. This is of course important to prevent future voltage threats. There is the discussion in the International Forum on the development of a regulation of the nuclear fuel cycle. This field is something the Government wants to follow up both in the NPT context and in the IAEA in the future. In addition, we will highlight the importance of effective export control. This is an integral and important part of the fight against nuclear proliferation and other weapons of mass destruction. Here, Norway will take over the leadership of the Group for the Export Control of Nuclear Material and Relevant Multipurpose Products, i.e. the Nuclear Suppliers Group, NSG. Within this field, we are working to ensure that non-NSG countries follow the guidelines underpinning cooperation. We are also moving in to further strengthen the guidelines. From other measures and instruments, we will continue to engage in speedy negotiations on an international agreement prohibiting the production of fissile materials for weapons purposes. Such an agreement is important to prevent a new arms race. It is therefore regrettable that the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, known as the CD, has not started these negotiations, despite the fact that Norway and many other countries have agreed to this. Another priority is to support an earlier entry into force of the Treaty on the Total Prohibition of Nuclear Tests. This Treaty is inter alia: necessary to prevent the development of a new generation of nuclear weapons. Norway is playing a central role in developing the Treaty’s verification mechanisms. I would like to mention that as part of the preparation for the Conference of Supervisors, we have at home a contact group on NPT issues where several central Norwegian research institutions, professional environments and non-governmental organisations are represented. This has been very useful in developing Norwegian priorities and attitudes. Internationally, Norway has cooperated closely over several years with similar NATO countries, such as the Netherlands, Belgium, Canada and Germany, with a view to protecting and further strengthening the credibility of the NPT Agreement. Together with this group of countries, Norway voted in favour of the resolution on nuclear disarmament at the UN General Assembly last year. In my view, the general wording of this resolution has helped to create a better cooperation climate now ahead of the Conference of Supervisors. The Government considers it very important that the Conference of Supervisors should have a positive and balanced outcome. This requires constructive commitment to the nuclear weapons states, as well as to the countries of the non-aligned movement. The responses we have received to the initiatives we have already taken, as I have mentioned in this article, have shown that Norway is well equipped to play such an active role.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e377	I am well pleased with the priorities of the Government. I would like to clarify a few things that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not have in mind. It was very positive that he stressed the need for new cuts from the original nuclear powers, especially the United States and Russia. But it's not enough just to talk about the need to get rid of nuclear weapons that they already have. It also needs to be made clear that there is no need to develop new nuclear weapons, which both the United States and Russia are now in the process of doing, and which will undermine the NPT. For the whole logic behind the NPT is that when those countries that are not allowed to have nuclear weapons have signed this, that they should not have the opportunity to get it, it is because the nuclear powers have also committed themselves to getting rid of what they already have and not to develop new ones. If they continue to store their nuclear weapons and develop new ones, there is a clear signal that they see nuclear weapons as an important part of their security policy, and thus other countries can do exactly the same, and then they undermine the entire regime. I also want to say a few words about North Korea. I do not want to criticise in any way that Secretary of State Helgesen has been in Pyongyang recently and has had discussions on this. But I want to say that there is a difficult balance, which now everyone has to go, between not being taken to income for support for the regime – which you can easily become when acting in Pyongyang, at least in the public there – and not wanting to change the regime. Both parts will be very harmful. What's an impression is that now you want to use this with nuclear weapons, both in North Korea and in Iran, to get something on the regime, to force regime changes. I will not oppose that, but it will therefore prevent an effective solution to the nuclear issue itself for these countries. That's what the non-proliferation regime really is about. It's not about getting rid of regimes, it's the nuclear weapons we're going to get rid of. I also want to ask the Foreign Minister if he has any assessment of what to do with India and Pakistan, which have nuclear weapons, and which we have seen have helped to spread them, especially Pakistan. Are there any possibilities to include them in the regime itself, without them being recognized as nuclear powers? I know that this is a very difficult matter, but nevertheless very important to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons – both to new states and to non-governmental actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e388	First, thank you for the main effort in the article to Thorbjørn Jagland. I think we have identified priorities that allow Norway to function positively in relation to a good outcome of the conference. That means that we need to prioritise some areas, so that's what we've done. It is good to know that we are in agreement with this. I do not disagree with the question of developing new weapons. There are several ideas that have been advanced, that concern. It is important to pursue those questions, not necessarily until the next week, but in other contexts. It is important to pursue many of these nuclear questions in addition to the NPT question. It is clear that nuclear weapons in particular, which change the thresholds, are worrying, and I can assure you that there will be vigilance. I also fully agree with Mr Jagland that the balance with states such as North Korea is not easy. But I think it is also important to be in dialogue, even with countries like North Korea. We haven't had much contact with North Korea. I think it is right that the visit we have now had has been carried out. There is no one, I think, who will see what has been said and done by the Norwegian side, as any kind of support for the regime. It will be very distant from the Norwegian political climate and all parties, I think, to express some kind of support for the North Korean regime. Seeking regime change is primarily a question of how to apply for regime change. It is clear that the North Korean regime, like a number of other regimes, is of a kind that Norway will in no way defend, will in no way support. Of course, we will see a development of the political system, among other things. in North Korea, as an important question. But that is not what we regard as a military question or a defence question, and that is what is the main issue in many ways. But it also gives me the opportunity to say that I fully share the assessment Thorbjørn Jagland had, that it is important to address some of the forces that are driving the conference and driving the development of nuclear weapons, both here and in other contexts. In India and Pakistan, I don't have a seductive sesame solution to that question. Our long-term objective is, of course, that these two countries join the NPT as non-nuclear weapons states. Of course, we are also concerned about these issues in our political dialogue with the two countries. But the solution, I don't have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e406	The right share of the inter-pellant’s perception that nuclear disarmament, arms control and the prevention of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are more important than ever. A central element of this effort is, of course, the Non-Proliferation Agreement, the NPT. One major challenge for the NPT is that four countries that are likely to have nuclear weapons or the ability to build such weapons, namely Israel, India, Pakistan and North Korea, are outside the Non-Proliferation Agreement. According to researchers Sverre Lodgård and Helene Revhaug at NUPI, the primary spread pressure is in the category of regimes that feel threatened with life, and they call North Korea and Iran. As they point out in an article in the journal International Policy: If North Korea or Iran establish itself as nuclear powers, it will have significant ring-effects both in East Asia and the Middle East. Therefore, in order to prevent further dissemination, it is essential to increase the digestion of the NPT. In this context, dialogue with those countries that have not joined the NPT is important, and it is important that Norway also contributes here. Another challenge for multilateral disarmament is the change in the approach of nuclear powers to non-proliferation. For example, Americans no longer accept the 13 steps for nuclear disarmament, which was agreed at the 2000 Supervisory Conference. Of course, the background to the American reverse operation is the terrorist incident of 11 September 2001. Without the conclusion of the multilateral disarmament agreements, the Right considers it more difficult to progress in non-proliferation. I also believe that there is a great reason to put a question mark on a regime change approach in this context. To the right, Norway considers that the implementation of the NPT Agreement must contribute to the future, as explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. And as the Foreign Minister said, weakening the NPT agreement is a serious challenge in terms of international peace and security. For this reason, it is good that Norway has produced a position paper, such as, among other things, promote new cuttings in the nuclear arsenals and include tactical nuclear weapons. There is also reason to hope that Norway’s support for the resolutions on nuclear disarmament during the UN General Assembly last year can provide a basis for better results during the Conference of Supervisors. On the right, we believe that we need to try to ensure progress in relation to the NPT, while also having a high profile in relation to the less formalised non-proliferation initiatives, such as: PSI. Norway’s appropriations, not least for nuclear safety work in North-West Russia, are an important contribution to international non-proliferation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e425	Let me first commend the interpellant for continuing an important tradition, an interpellation debate in front of important crossroads in nuclear disarmament – this time the crucial supervisory conference that starts in New York in May. Nuclear disarmament, arms control and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are an essential part of security policy work. We must fight against all kinds of weapons of mass destruction. However, nuclear weapons and radioactivity still stand in a special position in terms of death and destruction. Therefore, the goal must be the complete elimination of all nuclear weapons. The representative Haakon Blankenborg said in an inter-pelling debate on nuclear disarmament on 8 May 2003: ‘We really have no other way to go in this field than the contract path.’ I think we can all join. That is why the Non-Proliferation Agreement is also so important. It is the cornerstone of the work to prevent the proliferation and safe construction of nuclear weapons. However, the disarmament regime is under heavy pressure, as both the inter-pellant and the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed, both in terms of preventing the spread to new countries and in terms of halting the decline of strategic nuclear stocks. We need to return to a broad disarmament strategy, as adopted in 1995 and reinforced in 2000. When the agreement was extended indefinitely in 1995, the requirements for the supervisory process were reinforced by a set of ‘Principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament’. Despite this, several important processes have stopped up through the 1990s, as we know. The 2000 Supervisory Conference then saw a breakthrough of 13 major steps adopted in the future. The question is whether the steps now go in the wrong direction. It is necessary for Norway in New York to show strongly that the 13 steps need to be continued and the Non-Proliferation Agreement to be secured, and that we get a final document that makes this clear. It is also important for the Norwegian side to put pressure on nuclear power in order to gain an understanding and respect for the coherence of non-proliferation and disarmament. An increasingly important theme is the transfer of nuclear competence between nuclear powers. This is a theme that should also be addressed at the Conference of Supervisors. Restrictions should be introduced here. Then we can wonder how to deal with countries like Pakistan, which are outside, and which are also not defined as nuclear power, and where we know that there has been contact between Pakistan and North Korea. We're going to have to evaluate that further. Finally, it is worrying that the nuclear powers continue the nuclear arms race by modernizing and modifying existing weapons. There are challenges here for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e449	It has been very positive to be right here today, both from the inter-pellant and from the foreign minister. Not least, I'm glad to hear about the practical measures Norway has managed by organising meetings, by preparing things, so at least it's not up to you when you get to the supervisory conference. But it's clear that there's content that means the most. And as others have said, there is little doubt that the Non-Proliferation Agreement is under threat. Forty countries can be found – at least they are capable of doing so – to develop weapons, if we do not get results. No one has said that it will be, but they are able to do it. That's why it's so important to get a result. We know that for some countries the proof that one is a nation – when Norway became independent, it was about being a polarization – is that one actually has nuclear weapons, because in the opinion of many countries it is considered positive, precisely because they may not have the scepticism that we have on those continents where we have nuclear weapons. So it's very important that this information work goes on, and that Norway does its job the right way. El Baradei has pointed to more things than the Foreign Minister and the interpellant did. So it's a black market when it's about nuclear weapons, they're being traded, and there's a lack of control over fissile material that's actually loose. And as they say, terrorists have the ability to acquire this kind of weapon. To a large extent, Norway has a long tradition of obtaining what is most effective, as well as weapons, simply self-imposed limitations. We have it that we don't have nuclear weapons here in peacetime. We also have Greece, which sent home its nuclear weapons. This is a good basis for a policy that can be pursued. I'm aware of North Korea, and I'm aware of the Pakistan problem, but let's see what we can do on our own continent. We can go in and out discussing NATO's nuclear strategy internally in NATO. There may be a lot of possibilities to get results and work there internally. In concrete terms, the Conference of Supervisors is going to put more pressure on the United States and Russia to follow the principles of irreversibleity, transparency and verification under the Moscow Agreement, as well as to negotiate further deeper, verifiable and irreversible cuts in their total nuclear arsenals, including both warheads and delivery systems. This will be fully in line with what we have done in the past. It has to be possible, if not boycotting, to at least refuse to trade strategic goods as sanctions against states that are developing new nuclear weapons, just to prevent temptation from lying there. But the most important thing is that one achieves results.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e460	Previous supervisory conferences have produced promising results, and on the part of the Christian People's Party, we hope that progress will also be made this time in the work on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. It seems that there will be very difficult negotiations, and it will be a great task to maintain the consensus between 1995 and 2000. The non-proliferation agreement, the NPT, is not guaranteed success in the future if we do not strengthen it and ensure compliance, universality and enforcement. We are opposed to the launch of a new debate on objectives and practical steps that have already been agreed upon. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we call for a stronger balance between non-proliferation and disarmament. Non-proliferation and disarmament are closely linked and complementary to each other in order to achieve a safe and secure world for all. We believe that the UN must be repatriated as a disarmament policy forum, and the 1st Committee must become more relevant. In the case of the Moscow Agreement, it shall provide a strong reduction in strategic weapons by 2012. However, the agreement is not irreversible or transparent. It has no verification mechanisms, and it is very low in commitment. Nuclear weapons must be less important in security policy and defence strategy. I believe that the Conference of Supervisors must work towards the immediate start of real nuclear disarmament by nuclear weapons states. Pressure must be put on the United States, Russia and other nuclear powers to comply with commitments entered into to reduce the operational preparedness of nuclear weapons systems. Unless the five nuclear powers comply with their obligations under the NPT, other countries will not be willing to comply with their obligations. The reductions must be verifiable, open and irreversible. It's a problem that NATO countries themselves use nuclear weapons as deterrence. We want the United States to remove its tactical nuclear weapons from other NATO countries' land. Norway must be a driving force for the test termination agreement to enter into force as soon as possible. Development of new types of nuclear weapons is very problematic. They may trigger the need for new test explosions. Some types of mini-nuclear weapons, called ‘bunker busters’, can help to erase the distinction between conventional and nuclear weapons, thus lowering the atomic threshold. We need to get better control over the production of fissile material. The possibility of uranium being enriched under the cover of civil nuclear programmes must cease. Existing stocks of fissile material must be placed under IAEA control. The continued presence of India, Pakistan and Israel on the outside of the Non-Proliferation Agreement limits the scope of the Agreement, its legitimacy and its relevance. International nuclear smuggling networks pose a major problem when they are based in countries that are not members of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal of IAEA Director El Baradei to work for multilateral control over the technology that can produce material for nuclear weapons. I hope the Conference of Supervisors will lead to important progress in non-proliferation and disarmament.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e477	It is commendable that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has raised this interpellation debate – not because there is a great deal of disagreement in this Chamber on these issues, but because it is an important matter. Countries such as Iran and North Korea have undoubtedly contributed to a high level of international tension through their efforts to develop nuclear weapons. This stirs fear and unrest. There is now a great deal of attention to these countries, and that is good. But there is still a limited international debate on how, overall, we should move forward in nuclear disarmament. This is sad because of the special international situation that has arisen from the fact that terrorism has become so high on the agenda. There is a need for bilateral initiatives to be taken by the nuclear powers. We must have expectations of this, in parallel with the fact that we are safeguarding and developing the international legislation in this area, which we have laboriously built up. The 2000 Roadmap of the Non-Proliferation Agreement outlined a dangerous path to further nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, for which it was agreed by all Member States under the Non-Proliferation Agreement, including the United States. It was promising what happened then. But five years later, we can see that most of the elements of the 2000 Action Plan have not been followed up. The United States and Russia have not, as they promised, completed the decommissioning of their nuclear stocks. It itself increases the risk of dispersal and weakens the entire non-proliferation regime. At the Conference of Supervisors it is now important that the Conference succeeds in balancing the disarmament issue with the non-proliferation issue. Strengthening non-proliferation NPT obligations must be met by strengthening disarmament requirements. Here you have to refer to past commitments – both tracks are important. At the Conference of Supervisors, the Government should emphasise the commitments entered into, expectations of their respect and the need for further development. You have to show at all that you have ambitions in this area. It is gratifying for me to be able to express satisfaction with the level of ambition that I feel the Government has set before us today, where it is shown that one is ready to take initiatives in this area. Let me just finish by stressing the importance of strengthening the International Atomic Energy Agency. There is an important mechanism in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e488	Unfortunately, the world has come into a situation where the interest in acquiring nuclear weapons and renewing the weapons arsenal is greater in a number of countries than the interest in arming down and contributing to a nuclear-free world. We're on our way into a new and frightening nuclear age. I am pleased with this interpellation, and I would like to refer to a decision by the Stortinget last autumn, referred to in the Innst. S. No 49 for 2004-2005: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote a case for the Storting with a comprehensive review of the way in which and in which arenas Norway can best contribute to the work on disarmament and non-proliferation.’ I would like to get a comment on how far the government has come in this work. Today, the United States has over 10,000 nuclear warheads in its arsenal, 4,500 strategic and 800 tactical, which are outsourced and operational. Following the implementation of the Moscow Agreement in 2012, there will still be more than 6000 nuclear warheads available. Russia today has 17 000 nuclear warheads. In 2012, there will still be 2,200 operational strategic nuclear warheads in Russia and hundreds of tactical nuclear weapons. In addition, China, France, the United Kingdom, Israel, India and Pakistan have hundreds of nuclear warheads at their disposal, and none of them have given any clear promise of disarmament. So we have 28 000 nuclear warheads in the world today. There are 28,000 nuclear warheads too much. The nuclear threat is real, and nuclear disarmament is imperative in order to secure the future of humanity. On 17 November, President Putin declared that Russia is continuing its testing of new nuclear weapons, and that Moscow will soon have a state-of-the-art nuclear arsenal. England has just completed its tactical nuclear program and is planning new nuclear submarines. China is modernizing its nuclear arsenal. France has declared that they will be an atomic power, at least until 2040. North Korea and Iran are also working on the matter. So we're in a period of time characterized by upgrading rather than disarmament. The main problem that causes this development is that we have military doctrines that make us dependent on nuclear weapons. NATO, with the United States at the head, often proclaims its right to the first use of nuclear weapons. That's what's real. With such a reality hanging over us, it's not enough to hope that things go well in length. We need to do something as a nation to contribute more strongly, which is binding both for those who have nuclear weapons and for those who do not. This is difficult, and I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement on this in the Chamber. I think we need to try harder and with even greater determination also in areas other than those related to the conference to begin next week, not least within NATO and related to NATO's first-use strategies for nuclear weapons. There, Norway can make greater efforts in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e505	There seems to be a very broad consensus in this room on what should be Norway’s policy. I have noticed that several people have addressed what I said, namely the need to strengthen the control regime and the possibilities of the Atomic Energy Agency. Among other things, Åslaug took Haga up it. I think this should be an important Norwegian profile under the NPT, because it is linked to our traditions, not just to have multilateral agreements, but also to international systems to monitor compliance with the agreements. I think it's very, very important now. When we look at the history, the nuclear agency was unable to detect the presence of nuclear weapons in Iraq, but it was actually the same agency that insisted that Iraq no longer had nuclear weapons prior to the Iraq war. It shows the importance of having such an international agency capable of investigating what is really going on. I also want to underline what Bjørn Jacobsen said about the problem that nuclear weapons are considered to be political weapons. That's what happens when the atomic powers continue to store and develop new nuclear weapons. Then other countries can say the same thing that they also want this as political nuclear weapons. Among other things, one has wondered if Brazil can see it that way in the future. The major danger is that terrorist groups also regard nuclear weapons as political nuclear weapons, but in another way, namely that they should be used for political purposes. Of course, it will not threaten the whole globe, but it will create a massive destabilization if such nuclear weapons can be used on a smaller scale for the political purposes of these terrorist groups. That's why it's very important to hold on to the abolition of nuclear weapons. They may neither be used for military nor political purposes. Finally, with India and Pakistan. It's hard to be abastant in its recommendation of what should be done there, but I want to point out that Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, U.S.A., has suggested that somehow one should try to include Pakistan and India in this, not by recognising them as nuclear powers, but either by encouraging them to actually have their own statements, or by making it an additional protocol, so that they observe all the obligations under the NPT. The director of the NUPI here at home in Norway has also raised some of the same issue, and that may be something that one should seriously consider, although I know that it is very controversial to go to the step that countries that have developed nuclear weapons outside the NPT are de facto recognized as nuclear powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e521	The last comment from Thorbjørn Jagland tells us that this is an area full of dilemmas, where there are really no good solutions to any questions. It is clear that linking the two countries in this way without it being perceived as a recognition of what they have actually done is almost an impossibility. It's really where the dilemma lies, whether the world should bite it in itself and accept that this is the situation now, and build on it. But it's clear that it will have significant implications in itself. It leads me to another dilemma that I think we need to be clear about – and here the formulations must be huge moot – and that is the following: I agree that, of course, there must be a balance between disarmament and non-proliferation, but we also have to deal with that dilemma in such a way that we do not construct or provide opportunities for excuses for those countries that, despite the legislation, are seeking to develop nuclear weapons. We don't have to argue in such a way that you give them some kind of reason for continuing that line. It's one of the dilemmas that we have to be very conscious of, and that requires a lot of our formulations. Otherwise, I would just like to thank you for the debate. It will, of course, be the basis for the work to be done. But I also record that there is no major disagreement in the hall about the approach itself. This is the paradox that Åslaug Haga pointed out that the situation is very difficult and serious. Nevertheless, there is really a startling little international debate on how we should proceed. It's in itself a starting point for us to make sure that we have a sufficiently high profile here at home on these issues, and not least to have our priorities right. That's right, of course, as many people have said, that the NPT is not the whole answer. That's an important part of the answer, but there are also other arenas, and then there are also practical arenas that are important. I believe that the initiative we took to join the PSI work may not have been very significant, but it has at least been a practical measure. The same thing is the priority we have in the field of nuclear pollution in the north, which I think is important to keep up until that problem is solved, and that we have it as one of the most important priorities. I agree with what Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland said about control issues. In this area, too, we can confirm that we are doing something in practice, not just in theory, and it is important to make concrete contributions. Regarding Bjørklund's question, I will check it as soon as possible and come back to it. I don't have it in my head, but I will come back with the answer as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e536	Then there's case no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e554	We are in a critical phase of the WTO negotiations. There is a great responsibility on the Government to ensure a continued viable and large nutrient cluster linked to Norwegian agriculture. Agriculture is one of the most versatile and diversified clusters of nutrients in the country and currently accounts for well over 100 000 jobs. The processing industry, based on agricultural products, has a turnover of over SEK 70 billion and accounts for 20 pst. by industrial workplaces in Norway. This is the activity in Norway that gives the most ring-fenced effects in terms of value creation in other sectors. Agriculture is one of the largest purchasers of transport services in the country. Agriculture provides the basis for research in agriculture, forestry, technology and biology. The current agricultural negotiations in the WTO will be crucial to the extent to which we can have value creation and employment in Norwegian agriculture in the future, and the ring-fence of agriculture. It is a fact that agriculture is essential to ensure a country-wide settlement, and not least for us to be able to take care of the cultural landscape, which in turn is crucial for tourism. It is also part of this picture that our small-scale agriculture is an environmentally friendly agriculture. There are great values that are at stake, great values not only for the individual peasant, but for the Norwegian community. The Norwegian farmer is already hard pressed and has very little to go on. Many have little to go on. Fresh income development figures show that the working group of farmers has far less than half of the country's average income. While the average income for farmers is estimated to be NOK 153 000 in 2005, the average income for others is NOK 348 000, a difference of nearly NOK 195 000. Under that government, the difference in income has been part of, increased by NOK 30 000 from 2002 to 2005. In the same period, the number of use is reduced by more than 10 pst. This shows the seriousness of the situation when we are faced with heavy and decisive negotiations in the field of agriculture. A further deterioration in agricultural incomes will have significant consequences. The issue of market access is the most central issue for Norwegian agriculture in the WTO negotiations. Here the Government has focused on the concept of'sensitive products'. It is currently unclear how many products can be included as sensitive, and it is also unclear what customs reductions could be on what is ultimately defined as sensitive products. One member of the government expressed doubts as to whether milk could be defined as a sensitive product. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, how does the Government operate this concept, concretely what products does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think must be defined as sensitive in order for Norway to accept an agreement, and how much customs reductions can be accepted within these products? It is clear that a tariff, if one is set, will be at a much lower level than that with which Norwegian agriculture can live. The government must therefore be crystal clear that a proposal on tariff ceilings in the negotiations will not be acceptable to Norway. It must be clearly signalled to the other negotiating partners that this is the starting point for Norway. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, what is the status of the negotiations in relation to tariff ceilings? Let me also ask concretely: can the Government accept a toll? In any case, most tariffs will be subject to general reductions. The government must ensure that Norway, which has about 50 pst. of their customs duties as zero or at low duty, is paid for in the negotiations, in particular in the case of the fixing of new tariff quotas. The government must ensure that the general reductions in customs duties at different levels are as low as possible. Let me then ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What assessments does he make of this, and where does he think the pain limits go? The government has placed great emphasis on the so-called exemption in the framework agreement relating to blue boxes, namely that countries with a high level of aid should be treated in a special way. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, what does he actually expect to get out of this so-called exception? Perhaps the most important way to achieve a result that Norwegian agriculture can live with is to stick with the G10. There, we need to take a leading role to ensure that it is focused on Norway’s interests, and to ensure that our assessments are also tone-setting in the group. Proactive efforts and initiatives are required. It is also necessary to maintain a continuous dialogue with net importing countries in the south. These constitute the majority of the WTO member countries. Many poor countries stress that the protection of their own production is a matter of life or death in rural areas in their country. We have much in common with the poorest countries, who still have a weak voice in the WTO negotiations. The G10 and these countries should build alliances to ensure the right to decide on their own food policies, including the measures necessary to ensure their own citizens food. Cooperation must be developed through dialogue and analysis. The objective must be to identify areas of common interest in order to enable the G10 and the net food-importing countries to submit joint proposals or to support each other’s initiatives. What has the government done so far with regard to alliance construction between the G10 and the net importing countries in the south? That's another one of our questions. What initiatives will the Government take in the future to ensure close cooperation with these countries in the south? The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been concerned that Norway should not stand in the way of a result in the WTO negotiations. The central party agrees that it is important to be constructive, but we need to keep our national interests at the main focus as all other countries do. The objective of WTO negotiations is that all countries should benefit from trade liberalisation. It is the responsibility of the Government to ensure this for Norway. I miss a concrete analysis of what Norway is going to achieve overall in this round of negotiations. So far, we've only received non-obligatory assessments from the Government. Norway will – we probably both recognise this, both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I – lose on the agricultural negotiations. Many Norwegian jobs and value creation in Norway are at risk. The figures for turnover and employment are mentioned earlier and are specific sizes to be taken into account. However, what the Government expects to achieve in other areas of a concrete nature is very diffuse. The maximum potential is considered to be related to increased exports of services and establishments abroad, as produced by the Government. And my question is: what are the foreign minister's expectations about what this will mean for employment and value creation in Norway, and on what basis are these expectations based? In the light of the passing of time, I would just like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what plans he has made to take the initiative for the Storting to be involved in these processes. Now we have a review here today, but I also assume that the Government has plans to come to Stortinget and explain the negotiating positions, either in this forum or in other forums in Stortinget. Because there is no doubt that this summer the negotiations can prove to be very crucial for the further negotiation process. It would be very sad if we were to end up in the situation this year that we ended up last year, that the Stortinget did not have the opportunity to take thorough discussions until a sudden situation in Geneva was in which very important decisions had to be taken. So my final question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: In addition to the briefings that I expect us to get now on where the limits go for what Norway can tolerate in the negotiations, what further plans does he have to inform the Storting about these important questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e582	On several occasions, not later than last October, I have reported on the ongoing negotiations in the WTO. The debates following the presentations have shown that there is clear support from a broad majority in the Storting to the Government's line of negotiations. It is in Norway's interest to contribute actively and constructively to the conclusion of a new agreement between the WTO Member States. A new agreement will enable the WTO to continue its central role in the field of trade policy, which is crucial for such a small and open economy as that of Norway. In our foreign policy, we generally follow the objective of multinational solutions. Of course, this is particularly important also in trade matters. The representative Haga has a premise for his interpellation that I just have to say briefly, of course, is not right. But I have promised myself that I will not be annoyed by Hagas' constant attempt to create his own reality. I would therefore rather use the opportunity to talk about what is important, namely the WTO issues. The negotiations are now taking place too fully. Market access for industrial products, including fish, and agriculture are at the core of the process. But I believe it is important to establish that this is not an agricultural debate, but it is an agricultural debate as well. As the interpellant knows, for Norway, other important areas are also, in relation to fish, to rules and services, three offensive areas which, in addition to agriculture, are important during this overall round of negotiations. In both of the two areas now at the heart of the debate, the framework adopted by the WTO General Council on 1 August last year, which I briefed the European Parliament in October. I find it appropriate to recall the mandate for the Doha negotiations, which was accepted by all WTO members. This concluded, among other things: negotiations will lead to significant improvements in the market access for agricultural products, substantial reductions in trade distorting national agricultural aid and reductions with a view to phasing out export subsidies. There has been a broad political uprising in the United Kingdom about the government's accession to this mandate. Norway has therefore actively participated in all areas of negotiation since the Doha Round in 2001. In the agricultural field, we are working closely with the other countries of the so-called G10 group, which are established to ensure the defensive interests of Norway and the other countries in this group in the agricultural field. Norway is one of the key players, together with Japan, South Korea and Switzerland. I myself have visited a number of important actors in the negotiations, including: The United States, China, India, South Africa, Thailand, Indonesia and Hong Kong, hosting the WTO's next ministerial conference in December this year. In consultation with the WTO ministers of these countries, I have stressed the importance of communicating and explaining the problems Norway has in the field of agriculture, and I have highlighted the importance of maintaining a viable Norwegian agriculture. In parallel with the ongoing negotiations in Geneva, informal meetings shall be held, including: a series of so-called mini-ministerial meetings, where a twenty-third country meets together to try to identify solutions within a more limited framework. In addition to the major actors in international trade, other key WTO members are also involved. It is far from obvious that Norway is invited into such contexts, but it is now Norway, and it is an expression that Norway is an active player in these negotiations. We have participated in the mini-ministerial meetings that have been organised so far this year, in Davos in January and in Kenya in March. I will also attend the next meeting, which will take place in Paris at the OECD Ministerial Meeting on Tuesday next week. Norway is very active in the ongoing negotiations to safeguard our interests in agriculture and in the other areas where Norwegian businesses have clear offensive interests. As I mentioned, this applies, for example. services and industrial products, including fish. In the light of the ongoing salmon case with the EU, I would like to mention that we, together with, among others, Japan and Brazil, are one of the main players in the negotiations on improvements to the anti-dumping legislation. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, it is my job to assess developments in the round of negotiations in view of the overall interests of Norway. I think we all agree that it is in Norway's interest to contribute to reaching a broad negotiated solution. The representative Haga believes that there is reason to believe that much of the content of a new WTO agreement will fall into place at the main Council meeting in July this year. The aim of the Member States is to agree on the most important issues at the Hong Kong Ministerial Conference in December. It is also agreed that negotiations beyond the harvest should be conducted on the basis of concrete texts. The forms of negotiations on agricultural and industrial products, including fish, aim to present their first draft texts of agreements, i.e.: a so-called ‘first approximation’ during the month of July. These drafts will form the basis for further negotiations towards the Hong Kong Ministerial Conference in December. The draft texts will be based on input from the Member States in the rounds of negotiations in Geneva last summer. In this work, principles and political leadership from the so-called mini-ministerial meetings can also play an important role. In all these processes, Norway has been, and will continue to be, actively involved. I think I can safely say that the chairman of the agricultural negotiations is well aware of the Norwegian positions and the reasons for these. The representative, Haga, asks specific questions about the requirements promoted by the Government in relation to customs protection and internal support schemes. To this I would point out that the Government's objective is firm. We are working to maintain a space for action to pursue a national agricultural policy that is consistent with our needs, including in the form of an import protection that still ensures Norwegian production in important areas. However, the discussions that have taken place since last summer have not gone so far as to start discussing, for example. the level of tariff reductions. We are working closely with our allies in the G10 Group on the design of concrete negotiation and on the assessments of more tactical issues, as is the question of the timing of our various proposals. The Government will continue its targeted work in all relevant forums and in cooperation with neighbouring countries in the various areas of negotiation. The objective is that a new WTO agreement should best safeguard Norway’s overall interests. I can assure the representative Haga that the Government's objective of ensuring the necessary conditions for maintaining a viable agriculture in Norway is firm. The representative Haga also raised questions about contact with Stortinget. As I have said many times before – I both explain and discuss WTO issues with great joy, and I think it is important to keep in touch. I would like to remind you that I explained this immediately before the Storting broke up last year as far as it was clear at the time when I made the statement. At the time the Storting broke up, the information was brought as far as possible. I will, of course, aim to re-examine the format that may be desired, when there are new, actual circumstances to explain, and new choices to be made. There's something I've wanted to do and have done over the last few years. Of course, I will continue to do that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e622	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, an answer that I might have hoped could have been far more concrete. I'll ask you a few questions again. But before I do, I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has allowed himself to be annoyed by the text of the interpellation. So he doesn't have a reason. Today's Business January 28 says: ‘According to Petersen, it is very difficult to imagine a conclusion’ — the implicit conclusion of WTO negotiations — ‘that will not significantly cut support for agriculture and open up markets. At the same time, he considers it important to fight for other offensive demands from Norway, among them the inclusion of fish in a new agreement.’ I have never understood it so that what the Government has launched is ‘significant cuts in support of agriculture’. But let's get back to reality. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs once again: What products do you see on the part of the Government as part of the concept of'sensitive products', and what customs reductions, and how much customs reductions, do you think it would be possible for Norway to live with in relation to these different products? That's the one question I'd like to repeat very specifically. The second point I would like to make is that the so-called exemption in the framework agreement relating to blue boxes, namely that countries with a high level of support should be able to deal with in particular. My question is: what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs really expect to get out of this exception? I had more questions, but I choose to repeat just these two in the hope that I can get an answer to them. In addition, I will take up one more thing. After all, the final agreement will include an article which says something about the needs and, where appropriate, the direction of the further negotiations in the field of agriculture. Today, as we know, this is Article 20 of the agreement, which talks about the need for further liberalisation in the future. All indications suggest that a final agricultural agreement will be significantly lower for Norwegian agriculture than that contained in Norway’s negotiating point. Therefore, we are concerned that Norway must be very clear not to commit to major changes in future, changes in the importance of requiring further liberalisation – this because the adaptation to a new WTO agreement will be very demanding. It will take a lot of time, and it will take a lot of money, to come up with a new agricultural policy that will ensure a continuation of living agriculture throughout the country. [[President clubs]] Then you must not have reason to believe that the contract work that is now being negotiated will be overdue. [[The President clubs again.]] That's why...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e646	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e649	That's the president's club.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e654	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e657	My point was that I have promised myself that I will not be irritated by the representative Åslaug Haga, and I think I have actually done it. My only point was to say that the interpretation of my positions the representative Haga has in his interpellation, is beyond. Why, I don't think so important, but just let me repeat what was my message to the paper: we have to take inwards that the Doha mandate is there. I referred to it in my post, and I don't think it's very productive to spend a lot of time trying to rematch that kind of thing. There are leaders in this mandate that we cannot or should not negotiate. It is also true that agriculture is a very important area, but there are also three other important offensive areas. My point is that we now have to start focusing on them. Agriculture has dominated the opening phase, and it has been because it was the prerequisite for getting further into the negotiations. But it is also important for Norway that we get a balanced result. That's what's the actual keyword here. This means that with the Doha mandate at the back — and it will be implemented — it is important to remember that it is more than agriculture, and that we need to achieve something, so that the result is balanced. That's what we have to deal with. That was the message I gave to Today’s Business. I'm not going to get involved in how journalists write it all out, and I'm not saying that I was completely satisfied with the way this was written out, but that doesn't provide the basis for Åslaug Haga's conclusion in the interpellation. What's strange is that she knows that very well. So why the interpellation then is written like that, is a little bit unclear to me. But, as I said, I'm going to promise not to annoy myself about it. Then there were the purely concrete questions, and they went so far on numerically fixed and purposeful things. We didn't get there that I now want to put on the table completely concrete numbers and concrete points of view. The work is at the stage where we're going to make sure that the texts give us the opportunity to do what we want. What practical and operational will mean is it's just a little early to go into it. I just want to warn against something that was more obvious in the first than in the last post of Åslaug Haga. I think it is very important that we now do not conduct these negotiations with the requirement to add all the cards with the picture page up during the negotiations. The disadvantage is that you show how much you want to accept. So what you're going to tell others is that you can go all the way to the outer boundary. It's amazing that the old horse dealer party, the Center Party, really wants it as a treatment form on such issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e668	The important WTO negotiations are at an important stage in which all countries will fight for both their offensive and defensive interests. I assume that the government is doing what is possible to ensure the overall Norwegian interests. I would also like to add that it is very important for Norway, as a small country, that the WTO negotiations succeed, among other things. in the light of the major challenges facing the farming industry. At the same time, we must not forget that this round is primarily about safeguarding the fundamental interests of developing countries and creating a trade regime that is fairer for the poorest countries. This took into account the Stortinge when examining the development communication in January, when a majority underlined: ‘In order for developing countries to have access to the rich country markets, all forms of export subsidies and dumping of food from rich countries to developing countries must cease. In addition, rich countries need to reduce the distorting trade, internal support while respecting the importance of agriculture for cultural landscapes, the environment, and housing.» The increase highlighted the specific needs of developing countries for market access to the rich country markets. This requirement from developing countries can be demanding for Norwegian agricultural industries, which have been quite protected. We will face the serious challenge of the Norwegian agricultural industry and Norway as a result of a new WTO legislation. There is a concern in agriculture about the consequences of a new agreement, but it is also a much greater realism and willingness to change and innovation than we saw just a few years ago. It is important to ensure regions where agriculture is particularly important and where the nutritional basis is weak. Among other things, mountain regions in Norway already have a weak basis for settlement. The same applies to fjords and valleys. Then we need a set of tools to develop business in these areas. Then we need to focus much more on building development measures and to develop a new policy. We need to have a full toolbox for the districts with the tools we are willing to use to ensure the continued viability of rural communities. We need to put in clear leadership in how we can manage the cultural landscape, avoid re-growth, secure the environment and settle. In a WTO solution, the Workers' Party will carry out a full review of the sector to ensure that these important values are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e686	The objective of the cooperative government for the agricultural negotiations in the WTO is clear: there shall be a solid basis for continued viable agriculture in Norway which contributes to the maintenance of rural settlements, food security and the preservation of the cultural landscape. At the same time, the Center Party must recognize that we are living in a world that is becoming increasingly globalized. In this area, it's naive to think that it's strong that stands alone. It also applies to the different countries. The WTO is important for Norway. For a small country with a very open economy, it is particularly important to have clear driving rules for international trade. That is why the agricultural negotiations must also be seen in an overall perspective. The ongoing round of negotiations is called the development round. It's not a floss. The stronger integration of developing countries in world trade is a necessary condition for development. The goal is a solid partnership between the countries of the north and the south, so that the Millennium Goals on halving the world’s most extreme poverty can be achieved by 2015. The removal of export subsidies and a large reduction in other national aid schemes are the main elements of developing countries’ requirements. In this context, the President of Uganda, Mr Museveni, said: ‘Nevertheless, Africa can have real market access to the rich countries’ markets for its products, in particular agricultural products, where Africa has a comparative advantage, or the rich countries can recognise that they prefer to continue Africa’s dependence on the rich countries’ wealth.’ Trade, including agricultural products, is therefore an important instrument in the fight against hunger and poverty. Our experience shows that developing countries that have invested in a more open economy and free trade have experienced stronger growth with higher employment and earnings than countries that have had a more introverted development strategy. This is pointed out, among other things. in the UNDP report ‘Making Global Trade Work for People’. Such elements are also part of a debate on the WTO and agriculture. For Norway, a balanced final result is essential. Lack of progress on e.g. services and legislation are therefore a source of concern and a challenge in the run-up to summer and Hong Kong. The overall negotiated solution is important for Norway and should also contain results on access to the market for industrial products, fish and services. When the Right assesses the outcome of the Doha Round, we will have an overall perspective on the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e706	On 17 June, the representatives of the League march against Geneva because they believe that the right to produce their own food is threatened by the WTO. We had hoped that the agricultural organisations had given priority to a different strategy — a strategy for conversion. It would have been much better to provide for the ongoing and much clearer conversion of agricultural policies. Because it must be clear that the WTO is going to change Norwegian agriculture relatively strongly. It is in Norway’s interest to have free and well-functioning international trade, and then agriculture must be included in this process, in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs was also involved. I remember the post that former WTO leader Mike Moore had a few years ago at the NHO annual conference. He said something like Norway wants to have full free trade for everything under water, while we were eager champions of protectionism and the preservation of special arrangements for everything grown over water. He asked himself relatively incomprehensible to this. It is unrealistic to expect WTO negotiations to meet the expectations of the Centre Party and organisations. Norway is among the richest countries in the world, and we cannot laugh at maintaining established arrangements. We must look forward to a substantial reduction in Norwegian agricultural aid and customs-based protection, and that requires a policy mix on our part. The Central Party should also be concerned about how to pursue a realistic agricultural policy. Then we have to get away from static reasoning that the farmers will continue to behave as they have always done. This means that we must introduce free competition at all stages of the food value chain, full competition within while we still have customs-based external protection. Today, competition is limited through market regulation at turnover levels, regulatory export, price and market cooperation through production restrictions and the agricultural agreement. This means that Norwegian consumers pay far more for Norwegian food than is necessary under our difficult climatic and topographical conditions. With reasonable agricultural conversion, if you come up on a certain scale, it will be fully possible to compete with Swedes, Danes, stallions and Germans. The production of both milk and beef will then be possible in addition to power-feed-based productions and the green sector. But then the conversion should come in full force at all times in the spring's agricultural settlement. Understanding of a completely necessary transition must be demonstrated. Otherwise, the process can become brutal for many farmers further ahead. We're at risk of getting a complete diet. Therefore, the prescription must be to implement a realistic agricultural policy before the customs barriers fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e718	I note that the inter-pellant and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are different in parts of the text. I stick to what was said last time we discussed the WTO here in Stortinget. Then it wasn't the only party that wanted Norway to vote no. At the same time, there were certain limitations, certain notices, from different batches. I'm not going to ram all the points that the Foreign Minister promised he would bring. It's the ones I think of as the most important points, because it was framed up a lot of things. I assume that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government will never come back here without saying that they have at least worked hard in relation to those points and those underscores. It'll show you the time, but it'll be exciting to see it. I thought the interpellant should have honor, because what it actually opens up to is to ask: What kind of agriculture are we going to have in Norway? And she immediately asks, "Let's start out." What's a sensitive product? How dare you also ask, where is the pain limit for customs protection? Because it's clear that without an import protection, we don't have a Norwegian agriculture. The last week, the negotiations between Arla, a Swedish-Danish agricultural giant, and Campina, a Dutch agricultural giant on the marketing side of milk, broke down. We're getting so small, we're getting smaller and smaller, and we see that developments down in Europe and on the world market are getting bigger and bigger. We know that in the future we will have an agriculture that will not have a chance to compete at a possible world market price. We have had that debate before, that there is no real world market price. But we know that we want an agriculture that in the future will depend on support. From the SV's side, employment and housing are the main reasons for maintaining an agricultural sector, while at the same time it is a professional challenge for those who are going to operate in the industry. I think it has to be possible to find solutions to that. I think it has to be possible to find those possibilities. It is possible that the Minister of Agriculture should not have been here today, but he should be much more involved in what has to do with the WTO. We have to be prepared for the changes that are coming, because there is no doubt that there will be any changes. Interpellant also asks: What are Norwegian interests? I assume that it not only applies to Norwegian agricultural interests, for this also applies internationally, to which Vallersnes was also involved. This is also about poor farmers in the south. Now I believe that we have seen far too little of the possibilities that exist for Norwegian farmers to have common interests with poor farmers in the south. It's also true, if it's true what Vallersnes referred to from the UNDP report, that countries that have done the very best are the ones that have slowly but surely dissolved their markets. Once on, they might be e.g. built up a processing industry in agriculture, they could take advantage of competition. That is the slow approach Norway must also take in Geneva.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e731	The Christian People's Party will work for a sustainable agriculture throughout the country and for a viable food industry. We have an agriculture that we're proud of, and that we want to hold on to. Agriculture is essential for the maintenance of living areas, scattered settlements and for the strengthening of the rural economy. The ongoing WTO negotiations challenge us, and we need to be active to safeguard our interests. But we also need to be so realistic that we see that there will be changes in agriculture. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that if we do not make enough adjustments, the consequences of the WTO agreement could be dramatic for our agriculture. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway must therefore find remedial measures and conversions that ensure a viable agriculture. We must work to increase the competitiveness of the Norwegian food sector, and we must strengthen the variation in Norwegian agriculture. On the other hand, the objective of maintaining living agriculture must not conflict with development policy. This round of negotiations takes a great deal of account of the demands of developing countries, because it is decided that the negotiating round should focus precisely on this. In recent years, more and more emphasis has been placed on trade as a central tool for reducing poverty in developing countries. Lack of market access, not least for agricultural products, is defined as a central issue. Assistance alone is not enough to meet the poverty challenges. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive to see that developing countries have now become a real force factor in the WTO, and we will work to improve their framework conditions relating to debt, trade and investment. Norway needs to be better able to support the demands of the developing countries in WTO negotiations, while at the same time safeguarding our agricultural interests in the best way – not only in terms of access to the rich countries' markets, but also in terms of poor developing countries' desire to protect their own markets. Norway must open up more trade with all developing countries, not just the poorest. We should increase imports from developing countries at the expense of imports from countries, for example. in the case of sugar. We must work to create greater targeting within the WTO system in relation to the Millennium Goals. Export subsidies hit developing countries hardest. They should therefore be wound up. Through the UN, all countries have adopted the Millennium Goals, which are to halve the number of poor by 2015. It will also require something from us. We need to focus on what caters to the poorest, even if it could create challenges for us. The Christian People's Party believes that farmers and others in Norway are prepared to help the poorest countries, and that it is possible to combine a good development policy with an effective agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e746	The previous round of WTO negotiations included: agree that the countries with the highest customs duty on agricultural products should reduce customs duties the most. Norwegian agriculture is entirely dependent on protection against imports of cheap food because of climatic conditions and a high level of costs. We live so far north that that's where the globe is fixed. The outcome of this round of negotiations can therefore be fatal for Norwegian agriculture. The next round of negotiations will include: adopt concrete tariff reductions on the basis of previously established principles. Here, the Norwegian authorities, in cooperation with the agricultural organisations, must promote precise requirements and clearly show that there is a limit to what Norwegian agriculture tolerates from customs reductions. The question is whether or not we should have a national agricultural policy in Norway. The coastal party wants strong and national agriculture! It is therefore important for agriculture to maintain the right to limit food imports via quota schemes. Of course, it is possible to compensate for reductions in customs duties and quotas in order to increase agricultural aid, but then agriculture becomes too dependent on the fact that the Stortningen has at all times sufficient willingness to grant the necessary funds. In the view of the Coastal Party, maintaining a wide range of instruments to protect the industry will provide greater stability and predictability for Norwegian farmers. The coastal party wants a farmland that produces food. It is then important to link the aid to the production of food. We must be on guard against the tendency to transfer large parts of agricultural aid from food production to landscape care and land support. The Coastal Party considers that it is natural to support the requirements for the closure of export aid. It is totally unacceptable that rich countries, through export aid for their own agriculture, can compete with developing countries' agriculture on their own domestic market, because either countries themselves or for example. The EU and US authorities are subsidising food in such a way that import food is cheaper than the self-produced food of the developing countries. Norwegian WTO negotiators must be willing to vote against negotiating solutions that are unacceptable to Norwegian agriculture. In such a situation, it will be essential to build alliances with other countries that need protection of their own agriculture. Only by sticking together can these nations force through acceptable negotiation solutions in the WTO. The WTO should be more involved in the fight for control of its own agriculture by the poor countries. It is totally unacceptable that multinational companies can sell patented cereals that prevent farmers from using their own crops as seed. We must work internationally to ensure that developing countries are guaranteed ownership of their own agricultural and water resources. In Norway, there are interesting things about the right to use self-produced seeds. The Ministry of Agriculture has recently consulted on a proposal for a new law on plant processing rights. It is proposed that the breeder of new plant varieties be given the exclusive right to exploit the variety under certain conditions. In practice, this means that the owner of the plant variety takes a fee when the plant variety is used. It means in plain text that farmers do not own their own seed and their own seed potatoes. I am not surprised that the Government is promoting this proposal. The government gives away natural resources such as fish and power and will privatise large land areas owned by the country. You just have to ask yourself, what's next? Do you have to pay a breath fee soon?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e763	The answer to the last question is that the next item is this article. The interaction text reads: ‘This is spectacular and dramatic.’ What is alarming and dramatic is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has expressed doubts as to whether Norwegian agricultural policy can be fully satisfied. With respect to reporting, it would have been more perceptive and dramatic if Norway had had a foreign minister who had expressed himself with a sense of security about the outcome of as complex negotiations as the WTO negotiations. Norwegian agricultural policy is an important theme. WTO negotiations are with respect to notifying an even more important topic. But the most important thing is to establish that it is not one and the same thing. To the extent that one in this room later feels like it's the same thing, it's an expression of a serious disturbance of proportion. Nor is it so easy in WTO negotiations that each country, as the interpellant said, can concentrate on its own national interests. The problem is that there are hardly any countries participating in WTO negotiations that have only one national interest. Most have many national interests, differing national interests and more: conflicting national interests that they will try to satisfy by a comprehensive solution with which no one will be 100% satisfied but with which everyone will be able to live well. It is a fundamental national interest for Norway to contribute to the outcome of these negotiations by the poor countries, so that they can increasingly have their maritime rights, which we are committed to having, their independence, and not always depend on the goodwill of the rich and powerful countries of this world. That is not the result that can be achieved – after all, there is a development round we are in the WTO negotiations – unless countries that Norway is willing to make an active contribution to putting some of our internal interests into the pot that will provide a satisfactory result. So finally, it would have been both alarming and dramatic if Norway were to conduct complicated international negotiations in the way the interpellant wants, namely, by opening negotiations by proclaiming how far one is willing to go, or even more: how far one is not willing to go. In this way, international negotiations are not allowed to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e788	There is no doubt that important values are at stake in agricultural negotiations. This is about safe food, it's about housing, it's about the food industry, it's about cultural landscapes. The negotiations in Geneva in July this year could prove to be important. I think that's how non-governmental organisations, business organisations, learned from the process that was last year, and that the government will be followed up in a much closer way during the negotiations last summer than it was last year. That I think will be a strength for the process, and it will help the government to stand firm. In the foreign minister's reply here today, I have heard something about the process, but I have in practice not received an answer to the questions in the interview about the negotiating mandate of our negotiators. I had not expected the Minister for Foreign Affairs to go into detail on the negotiating mandates of the negotiators, I had not expected the Minister for Foreign Affairs to go into detail on where the pain limits go for Norway. Both the representative Wohnning and Minister for Foreign Affairs Petersen consider me to be a total novice in relation to this kind of process, but I actually didn't expect you to go into detail here. However, I had expected – and it cannot be considered as detail – that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for example. would indicate what is on the Norwegian side in the exception that was negotiated in a blue box. This has been sold in as a big victory. One did it last year. But one is not able to say a single word about what the substance is in this. It is not a matter of detail related to a negotiating mandate to talk about which productions, how many products you consider to be sensitive, or to give some indication of where you think customs reductions could be fair or inappropriate. It is, of course, possible, if you have the will, to give something more than the Minister of Foreign Affairs has done today. We must therefore note that we have a foreign minister who does not want to say anything about the actual content of the current negotiations. And we just have to realize that this is about being involved in other ways than being based on getting information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e799	I find that the interpellant's ability to interpret my positions has not improved particularly since the interpellant was written until it was presented. I think I've learned to live with that over these months. I just want to remind you that on the part of the Government – both the Minister of Agriculture and I – we have several times explained where we have stood, how far we have gone, how far we have been able to go. I would also like to say that we have managed these negotiations in such a way that Norway is now among the countries that, among other things, are. be invited to ministerial meetings. That means that what Norway thinks about these things, that means something, that means a lot. I would like to repeat that I would very much like to discuss with the Stortinget where we stand and how we should move forward. But I must also note that once we have had these conversations, here or in other forums, I feel that I have a safe basis in Stortingen for the approach we have. Norway has an agenda that not all parts, to say it that way. This must therefore be handled in such a way that we are considered an interesting partner for cooperation and dialogue, and we do. The exception in the blue box is just coming in because Norway has negotiated the way we have done. It's also called the Norwegian clause, and I think that's an expression that we've handled this correctly here. I still don't think it's a good idea that in open meetings I define how far we're willing to go – or in other ways: how much we're willing to give up before the limit is reached. I don't think that's a very good idea. Otherwise, I would like to tell Jacobsen that of course we have a good and extensive contact with the Minister of Agriculture. This is an important part of the negotiations, although it is not the whole of the negotiations. I think we can say that we are well and well connected, and have been in the whole process – and I will make sure that we will still be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e808	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e824	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2179]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e842	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2179]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e860	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2179]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e878	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2179]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e896	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2179]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e914	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2180]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e933	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2180]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e951	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2180]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e969	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2180]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e987	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2180]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1005	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2180]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1024	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2180]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1042	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2181]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1060	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2181]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1078	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2181]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1096	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2181]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1114	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2181]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1133	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2181]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1151	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2182]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1169	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2182]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1187	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2182]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1205	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2182]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1223	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2182]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1231	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1264	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1271	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Knut Storberget on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 11 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for forced transfer to the Conflict Council in cases where children under the age of 18 have committed a criminal act. Derogations shall be made in respect of morality.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1290	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Socialist Left, sent by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 11 April 2005: ‘The Government requests the adoption of legislative proposals to ensure that the person for whom a residence ban has been imposed is heard to protect when it is a matter of lifting or extending a residence ban.’ The central party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1311	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the penalty framework be raised to prison for 30 years where it is specified by the law of the day for up to 21 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1330	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 April 2005: ‘The ruling asks the Government to examine various proposals for schemes with its own juvenile courts or schemes in which the court is set up as a juvenile court, as well as the instruments and forms of reaction which such a court should have.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1349	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Criminal Enforcement Act in which, for infringements of provisions with a penalty framework of 3 years and upwards, there shall be no open settlement and/or parole until four-fifths of the sentence are served and no open settlement and/or parole shall be granted in retiring cases.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1368	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote legislative amendments in accordance with the proposal of the majority of the Criminal Court Commission as to who should be able to judge the special reactions of the transfer to forced mental health protection and forced care.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1387	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 April 2005: ‘The government is asking for a state sub-funding in addition to the municipality’s responsibility for basic municipal services, in cases where a person is sentenced to psychiatric treatment due to psychosis.’ The President has been informed that the Central Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1409	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate and propose a system of ‘plea bargain’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1428	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider proposing that the Criminal Code should include a provision to be punishable by the use of violence when a child is a witness.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1445	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider concluding agreements with rehabilitation and rehabilitation institutions for the implementation of compulsory care, compulsory mental health protection and paragraph 12 zoning.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1462	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a criminal code on violence in close relations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1479	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to present amendments to the Accounting Act § 3-3, seventh paragraph so that the statement in the Annual Report shall also include an indication of the company’s current position on remuneration of senior employees and on the expected development of these benefits in the coming years, as stated. § 7-31.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1498	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 April 2005: ‘The Government requests the Government to make changes to paragraphs 6 to 5 of the Stock Exchange Regulation so that an interim financial report is required to contain a forecast of the amount of benefits to the Executive Director for the current financial year, as set out below. Section 7-31 of the Accounting Act. The forecast shall be based on balance sheet date conditions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1517	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 April 2005: ‘The Government requests the Government to present amendments to the provisions of Chapter 7 of the Accounting Act in such a way that all relevant provisions require that if other employees have benefits in line with or higher than benefits to the Executive Director, they be disclosed.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1536	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 April 2005: ‘The Government requests the Government to present amendments to the provisions of Chapter 7 of the Accounting Act in such a way that all relevant provisions require that, where senior management has more than one office or function in the company, this must be disclosed together with an indication of where they operate in the company.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1555	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 April 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide appropriate information to the Government on the draft regulation on development contracts before the entry into force of the law and regulation.’ The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, so the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against. – No one has protested, so then we assume that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1576	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 19 April 2005: ‘The Government is asking for detailed regulations clarifying key concepts of the Foreign Affairs Act: refugee, strong human interests, immigration policy considerations, strong links with the rich and significant issues of doubt.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1595	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 19 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to close the Foreign Affairs Department and transfer responsibility to the Ministry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1615	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 19 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with concrete proposals for the Government to further acquire general instruction rights in relation to the handling of foreign affairs in the UDI.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1633	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 19 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a review of all the conventions to which Norway relates, as well as an assessment of their limitations in relation to the freedom of action of Norwegian politicians.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1652	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to incorporate the United Nations International Convention of 21 December 1965 on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination into the 1999 Human Rights Act and to give the Convention the same precedence as the other core conventions as per. today is incorporated in this way.’» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, so the President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1675	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 April 2005: ‘The Government is asking the Government to initiate work on the implementation of a comprehensive anti-discrimination law in line with international obligations and the protection of Article 14 of the ECHR and Article 26 of the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, so the President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1696	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 April 2005: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and present the necessary changes to the system of free legal assistance relating to the anti-discrimination law, so that no legal loss occurs as a result of a weak personal economy.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party also support this proposal, so the President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-26.ana.ud721e1720	There is no record.
