ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e29	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Åsa Elvik. – Other proposals are not available, and Åsa Elvik is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e39	The President will first note that we aim to be finished during this morning's meeting. The President will – if necessary – extend the meeting a little beyond the regulatory time, if appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e53	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the independent representatives shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e64	Odelstingen today has proposals for a new common law for state and private universities and colleges. There has been a thorough and good discussion in the committee, and I would like to thank all the parties as rapporteur for the fact that there has been a clean process. The Ministry has also contributed generously to the preparation of legislative changes in line with the Committee's recommendation. I am also of the opinion that we have achieved a good result. Initially, it was the Stortinget that asked the Government to design a common law for universities and colleges in relation to the treatment of quality reform. A common law will facilitate greater equality of treatment between State and private higher education institutions in terms of professional qualifications, business requirements and student rights and obligations. A common legislative framework also allows nationally coordinated policies for both State and private institutions. Of course, the Labour Party believes that education in Norway is a public responsibility, and that the main emphasis of higher education activities will and will take place in the public educational institutions in the future. Universities and higher education institutions are the most important institutions of society for basic research and research-based education. This requires professional freedom and institutional autonomy. Education and research must not be made dependent on the short-termity of the market and one-sided utility orientation. These considerations have been important for the Workers’ Party in addressing the major issues related to the government’s legislative proposal. In my post I would also like to mention the issues that have received the most attention in the position and in the treatment of new common law. The working party is particularly pleased with the outcome we got in terms of management and governance structure. The government wanted to introduce a new mandatory governance structure at its universities and higher education institutions with an employee as Executive Director and External Directors. An overall committee believes that there should be freedom of choice for the institutions with regard to the management and governance structure based on today's main model with elected Vice-Chancellor as Chairman. Institutions may, by a qualified majority of the Board of Directors, at least eight, choose another management model from the options contained in the legislative proposal of the Committee. It's only been two years since a monotonous growth went into today's management model. Universities and higher education institutions have implemented the quality reform in a good way. They have shown a high degree of change competence in this process. While there are a number of challenges in the coming years, the Labour Party is of the opinion that the institutions are well equipped to meet them. In addition, there is reason to recall that institutions are very different in size, subject area, traditions and tasks. I am pleased that an almost unanimous committee does not see the need for a new mandatory governance model. It's a little surprising, but I'm glad that the government also rejects Clmet's proposal. There has not been a good deal of progress towards the sector in question or in the political environment. Someone might say that it is not unique for this matter. Or maybe the Council of State has been out to arouse the democratic commitment of the university and higher education sectors. A majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, writes in its opinion that: «the essence of knowledge itself is democratic. It is created by new knowledge based on general knowledge and by sharing knowledge with others. This makes knowledge and research institutions one of our most important contributors to an active democracy. The majority will therefore stress the importance of these institutions themselves being organised and operating democratically". – It is difficult to find a stronger argument for today’s control model with the selected Vice-Chancellor. The Workers' Party is also pleased that, in the Committee's position, we have had a clearer legalisation of the free principle of higher education. I choose to believe that the Government's intention was to legislate the applicable free principle. However, the legal wording of the term ‘generally’ created doubts among the institutions and the students of the country and opened up new forms of self-payment – I underline that I could open up new forms of self-payment – for example. study fees. The discussions internationally do not diminish such doubt or uncertainty. The Workers' Party and the Government's parties agreed that a person should legislate on the free principle and continue today's legislation and practice. I am pleased that these parties agreed on a legal text that clarified the main principle, but did not extend public financial responsibility to apply, for example. the continuing training sector and the online or decentralised provision of training. The free principle shall ensure equal rights to education for the provision of education within the public remit of the higher education sector, where this is publicly funded. Education shall be accessible to all. Self-payment studies shall not be at the expense of the ordinary educational activity but shall be in addition to the publicly funded offer. I welcome the commitment that public institutions have shown in this field to expand access to higher education. All higher education shall be research based. Society needs independent expertise in all areas of knowledge, policy correction and debate. The Working Party and the Committee consider that a high level of professional autonomy for each scientific staff is an important premise for the independence and legitimacy of research. I'm glad that a joint committee has asked the department to start work on exploring the possibility and consequences of a legalisation of academic and artistic freedom. The Labour Party hopes that the Ministry will give priority to this work, so that the Stortinget will receive rapid feedback. Research also has a value in itself. It is important that individual scientific staff have their research time protected. A majority of the Committee would like to see today's system at the universities of the 50 pst. of the time allocated to research by these employees shall be continued. The working party is also concerned with the provision of adequate time for colleges, so that scientific staff can also have time for research. On the positive side for the employees, I would like to stress that the Committee has ensured employee representation on the board of NOKUT – if not with full rights, which was the wish of the Workers' Party. Of course, that is not all in the discussion of this legislative proposal that the Labour Party will be pleased with. The Government Parties extend the scope for annual and temporary employment. We believe that a review of the provisions concerning the protection of employees' employment and the use of temporary employment should have been awaited in the course of the follow-up to the Labour Law Committee. At the same time, there are already a large number of temporary posts in universities and higher education institutions, and the Workers' Party cannot see that there are specific circumstances in which universities and colleges have more access to temporary employment than other sectors. The Labour Party is subsidiaryly satisfied that we will get this back as a matter of our own, assessing the need for our own regulations in the Higher Education Act on annual targets and temporary employment after the Stortinget has addressed the issue more generally. We could have wished for greater demands related to the work on equality between women and men in academia. The composition in different job categories, and especially in peak positions, is far from satisfactory. Despite these objections, I am nevertheless of the opinion that the majority of the committee has made important and necessary changes to the draft law of the ministry. You have to take with you the political victories one thing gives; it's part of the political life. At the same time, I would like to conclude by saying that the Committee's position and the Odelstinget's decisions today, with broad support, are primarily an advantage for the university and higher education sectors as a whole and a result of democratic commitment. Now they can focus on their primary tasks and become the best in research and education. With this, I address the proposals to which the Workers' Party is associated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e117	The representative of Vidar Bjørnstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e122	There is reason to thank the rapporteur for a good job and for a clean process in the Committee, which has led to the likely adoption of the proposal today with very few changes, but with some clarification. The rapporteur began his speech by saying that the Workers' Party wants the public to be in charge of higher education in this country, and that is the view that emerges from the vote on page 9, where a minority emphasises that: «public ownership of central educational institutions is an important principle. The social role of institutions is best played in the community.’ Does this mean that the Workers' Party would really rather have seen that we didn't have private colleges, and actually is contrary to the existence of the private colleges that we have today? And: Does the Workers' Party think that the private colleges are not performing their social role in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e134	Our heart is at public education institutions in prioritising resources and in strengthening and improving supply. However, the private higher education sector is an important part of the overall education provision in Norway. It has emerged from history according to needs such as: is not covered within the public education system and is an important complement. We have not withdrawn any funding on the grounds that the private higher education system is not also an important part of the total education provision. We believe that it has a place, and that is why we also agreed to ask for the common law we have for treatment here today, so that we should have greater equivalence in professional qualifications and requirements for businesses and guarantee students' rights and duties. But that doesn't mean, and that's where I'll refer to the setting, that there's some automatic equality of economics related to professional equivalence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e143	SV and the Workers' Party largely agree on most of the amendments contained in the legal text. But in one area, we separate teams, and that's the free principle. We need and wish for a stronger and clearer clarification that higher education is free and free of charge. We also want the Storting to go further into this area, go into these grey zones, and draw up the boundaries more clearly. The Labour Party has now been given a majority, together with the government parties, to do so free of charge, but at the same time they propose that today's system continue. And we know that in today's system, there are quite a number of payment schemes, among other things. online. Then is my question to Vidar Bjørnstad: Antar Vidar Bjørnstad and the Workers' Party that, with the principle now adopted, we will have an extension, that there will be more offers for which the institutions can make payments in the future, and that today's system will continue by giving an opening to self-payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e150	I agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam, that it may be useful to have a discussion about the vast pool of knowledge. That's interesting, and we've jointly asked to get back a case where we can look at the entire continuing education sector, and where both paid-for-studies and those who are free of charge in the knowledge pool should be included. But what is the starting point for the treatment of this law was input from the hearing bodies, mainly the students, who were concerned that removing the wording ‘as a general rule’ in the legal text would give an opening to introduce what is now the big discussion internationally, namely general tuition fees. We want to continue today's legislation and practice, and I haven't got a single idea that someone has been opposed to the possibilities of offering both from the outside and from public institutions that could be used to do so, and for example. make an own-payment for. It would simply be to stop the possibility of such a development if we were to say, here and now, that everything should be free, even in the vast pool of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e157	It's about two things. One is what the Workers' Party actually says in its program on private actors: ‘Private actors are important and necessary in addition to public higher education.’ So my question is, what kind of principle is what you use in measuring funds? Is that the principle of chance? Is that the principle of political opinion? How do you move in relation to these two possible principles? Is it so that the private actors go against leaner times if the Labour Party is ruled? Or is it that they will have a reasonable increase that will enable them to be an important and necessary addition to public higher education? So very quickly: the Labour Party also says that they will give educational institutions a stronger autonomy. Is it not a good self-government to let the rulers choose their chairman themselves, if they choose the solution that they appoint the principal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e169	I don't think I'm going to continue the debate on using the words 'additional' or 'additional' in referring to the private university offer. I have concluded that this is part of the total education offer in Norway. We are currently dealing with a common law for both public and private universities and colleges. We are in favour of ensuring both the rights and obligations of the students and that we have to make equivalent demands for the operation and maintenance of professional qualifications. But it is still the case that in prioritising resources, we will give priority to the public university and higher education system. I would just like to remind you that when the representative Sortevik and the Progress Party were to give priority to the budget, they chose for example. to cut $3 million. kr to be used to monitor the accessibility of disabled persons in the public university and higher education systems. That is also a priority. We disagreed. When it's an employee principal, we think it's inexcusable to ask the board to appoint its own chairman. Then there would be difficulties in recruiting external board members.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e180	The central party also wants to challenge the Labour Party on what these people are saying about the free principle, that is, the principle that higher education should be free. It is true that today’s proposed continuation of current practices means the continuation of a very different practice. When one today actually confirms it, it can mean further different practices than what we see today. It also applies both to payment rates and, of course, to the different offers that exist. Is it the case that the Labour Party does not understand the great importance of a decentralised educational provision, an offer based on distance learning, in practice has, and the great significance it would have, if this is free, that one could actually open up for far more people to take on higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e188	As the representative of Meltveit Kleppa says, it is true that we want to continue today's legislation and practices. This means that we have given priority to the opinion of the hearing bodies, students, where we simply wanted to legislate on a free principle that would prevent new forms of self-payment. According to the hearing bodies, at least I have not registered that someone has had strong opposition to the offer that public education institutions also had, whether it was now decentralised, online or linked to continuing training. We'll get one thing back where we can discuss this. But at least here and now I want to say that stopping it with a legal text today will prevent public educational institutions from offering and – perhaps – further democratisation of higher education, and leave it to a private market. I do not think the development in the offer we have received is negative. I am also opposed to the fact that we are going to extend public finance responsibility over the table, without at all knowing the extent of the costs it will incur.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e195	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e198	Odelstinget will today adopt a new common law for private and public universities and universities. The preparatory work of the law dates back to the introduction of the Quality Reform in Higher Education, followed by a review of current legislation in this area. Specifically, this ended up in the Ryssdal selection setting. Both the Ryssdal Committee and the Proposition underline the national and international trends that place our higher education institutions in a completely different reality and context than has been common and stable for decades. The competition for the good students, the good researchers, the good teachers and the competition for research funds is intensified. It occurs at a pace and scale that imposes completely different requirements on adaptability and adaptability, organisational and professional, than hardly anyone in traditional academic positions could have imagined earlier. This requires institutional framework, organisation and management, with the ability and willingness to meet new challenges, while respecting basic academic traditions and values. We believe that the present law provides institutions with the tools necessary to meet the challenges. For the private colleges, progress towards this law and the decisions taken at Odelstinget today, as they have looked forward to with great anticipation. Students are guaranteed equal rights and obligations, and we are given a comprehensive framework for all officially recognised higher education in Norway, and the same professional powers and requirements for businesses are legalised, whether they are public or private. For some, new framework conditions are a possibility, for others a threat. The law adopted today allows each institution to choose its organisational and professional profile, to cultivate its peacock skills and to act as a national and international lighthouse, with knowledge dissemination and research at a recognised high level. I think it is worth stressing that even though the law now equates with public and private higher education, there is also an opportunity to continue and further develop educational and value alternatives at private institutions. This and other main features of the law are far on the way to cross-political agreement. However, some themes have aroused debate both in student circles, in academic environments and among politicians. One theme is the so-called free principle, which is now being legislated for the first time. The majority of the Committee, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party stress that current practices and guidelines are to be continued. Institutions shall be able to continue to make own payments for continuing training, decentralised offers, distance learning arrangements and online offers. Payment studies shall not be at the expense of the ordinary educational activity but shall be additional to that financed by the State. Institutions also have an obligation to organise the private examination and to ensure that private individuals do not incur greater costs than this additional work entails. The majority of the Committee, on its own proposal, also asked the Government to return to the Storting with a briefing on this matter. The second theme that has generated some high levels of involvement is the governance of institutions. Here is an overall committee that allows for the continuation of today's governance, while institutions are also free to choose the government's proposed model. This freedom of choice now allows for the dynamic adaptation of institutions according to market and organisational needs and wishes. The third point that has aroused a certain debate is academic freedom. Here's a lot of interpretations and views. All higher education shall be research based. It does not necessarily mean that each university or university teacher is to conduct his own research, but the teaching must be based on the foremost research-based knowledge available and relevant to the subject. For the Right, it is still important that traditional universities have about the same proportion of their total research-related activities as for education. In relevant disciplines, it is natural that the new universities also seek to keep their research scope at such a level. Long-term research must be a priority, although rapid changes are taking place in student numbers, forms of funding and internationalisation. To meet this, institutions must have reasonable flexibility in allocating working time to individual employees and in using different job types. When in the setting reference is made to 50 pst. as a result of the time spent by scientific staff for research, this should not be interpreted as leading events at individual level. Here, the ability of management to control and prioritize remains, without, in my opinion, weakening academic freedom. We have also asked the department to evaluate this relationship more closely. Finally, I would like to stress again the joy of having a common law for private and public higher education institutions for the first time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e226	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e229	With such broad support in the setting, one has to be a little creative in order to find the input for the line round – but we have to do that. The background for part of the discussion about the government bill is the Ryssdal selection setting. When the Ryssdal Committee came with its majority and minority, I registered that the representative Voie was out and strongly supported the majority's view of separating the institutions. Fortunately, that proposal was put into the drawer. Then came the government proposal, and I saw that the representative Voie strongly defended it, of course. But that was not the result either. And then I'm going to ask the representative Voie: is the Right now prepared to base this on a few years ahead, so that you get a predictable law for the institutions, so that they can now concentrate on the content of research and education?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e236	First of all, I would like to stress that the Ryssdal Committee's position was the result of an independent public investigation and, consequently, was not a politically clear document, either from the Government or from any other political parties, so it is the professional input of the Ryssdal Committee. As far as the main question is concerned, whether we on the Right are prepared to make what is now a broad compromise, and which has the support of a broad majority in the United Kingdom, as the basis for our policy in the coming years, is the answer to that yes. We have reached a compromise solution in Stortinget which, with a very small exception, is entirely in line with what the Government has presented. The exception is that there is now freedom of choice for the institutions in terms of governance, and it is also fully in line with both the representative for which Voie has argued and the right has stood for earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e243	In fact, I think that the representative Voie could get stronger in, when you can read in the Right Program: ‘Universities and colleges must be guaranteed independence from political authorities by becoming independent legal entities, with the freedom to choose the composition of the board and the organisational model.’ Now the Right must be happy that through committee treatment they have actually got a solution that is much closer to the Right Program than the setting started with from the government that is also in the Right. So I would like to be confirmed by the representative of Voie that he is pleased to have his own program formulation related to, among other things. management mode. The right-hand side also says that they view private institutions as equivalent to public ones. But what's a little disappointing and a little bit strange is that you don't use the occasion, now that we're bringing together a common law for all institutions regardless of ownership, to put in place a principle of non-discrimination also in the economy of all institutions. I'm calling it from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e255	I again consider the basis for stressing that the proposal on which there is now broad political agreement and on which the Grand Duchy will adopt is entirely in line with what the Government has presented, with the small opening added by the majority, that there is now freedom of choice in relation to the choice of both the composition of the board and the form of government, to which the representative Sortevik referred. Of course, when it comes to financial equal treatment for private universities and public institutions, there is one objective that the Right stands by and that we want to work for in the future. But there we are, as long as we don't have 100 pst. majority – no, we do not have to have that, but as long as we do not have an absolute majority on the Storting – depending entirely on the good cooperation partners in order to achieve this in the annual budgetary negotiations, and then the representative Sortevik, as a good negotiator, hopefully, in the coming years, can also help us get this in place in an even better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e262	I do not feel quite sure that Søren Fredrik Voie has fully understood what is the attitude of the committee. In his main post, he spoke about the fact that today's arrangement can be continued in terms of management structure, and now he also says something of the same. There must be no doubt that what Odelstinget is adopting today is that we are continuing today's governance model, and then we are opening up to make changes. It's the model, and it's important that the Right, when they came in and supported this proposal, understand it anyway. It has to be a condition to go on. But my question to Søren Fredrik Voie is about the free principle. The right is with the Workers' Party to continue today's free-of-charge system. Then my question is to Søren Fredrik Voie: does he see it the same way that I perceive Vidar Bjørnstad in the answer to similar questions from me, that today's system means that we can get an extension of paid studies? When the established system of payment and the current system is to be continued, can we get an extension, so that there is now an opportunity to charge for more studies? Does he perceive it the same way, or does he not? It is important that he cancels or confirms it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e269	I record that the representative Rikvam is turning my argument 100 pst. and arrive at the same result. Now let's agree that the result is the same. An freedom of choice is now being introduced to enable the institutions themselves to choose between today's model and the government's proposed model. The free principle: Of course, when we say that today's system is going to continue, it also means that new offers can be developed further. It is precisely what gives diversity in the educational community, that there are still creative people out there who are looking for new solutions, who are looking at new forms of provision, who are finding new ways of distributing education, and who make higher education accessible to ever new groups in this country, whether at work, at home, through online education, through study groups or what it should be. So the answer to the question is yes, I hope our institutions are constantly doing well to develop new offers that make us reach with education to more and more.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e276	I just want to say first that even though Søren Fredrik Voie calls it what is today agreed when it comes to the freedom of choice of the control model, a detail, it is actually perceived as much more important to those who are responsible. But then to my question, and it applies to equality. For one who is not in the education committee as usual, it is very interesting to read the broad plural comment that describes today's status, i.e. the great differences that exist when women make up only 16 pst. by all professors, and when men are in multiples also in other scientific settings. And as the committee points out, there's a loss of valuable competence and experience that happens when the recruitment is so biased. What in all the world is it that makes Right can't be a member of a law firm? Have they intended to follow such a principle also in other areas? Because the institutions have a plan today, shouldn't you legislate?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e284	There's an extensive gender equality work going on in all of our higher education institutions. Specific action plans are drawn up for gender equality for all categories of staff, from technical staff to scientific staff at the highest level. At the same time it is important, I think, also for the Centre Party, to recognise that in research and development, there are some international criteria to follow. It is important that we recruit those who have scientific competence and research competence for the best top positions at all times. When there are women who meet these requirements, there is no doubt that they are given priority in our higher education institutions. Fortunately, we see that there is a good and positive development going on in this area. In fact, in part of our higher education institutions and studies, women are in the majority today. This applies to part of the most attractive studies, for example: and a number of other very attractive disciplines. So in a few years' time, we'll probably see the opposite trend in recruiting top positions within the academy than is the case, without getting the Forced Legal Formulas of the Center Party at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e289	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e292	Let me start by including the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. It is gratifying that we now have a common law for all higher education institutions. We conclude with this law a process that the Progress Party believes is important and correct. Norway has a common law for all educational institutions, both public and private. In a number of important areas, there will be equal rules. It is important for the quality of education, and thus also for the students. However, the Progress Party is not satisfied with the fact that non-discrimination is not established in terms of funding. The Party considers that officially recognised higher education should be publicly funded. Within such a framework, public and private institutions should, in our view, be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. The party of progress has been surprised to note that the government parties do not use this possibility to establish this important principle, but, on the contrary, share a consensus with the Workers' Party and SV in an opinion which states: ‘The majority will underline’... ‘there is no automatic link between the accreditation of the institution or the provision of study and the award of state grants’. The principle here rejected by the government parties is the same as the government parties by means of the Progress Party have been put in place in the law on free school, i.e. in basic education. The principle that government parties seem to be good at basic education is therefore rejected by the same parties in terms of higher education. That can't be the money it's on. And education — higher education of good international quality — is precisely what will ensure the nation of Norway when oil and gas once end. The right in its programme says that ‘Rights regard private institutions as equivalent to public institutions’. But it does not go far enough to finance it. So what about the equivalency? Higher education should, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be publicly funded, a Community solution, but there should be freedom of choice so that students can choose higher education at publicly recognised private higher education institutions with Community funding. Christian People's Party says in its program: ‘It is therefore important that private universities have a framework which makes them viable and able to compete on the education market.’ A notification that there is no automatic link between accreditation and the award of study offerings does not provide any significant improvement in the framework conditions for private colleges. To quote the head of the newspaper on Saturday 19 February earlier this year: ‘For the poor for the free højskular.’ The Party considers that the same principle should apply in higher education as in basic education and therefore proposes it in proposal No. 18, with alternative legal text relating to § 8-3, state grants to private universities and colleges. The significant bias currently found in public funding, between publicly owned institutions and private institutions, needs to be reduced over time in the view of the Progress Party. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the Government of the State Budget for 2006 submit a plan to step up State aid to publicly recognised private higher education institutions. NOU 2003:25, i.e. the report of the so-called Ryssdal Committee, together with the government’s Ot.prp. No 79 for 2003-2004 generated strong involvement in the public sector in particular. The majority — in fact, in some places throughout the Committee — have options for other important issues than those proposed by the Government. Let me make it clear on behalf of the Progress Party that for our part it is not because the professors have gone to the barricades, but we have openly accepted all the good arguments both for and against the Government's proposal. First of all, the Progress Party has been based on its own, clear programme formulation on educational institutions as public autonomous entities. It is also a formulation and programme vision that preserves academic freedom, and this issue is, in fact, also about academic freedom in a broad sense, not only about the amount of time to be devoted to research for scientific staff, although it is important enough. Academic freedom should, and must be, safeguarded if we want research-based higher education of high international quality. Self-government and academic freedom will be poor if all institutions in the sector are forced on one common management model, and only one. Of course, institutions should be governed, but we believe that this should be done through target management and related reporting, through documented work on quality development and through supervision. Therefore, the Progress Party has chosen a solution based on today's management model. There I agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam: we stress that today's management model is the starting point. This is called some shared management, but regardless of description, it has proved to be a good management model. There is no detail in the matter. It's actually a very important and very central point. The Progress Party has opened up other main models, but demands that such an important decision as the change in the management model be broadly anchored in the institution. This is why the two-thirds majority of the Progress Party’s demands for a change of model came both forward and possibly back to previous models. The Progress Party is pleased that that view was quickly widely supported in the Committee. The fact that freedom of choice with regard to the management model based on today’s solution is also recommended by the sector itself does not in any way weaken the conclusion reached by the entire Committee – in close proximity to one representative. In line with its view of self-government, the party of progress will elect its chairman if the principal is appointed. We recorded that we did not get any information about this. We stay standing quite alone. So much for the ‘enhanced freedom of choice’ that the Committee places on the choice of management model. The proposal for a new form of association for state institutions was one of the proposals of the Ryssdal Committee that really created a storm. Last April, we remember that the Education Councils on behalf of the Government left the form of association in stable side rentals. The party stressing that it should not become a permanent side rental. There might be good reasons to wait a little bit. There is a lot of demanding work going on with the Quality Reform. Therefore, the Progress Party has also accepted to wait with changes here. But the Progress Party assumes that the Government will later address the question of changing the form of connection with the state, pointing out that, in our view, a solution with special-law companies will be a good solution to the desire for an independent form of governance. Let me also briefly point out that the Progress Party proposes to present its own case on property management in the university and higher education sectors. Property relationships are one of the three key pillars of the Quality Reform and are still lacking in good clarification and funding. The matter we are dealing with today affects many important principles. One of these is the free principle, which is also part of academic freedom. The Party considers that the free principle should apply and that the principle should be clearly established. The Progress Party shall promote its own proposal as a general rule for the whole sector and on the basis of the principle of public financing of publicly accepted offers. In the view of the Progress Party, this does not mean that institutions cannot, under detailed regulations, incur other expenditure on education, such as: copied material. The view of the party on the free principle is linked to the position of public funding for officially recognised higher education, and it is linked to the principle of equal treatment of publicly recognised educational institutions. I repeat: this too has to do with academic freedom in the broadest sense, the freedom of the students to choose one educational institution of several possibilities without the content of the wallet deciding whether to make a choice at all. One of several good ways to use oil wealth is to build infrastructure. Good basic education for many and good higher education for many is a good infrastructure for the nation. Therefore, full public funding of all officially recognised higher education programmes should be available to Norway. This view has been left standing alone in so far. Following this proposal, the second best solution for the Progress Party will be No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, which at least clearly establishes a free principle for state universities and colleges. We will therefore subsidize proposal No. 4, since our own proposal No. 17 seems to fall. Today's suspension continues the provisions on employment at goals, § 6-4, and temporary employment, § 6-5. It is supported by the Progress Party. At the same time, the Progress Party has referred to its comments from the last time the Law on State Universities and Universities was dealt with, and issues of temporary employment were in focus. The Progress Party has been and is still sceptical about long-term temporary employment in the sector, with a duration considerably longer than can be found, and what you might want, in the private sector. Once the Governing Board's position has been reached for the longest time, and the Government has just made its proposals on the basis of this attitude, it is natural that the Committee and the Storting should re-examine these questions after the general discussion has taken place in the Storting. I find reason to point out that what is contained in the Government's proposal on the Working Environment Act is about opening up temporary employment for six plus six months, which is equal to twelve months, and twelve months is something quite different than temporary employment for twelve years. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that our proposal to get such a new case has received subsidiary support from SV and the Workers' Party. I refer to paragraph B of the motion for a resolution. Finally, I would like to point out that the Progress Party wants to strengthen the role of NOKUT. We want to take care of the role of the retailer and do something about the financing model, so that the costs for the retailer are included in the general funding model. We want to strengthen students' rights in terms of access to justice, and also record with satisfaction that the suspension has become better than the proposal at this point. The Progress Party would like to see its own case on the use of higher education fitness assessment, explicitly so that more education than teacher training is withdrawn. The Progress Party wants to continue the system of the current law on private higher education, namely the opportunity not to be associated with a student relationship. The Progress Party believes that the institution's board is itself competent to be responsible for student welfare. The Progress Party also points out that once the Labour Inspectorate has been supervised in relation to the learning environment of students, it has to be clarified that the coercive means of supervision apply to all institutions and not only to the private institutions. The law collects higher education in Norway into almost one educational area. Happy it is that we have come this far. At the same time, it is a little sloppy that non-economic non-discrimination has been established, at least in the political comments of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e366	The Progress Party wants to remove § 6-2, i.e. the gender equality paragraph, in the University and Higher Education Act. § 6-2 says that universities and colleges will work actively, targeted and planned for gender equality in the academy. I would like to ask the Progress Party: Does the representative of Sortevik believe that the removal of the gender equality paragraph will help improve or exacerbate the gender equality situation in the academy? See, for example: The Progress Party another way to increase equality in senior positions in the academy? In short, is the Progress Party satisfied with the situation as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e373	We want good employees with good professional qualifications, without schooling to the sex. But I'm going to be attending in one area and say that one of the reasons we want relationships related to long-term use of temporaryity back for reassessment is that we want to look at some of the considerations that have been put forward in connection with perhaps getting into this. There's one of the considerations that it doesn't seem to be recruiting for female labour. There is something we will consider when we are going to consider whether it is necessary to have special provisions in the Law of Higher Education relating to temporary employment or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e380	In the meantime, I think it may be a little difficult to know where the Progress Party is actually going. In many respects, they are together with the government parties on good and sensible solutions. At other times, the Progress Party stands with the socialist block on things that I personally don't think are so very reasonable. I just want to point out a little thing in this context. The propulsion party says in the setting that they ‘are of the opinion that the companies and controllers have proved robust and with a high degree of change competence’. This might be interpreted as not needing any change in the composition and management of higher education institutions and universities. Is it, then, that the Progress Party is satisfied with the results achieved, with the technical results and with the research results, with what is achieved by innovation, innovation and entrepreneurship as a result of what is created at university level, or is there no link between governance and results?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e389	First of all, this political movement. You might well follow where the Right Party and the Government Party are walking, because they are walking knowingly from one to the other, when it comes to seeking alliances. I will not refer to the matter of faith training. So the question of the management model. There's a point for us to give institutions freedom of choice instead of doing what the Right Government chose to do, that is, to drag down one specific model across the whole sector and say that this model, my friends, is going to use you no matter how big you are. Whatever you do, you have to use one model. We do not have any faith in that in the Progress Party. Nor is it in line with our policy. What has puzzled us is that it could be in line with Right-wing policy. That is why I used my reply to the representative Voie to remind him of the Right Programme formulation of the exact choice of the management model, and I can rejoice with the Right that the Right has come closer to its own programme formulation with the work the Committee has done in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e398	Our universities and colleges are the heaviest environments of competence we have around the country, regional, etc. We have said several times that universities should be regional development actors and have a responsibility in relation to industrial development in the region they are located. The Progress Party has said on several occasions that this role should not be played by higher education institutions. Higher education institutions shall not be regional development actors. They repeat it again, that this role should not be held by colleges. They shall not be regional development actors ‘related to value creation and industrial development’ as they write in the setting. I've been wondering a little bit about why the Progress Party has such a need to stress that the universities, the heaviest environments of competence we have around in Norway, should not have a responsibility in relation to the business that is there and in relation to education, research, etc. What is the reason why a person wants to change the role of higher education as a development actor?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e405	Who changes the role of higher education can be discussed. We have come to realize that they have a role as educators, that is, an educational assignment. We want to focus on it, and we want to cultivate it. But it's quite right, as the SV representative points out, that we don't see it as a task for the colleges to be district builders. We see it as having a role as an educational institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e410	In his statement, Mr Sortevik said that the Progress Party would treat State and private institutions in the same way as regards State subsidies, and he made a proposal in line with that. Today's private school law does not entitle State subsidies. It is budgetary decisions that are crucial to that. There are many good arguments for granting state subsidies to private institutions, and in the Christian People's Party we consider them in budgetary terms. But today, private institutions can also demand specialities, school money, from their students. Several institutions argue that excesses also give better motivated students, so they want to continue this scheme. As far as I can see, the Progress Party will treat both state and private institutions in a non-discriminatory manner with regard to state subsidies and will require adjuncts from students at private institutions. Why is the Progress Party going to overfinance private colleges, and why a free principle for state, but not for private, to receive State subsidies as large as government ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e420	As far as basic education is concerned, it is quite right, as the representative of the Christian People's Party says, that it is still the case that the independent schools only get 85 pst. of what the public owned schools get. There's a bias that we want to get rid of. We actually believed that the Christian People's Party agreed and shared our efforts to get rid of that discrimination. We want the same principle for higher education. We want the same principle implemented for education that is officially recognised. The public shall have a financial responsibility that allows the student freedom of choice, without excessive prob lems, as we find in part in the private sector in higher education today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e427	An important effort to ensure more higher education is better organisation for the disabled in the different institutions. The step-by-step feature is often used to profile itself as a party that wants more organisation and better conditions for people with disabilities. In our view, the setting contains an eye-catching note that it is important to make provision for the individual. However, the Progress Party cannot support a comment from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre that underlines the importance of following up the Disability Action Plan in the context of guidelines, in cooperation with the disabled's organisations. Why this backward hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e432	Institutions' governments have a general responsibility under applicable laws and regulations. In addition, there is, happily enough, an oversight related to the student learning environment, where, fortunately, the Labour Inspectorate has now come in, as the Progress Party has arranged for a long time. So it finally came to the conclusion that the Labour Inspectorate has been given the task of caring for the learning environment of the students. In this area, too, we have faith in the governments of the institutions, that they are trying to make things right so that all students can have good and sufficient access to the individual institution, without having to have a wide range of comments about some circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e439	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e442	Let me first fix a small error in the setting. Paragraphs 9 to 3 of the fifth paragraph provide a reference to the ‘third paragraph’ of the same paragraph. So the reference should be to the second or third paragraphs. It is a little important to clarify that the reference is not only to the third term but to the ‘other or third paragraph’. There is reason to thank the rapporteur for the work that has been done. This became a relatively demanding matter, because the Committee had to write about important parts of the legislative proposal. Snowing law is an extensive work, and it takes time to ensure the quality of all parts of the text – therefore this praise to the case rapporteur for a well-worked work. The law we are adopting today is a law of authority. Now I have not checked all the Norwegian laws, but I doubt that there are many laws with so many mandates to the department and government to provide regulations. The size should perhaps have gone into a number of areas that we don't now go into by leaving to the Government and the Department to give regulations in this area. I'm not sure if we're good at it. If we had been given a law where we had gone into some of the areas in which we are now empowered to give regulations, I think we would have got an even more important and exciting job than we have now. Despite the fact that we have now made a common law, I do not feel that we have come so terribly much longer. We have not entered and discussed the role of private schools, cf. some questions from the Workers' Party. We haven't discussed the location of private institutions. We have not discussed the financing model. What's happened here is that we've had an adjustment. With regard to the financing of private institutions, we have been adapted to the public sector. But basically, this is a mathematical adjustment. What we use in private institutions has been taken into account, and a similar model has been used in public institutions. So we haven't gotten so much longer in the relationship between private and public educational institutions. I would probably wish that we had dared to go into what we suggested earlier in the case of private institutions, namely, contract financing, thinking that there are some private offers that are of such importance and importance that we are willing to fund it properly. Then we have other things that obviously are not important for the community to finance. That's what you're going to have to finance yourself. We haven't, we haven't gone into it in such a way to think about it. We couldn't, because it just wasn't interested in trying to think in those paths. Free higher education is the cornerstone of the welfare society. Free education combined with cheap student loans opened universities for classes previously excluded from higher education. After the war, higher education was democratized, and free education and cheap loans were a prerequisite. The majority continues today's model. That means there's a system of self-payment. We've started on a trend towards self-payment. And that gives cause for concern. So you can say that these are specific studies and specific educational services, online education services, decentralised education services, etc., while one maintains that the free principle applies on campus. Nevertheless, this is a development that should give cause for concern to more than the Centre Party and SV, but it obviously has not. Because as I said here before, this means that we've opened up to it, it's an opening. And that means that this is probably going to get a larger amount in the future. There will probably be several online education services where self-payment is required, and we're talking about quite a lot of self-payment. We're talking about a self-payment at a 60-point price of about 30,000–40,000 kroner. It's quite a lot, although it's a decentralised education offer. If we had followed SV's instructions, we would have broken the free principle – we would have said that everything in the knowledge public opinion is free of charge, and then we would have said that tailor-made arrangements could require a self-payment for. And then we have a lot of people lying in the grey zone. Then we would have said that we're going to have a new round in Stortinget, before we give regulations and regulations. We didn't get the chance to do that, and I'm sorry. This is not detail control. This is simply to go into the grey zones and then draw up a clearer distinction between what is to be paid for and what is to be free of charge. I sincerely hope that we do not now develop a higher education offer and go back to a system that our parental regeneration met, where education was not for everyone, but for the few. The Committee stresses academic freedom, and we underline that in a good way. There's reason to give our universities and colleges credit for the work done so far. They have demonstrated a high degree of flexibility in the conversion to a new degree structure, where new training programmes have been implemented. But there's reason to be on guard. Developments towards more competition and the more market with a more production-dependent financing system are those which, in the worst case, could threaten academic freedom and which could weaken academic freedom and greatly influence institutions. That is why it was so important for the majority of the committee to stress academic freedom. Universities and colleges are our most important research institutions. Therefore, it was also important for the Committee in the form of a comment to stress that this research responsibility should not be weakened. The majority of the Committee notes the tradition that the scientific staff have about one. 50 pst. of the time spent on research and the rest on education and other tasks. We stress that this should continue, while saying that even at higher education — although they have not established the same practice and system — it is important that the scientific staff, the teaching staff, should devote time to research. It is important that good arrangements are established there as well. I am pleased that the government parties have switched over to the Labour Party, SVs, the Progress Party and the Center Party's management model, and that it became practically unanimous about it. I am pleased that we have established what is the principle, that today's system of elected management, a long tradition within the academy, is going to continue as a main model. This is a tradition that we're going to take care of. It's important things to take care of, and I also see that this stands as a kind of bulwark against the 'New Public Management' idea, which otherwise characterizes us to a great extent. So the main model is solid, today's system is going to continue, but a qualified majority can choose another way of organizing management, namely by hiring a principal. Language is important, finding words and expressions for what one wants to say. What has happened again in those who want to change this model has been that they want uniform management. We who have represented something else, obviously don't have a uniform, but a shared management, when someone uses the language this way. I would venture to claim that the main model that is now being adopted, which is a continuation of today's system, is a model of unified management, with a elected principal, who is the chairman, and an administrative director alongside who has purely administrative responsibility. I can't see that the alternative proposal of the Government, to hire a principal and then to have a chairman, will create somewhat more consistent leadership than is in the main model that the majority now adopts. I'm sorry that it wasn't possible to get a majority for what we say about equality. It is a problem within the academy that so few women have leading scientific positions. Women are strongly underrepresented at the professor level and at the leadership level. We have to do some grip if we're going to cancel this out. There is no help in saying that now there are more women taking university-level education, and this is likely to cancel out in a certain period of time. I think it is absolutely necessary that we take action, and what we have put in the form of an observation that more women should enter postdoc positions and scholarship positions and have rights to that type of job, will be a proper way of recruiting. I also regret that it was not possible to have a majority in favour of a change in the law in relation to people with disabilities. A stronger clarification of the rights of people with disabilities is actually a little bit important. We know they're underrepresented in higher education, and they don't have the same possibility. For this reason, it was important for us to stress that a person should facilitate both the physical environment and the environment so that people with disabilities have proper access to higher education. I'm sorry that we're standing alone on this bill. There shall never be calmness in an education system. There shall be challenges, tensions and developments. But I want to say that we don't need any more attention now about organization, forms of association and management. The only challenge we have now is to look at a clearer and clearer division of labour between universities, universities and the institute sector in research. I expect that it will give us the opportunity to discuss when we get the research report. At least there will be one of the things we need to discuss in order to find a better division of labour between universities, universities and the institute sector. So we don't have to calm down. It should always be development. There shall be tensions in the development of new training provision, etc. But we now need peace of mind about management structure and form of association. So I'm assuming we don't get any further play on that kind of thing. Then we have said something about transitional arrangements – that the board of directors of institutions under experimental arrangements can, once the law has been passed, take them up and carry them forward, and possibly adjust them if necessary. We need to say that. I will end with this and address our proposals as they are in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e488	The representative Rolf Rikvam has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e493	On page 19 of the setting, there is a comment from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, where they agree with the Equality Ombudsman, who says on his website that calls can help create major differences in the academy. The Equality Ombudsman asks the University of Oslo to stop the practice of not publishing certain posts, so-called calls. This practice says SV can be involved in inhibiting gender equality in the academy. Nevertheless, SV will not agree to go against calls. I think that's very special. In the past, I have had a clear impression that both SV's leader Kristin Halvorsen and SV have supported the Gender Equality Ombudsman's recommendations on gender equality in the academy, but in this setting we see that SV still believes that it should be possible to go to employment without prior publication. So I ask you, is this a new political course? Has SV changed its direction when you now respond to the recommendations of the Equality Ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e500	Now I don't use the word 'call'. It's probably something you prefer to use in some other contexts, and not related to higher education. What we've said is that the institutions must have the opportunity to add to, for example, two-year positions, i.e. small posts, without giving them the freedom to work. The point is obvious, I would think, for most people – except the Workers' Party – that a university, a educational institution that needs to attract a competence, which needs one particular competence in order to have a training offer, for example at Nesna or where it may be, must have the opportunity to attract the people or persons with this competence, so that they have the opportunity to have this offer. There are small posts, side positions, we're talking about here, and we don't have to put a stop to the institutions being able to recruit like that. In itself it doesn't have to be anything wrong, whether it's a woman or a man, they have the opportunity to recruit both women and men. Unfortunately, most of the men in those positions are recruited, so most of the men are most likely recruited. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]] But it is primarily a professional matter we are talking about. Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e507	In fact, from my point of view, I find it a bit pleasant to note that even in this field of higher education, there is a considerable gap between the so-called partners of the socialist government option. This concerns the view of the freedoms of private universities, the view of professional recognition, the view of the free principle, where the representative Rolf Rekovam is too concerned about the current practice that he sees opportunities to continue it. But my question to Reikvam goes on with professional approval. To date, there has been a broad political consensus – almost across the board and in agreement in Stortinget – that professional recognition of new training offers is available to professional authorities. Nevertheless, the Socialist Left Party wants to open the way for higher-level studies in the arts colleges without a professional recognition from the NOCUT. Does this mean that SV is now in the process of introducing a new principle that professional recognition will no longer be a professional responsibility but will start to be entrusted to the political authorities again?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e514	This is the question of the establishment and closure of study provision. Even at the bachelor's level, institutions decide whether to set up or close a training offer, the institution of which is accredited. We have set the limit at the bachelor's level and said that in the case of master's programmes, the higher education institutions must have the approval for it – they do not even have the possibility to set up and abolish educational provision at that level. So you could say that it's right to draw the boundary between Bachelor and Master, and that's what we've been on. But then we say that the arts colleges are so special -- the small environments we're talking about, and the competence sits around these institutions -- that in order to maintain and launch master's programmes in these areas, they themselves should be allowed to decide to set up master's degrees at the art colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e522	The representative Reikvam has repeatedly stressed that the starting point is the current model, but that there is full opportunity to choose another one. In relation to the SV's programme, where they say that they want to "work to ensure that colleges and universities do not change organisational status", the party may well be a little skeptical. Or is it that we are facing a new area where SV actually creates its own party program? In comparison with the private actors, i.e. the private universities, it must be possible to obtain some sort of clarification from the representative of the SV, too. Again, I refer to the SV's programme, where it says, "Everyone should have the opportunity to study at colleges and colleges." Is that only applicable to publicly owned educational institutions? And is it that those who are so sinful that they choose private providers have to do the best they can, even in terms of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e529	In terms of the structure and management model, we're going to go on with what's today's main model, i.e. that the head, principal, is elected from among the staff of the institution, students, etc. And then we've been able to open up so you can have a different model, by 2/3 majority. It was a compromise that we made. But as the main model is carried forward, I feel that it is good according to what we have in our program, and what it is important for us to stress. Then to the private institutions. It's quite amazing that we spend so much time on the private institutions here, when most institutions are public institutions. That's really who we should be concerned about. It's those that make up the mass of educational institutions. We have to make sure that they get the best possible. Still, one is on – up and up again – talking about the private ones. After all, we launched an idea earlier about contract financing. We haven't done that. But we're committed to securing the economy of the public institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e540	SV is similar to the Centre Party's survey of the universal design of the various educational institutions. I understand that there is a number here that refers back to the Disability Action Plan, and then the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre provide a more detailed guide on how one can go further in following up the proposal of the law here. SV goes much further than everyone else here, because one will delete the expression 'as far as possible'. My question will then be: what realism is it at this point in deleting these words, when one knows that it says so terrible a lot before one can really realize the promise here?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e547	For us, this is actually important – and then of course we can discuss realism. However, I choose to believe that the vast majority of institutions are working seriously and properly to facilitate the physical environment for the disabled, as well as to facilitate exams and all the other things they are going to do. We also think it is reasonable that what we want to do – our ideal – is also materialised through the legal text itself. That's why what we're proposing, unlike the rest, is to remove 'as far as possible', but say it should facilitate disabled people. There shall be full access for disabled persons to the different premises and to the different institutions. I think we should have it as a goal. If we have this as a goal, we should also be able to trap it into the legal text itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e560	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e565	Christian People's Party supports today's suspension of new university and higher education laws. Let me begin by recognising the work done in the Committee. The main feature of today's lawmaking is that the law on private higher education is merged with the law on university and higher education in a common law on universities and higher education. This is both desirable and joyful. It is with great satisfaction that I note that the principle of a common law has not aroused any debate. Even in the SV or in the Workers' Party, there are major objections, parties that continue to raise critical voices about private colleges in the budget debates. Although the representative Rolf Reikvam in today's debate believes that we are spending too much time on the private sector, the main point of today's legislation is actually here. The decision we are making today means nothing less than a codification of the private higher education institutions as a professional and fully-fledged part of the Norwegian education system. Private colleges complying with the requirements of the law then also offer high-quality education and are subject to the same professional quality requirements as state institutions. Today's decision is therefore quite natural, and it is positive that this is done with the full political support of all parties. This means that ownership is no longer a controversial political theme, but that it focuses on quality, both in education and in research. Thereafter, all higher education in Norway accredited by NOKUT will constitute a single vocational education system, managed with the greatest possible equivalence within a common framework for the university and higher education sectors. Everything is now at the ready to have a nationally coordinated policy for both state and private institutions, where regulatory changes take place at the same time for all. The Christian People's Party believes that the private universities represent something more than a supplement to the state schools. They provide a good alternative and are a positive stimulus for the further development of our higher education. We are pleased that they now receive a greater level of non-discrimination in terms of professional qualifications and business requirements. This will enable them to assert themselves in the education market, both nationally and internationally. A common and comprehensive framework also guarantees students equal rights and obligations, which has been important for the Christian People's Party. Several of the private institutions are based on an ideological basis that gives them a distinctive character. In this way, several of the institutions live in a field of tension between the traditional academy and an ideological anchoring. Under this law, the purpose is equal to that of State institutions and private institutions. However, a common overall objective of the institutions does not restrict the possibility of representing an alternative on a professional or religious or ethical basis. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the institutions will have the right to design their own professional and value-based basis within the framework of the law. In this context, it is right that private higher education institutions should be able to comply with the provisions of the Employment Environment Act, as laid down in Section 54(D) of the Working Environment Act, which may be important in order to maintain the distinctive character of higher education. A common law for state and private institutions in higher education is the completion of a process to improve quality and provide greater equivalence. It started with the proposal of the Mjøs Committee for a quality reform in higher education, including, among other things, a new degree system and a closer follow-up of the individual student. Today's law is a follow-up to the Ryssdal Selection. The government's proposal for a new law wisely did not follow up the proposal to make state institutions self-owned foundations, which the Christian People's Party is satisfied with. The Christian People's Party believes it is an important principle that the state also stands as the owner of central educational institutions. The knowledge and culture that these convey, is our shared ownership. At the same time, we believe that today's legislative proposals provide an opportunity to continue the best within the university's tradition and strengthen both strategic and research governance at the institutions. In the setting, we also take into account the big differences between our state institutions. We establish a main model of leadership – as the Christian People's Party supported last time this was dealt with in Stortinget – but at the same time we give the institutions the freedom to decide for themselves another form of leadership if it is desirable to strengthen leadership. The government's proposals have been passed on as a possible management model and the freedom of the institutions has been confirmed. Our famous art painter Odd Nerdrum once said about his painter's psyche that «every time I change something, I feel mortal anxiety». This quote came to mind when I followed part of the public debate on leadership at our universities. We have experienced a strong and justified defence for academic freedom. The Christian People's Party will be there to defend this. At the same time, the large community demonstrates confidence in the sector by giving great freedom and by means of a significant transfer of funds — yes, freedom is so great that the Riksrevision is concerned in some contexts. This means that we have to expect institutions to manage this trust in a good way. We expect good international quality in research and in education. We expect institutions to contribute to innovation and innovation in our business life, while providing insight and knowledge about the challenges we face as a cultural and welfare society. We expect insight into both local and global developments and challenges. With the freedom of institutions and research communities, it also follows a social responsibility to contribute to the community. Let me underline two ratios in the end. The Christian People's Party wishes to remain vigilant for the free principle of state universities and colleges. The Committee was last week in Germany, where we heard about the plans to introduce tuition fees at universities. The Christian People's Party wants to avoid this in Norway and is willing to contribute to the government funding of good quality education. Today, we have a practice that opens up specialities in the field of adapted continuing education. The Christian People's Party considers it reasonable that both the employee and the employer contribute to the financing of such activities. This opens up grey zones from which it is difficult to regulate away. As a result, the practice of institutions is important. We need more knowledge about what's going on today, but I don't think we're going to be able to trust the institutions in how they're going to carry out their societal mission as a provider of continuing education. It may be the individual board of the institutions that will have to make the specific assessment. Finally, let me also underline the importance of the institutions joining up research and education. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that education is research-based. In the setting, we have stated that research must continue to be a priority in line with teaching, as tradition has been at our universities. At this point, I would like to endorse the contribution made by the representative Voie.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e596	It is a fact that in recent years the Christian People's Party has also been in good right-wing society in terms of education – they have been involved in privatising basic education and higher education. So the question is higher education. I may well ‘read the Fan on the Wall’ to some extent, but I would like to ask the representative Lyngstad to explain to me what he thinks when he writes with the Left and Right in his statement that ‘it is an important principle that the public is also the owner of central educational institutions’ – which is essentially current practice today. Finally, the question: Is there any restful ideas at the Christian People's Party about continuing to have some transitions to private legal entities?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e603	When it comes to «reading the Fan on the Wall», it is the reader who sees him. So that's something we're going to take care of. As far as the last question is concerned, I would say that the Christian People's Party has no plans to transform state universities and colleges into private legal entities. I do not see this amendment as an attempt to privatize higher education. I see it as a reform to improve quality, both in terms of education and in relation to research, across the whole sector. The amendment of the law also gives us the opportunity to see private and public offers in the context. I think that is important if we are to achieve a good system in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e612	I have also noted the opinion of the government parties to which the representative Bjørnstad referred, and have interpreted it as an indication that there should be a balance in this sector between public-owned and private-owned institutions. In this regard, the main point in my reply goes to the representative of the Christian People's Party on the little surprise that, like the Right, in this solemn moment, where we gather all the institutions of higher education in a common law, they are not more concerned with clarifying and stressing a common principle of equal treatment in terms of funding. Several of the private universities also offer an offer that is not covered by other educational institutions, says the Christian People's Party in their programme, and it is therefore important that private universities have framework conditions that make them viable. But we're not saying anything to these important institutions other than that they're getting through from one budget to the other. Why don't we get a better explanation of principle from the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e619	I would argue that today's law decision is an improvement in the situation that allows the public to see both private and state offerings in higher education in the context. Today's law decisions are strongly desired – I understand – also from the private colleges. That's right, and it gives us a better tool in dealing with higher education. With regard to the viability of the economy from year to year, it is true that the law does not represent anything new. But I would argue that with the traditions of the Christian People's Party in private colleges, we have helped to facilitate the provision of education that society needs, and there is good quality of the offer given.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e627	When I heard the article from Arne Lyngstad, I got the impression that we were facing a paradigm shift in the possibilities of private institutions. I have so far seen most private colleges as professionally good institutions – I say most, I don't say all – and I therefore don't see this paradigm shift that is now coming. This with equal treatment also took Lyngstad a lot of time. SV has a note together with the Workers' Party and the Centre on the Publicity Act and the Administrative Act against private institutions. These are institutions that are largely funded by the public. It varies a little bit, some are almost 100 pst. funded, and then some are far down, but at least they are largely publicly funded. We believe that the rules of the Public and Administrative Act should apply to those institutions that are so heavily funded by the public. Why won't the Christian People's Party join in underlining just that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e634	It was the representative of Rikvam who used the term paradigm shift. I don't need to use that term. I believe that today's legislation actually provides a better tool for seeing the entire higher education in the context. I'm glad the Socialist Left Party is in on it. I think it's great that they also see that perspective in the bill. When it comes to the issue of the disclosure law, I think it must be due to a misunderstanding, simply because in their comments SV has not made visible where they want more publicity than what is already in the law. There is a great deal of publicity and regulations about this in the law already. The Administrative Act also applies in relation to individual decisions. I would therefore claim that many of the important interests SV are looking for are protected by the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e641	I have two questions for the Christian People's Party. It only applies to people with disabilities and to the situation of accessibility. What makes it impossible for the Christian People's Party to comment that the ministry here should follow up with guidelines in relation to the action plan in cooperation with the disabled people's own organisations? This would really have meant that the paragraph that mentions accessibility would have had a much better follow-up. The second question relates to equality and the law-making of a plan of its own. Is Arne Lyngstad in agreement with Søren Voie that legalizing own plans would be forcing institutions to do something, or does Lyngstad see that it could actually stimulate further efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e648	I'm not so sure that lawmaking is always what can advance the goals you have. In relation to gender equality, I also feel that the institutions have equality plans and want to work with them and are also conscious of recruitment. That they are not as impatient as politicians seem to be is a challenge to the political system. But I'm not so sure that lawmaking makes the institutions even more eager about this. As far as the second point is concerned, we could have talked about equality and lawmaking. There may also be other areas where there could have been a legalisation, but where one might consider it more useful to work through action plans, for example. in the case of people with disabilities – here we could also have a statutory framework. But we've chosen a different approach. I think the most important thing is that we have a political pressure – and I assume that the Council of State has – to achieve the goals that apply to the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e655	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e658	I should first of all also from the Center Party's side have a thank you to the case-speakers Bjørnstad for the particularly good management of the work in this matter. A new common law for public and private universities and colleges ensures non-discrimination with regard to professional qualifications and institutional requirements. It also assures the rights and obligations of the students. The central party assumes that education in Norway is a public responsibility and that most of the activity before higher education will take place before the public educational institutions. At the same time, we want to stress the right of private institutions to design their own professional and value base, and that many of these institutions represent a valuable addition to public services. The central party, like many of the hearing agencies, is not happy with all the government proposals. We disagree in areas such as debt. academic freedom, conditions of addition and composition of the board and free of charge. A co-consultant's committee states that it is important to legislate institutions for their academic freedom. Several hearing bodies are calling for the legalization of the academic freedom of the individual to be added scientifically. We support such a principle and are very pleased that the department now has to make the necessary arrangements. The government will continue to decide whether to add temporarily for up to 12 years, and that this will now include private institutions. The centre party disagrees with such a proposal. We thought it illogical that this at all was proposed at this point in time. In turn, we support the proposal for the renewal of university and university schools following the deliberations of the labour-environment law and service workers' law. So the government proposes a new mandatory main model for the rental structure of state universities and colleges with principals appointed by the ministry. A co-ordinated committee has previously entered a main model with the selected principal and a handlebar where no grouping had multiple ownership. At the same time, a rectangle was opened to allow you to add a rectangle and to have an external control number. We believe that a grouping where no grouping has multiple ownership will contribute to solutions through holistic assessments. There are differences between institutions, both in size, experience, traditions and tasks. The choice of governance structure must last for this lack. Thus, the central party will give the state universities and universities an enhanced freedom of choice in relation to the governance structure, based on today's main model, with the Vice-Chancellor selected. The centre party does not support the continuation of today's unlucky practices when applying the free principle. Let me remind you that practice is very different from learning to learning. The costs vary, depending on where the students study. The government uses the general outline. We are afraid that it will open up further different practices. The cut in decentralised education provided by the government party together with the Progress Party in the budget agreement shows that there is cause for concern. The centre party believes that any higher education which is or may be included in a degree and which is offered in the knowledge-based public opinion shall be free of charge. The way in which the education is distributed should not be a question of whether the institutions can charge the students. Competence reform in itself attracts attention in this field. If a student chooses to be an ordinary student, choose online education, choose a decentralised offer or choose to be a private individual, no fee shall be charged as long as the course is offered in the knowledge-based public opinion. And we're glad that the plural will have a review of the practice in this field. Then it's that the Center Party also has the goal that all institutions should be accessible to the disabled. It is therefore important that there are clear instructions in this field. But if you want to do this, you also have to include this in the annual budgets. Otherwise, we thought that the majority itself provided a clear basis for the law that all institutions should have equal opportunities plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e679	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e682	SV and the Workers' Party are broadly in agreement, said the Chairman of the Committee in an earlier article. He is right about that, because in several areas the Centre Party is not actually involved in the comments of the SVs and/or the Workers' Party. Some common options may therefore be difficult to see in this area. One of the places where the Center Party separates teams with the comrades is in terms of the freedom of employment of the individual institution. The Central Party supports this, while the Workers' Party and the SV express concern and believe that freedom can lead to unacceptable discrimination and must be prevented, as stated in the comments. This means that the freedom of employment will be difficult to survive a possible new government based on the three parties. Does the Central Party feel comfortable in relation to the partners' policies in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e689	It's probably right to say that when it concerns the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, private right-wing education is a field where we have different emphasis. It appears both in relation to the importance of private education and in relation to freedom of entry. All three of us stand together to say that public ownership of central educational institutions is an important principle. I'm surprised that the Christian People's Party has gone away from it. In the case of freedom of addition, the Central Party considered it important to retain the ownership and value base of the individual institution. But let me also remind you that it is equally important that the institutions do not make this freedom to apply to settings that do not have teaching responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e696	Now the representative Meltveit Kleppa gave some clarification even for what is not possible in the Center Party's own program, namely a review of private colleges. But we now learned that it's a valuable addition. But is it so valuable that it also gets some public money? It's interesting to get a signal from the Socialist Party of the Centre, if they were to be put in a power position that allows them to have influence over the flow of money also to private educational institutions. The center party fights with SV for the free principle, and it is good. Is it a free principle for the Centre only if the student chooses a public owned institution? Or should we take into account that the free principle also applies to other institutions, owned by others than the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e703	I am surprised that the representative Sortevik has not got his view of the Centre Party when it comes to private right-wing education. It can be found in the settings dialog. There he'll see the sorting we do when it's significant, he'll see that we actually say that we think private institutions are an important supplement, and he'll see that we put great emphasis on equal availability to different types of education. We sort between commercial actors in this field and the many institutions we think are especially important value and professional supplements. This is also how we have said, within this free principle, that there are certain aspects that need to be clarified in order to get it fully in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e709	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e712	Through Stortinget's treatment, we have had a good compromise on new university and higher education law. The left is well pleased that there is a broad majority of the Government's legislative proposals, while at the same time we have obtained good and comprehensive compromises on the governance of institutions and on the free principle. An overall committee endorses the proposal that universities and colleges should be able to choose between two different forms of governance. Rector may, in the same way as the Government says in the proposition, be hired or elected. Even in the case of the Chairperson, the institutions are given greater freedom. This solution is fully in line with the input left has received, and I hope this can help to bring about peace in the university and higher education sectors. This setting ensures academic freedom and continued research-based education. Universities and colleges are important social institutions, which must be governed in line with their academic specificity and role in civil society. The left will allow each institution to choose the form of governance it considers most appropriate. For the left, this means that institutions will decide whether to organise the selection of the Vice-Chancellor. Each institution must be given the right to decide whether to have a pedagogical director and administrator as one and the same person in the principal, or whether to have a principal who is a pedagogical director and a managing director in addition. For the Left, it is important that no groups, either external, employees or students, have a majority in the Governing Board. This will ensure that employees and students have real influence. Institutions need to be stimulated to compete for students on the basis of study environment, professional dining environments and special study facilities. The diversity and focus on specific competences is a fundamental value of the Academy. The left is concerned with political governance only through resource allocation and framework conditions. This will ensure that important decisions are based on knowledge of professional activities and defend university autonomy. The Government Parties, together with the Workers' Party, shall ensure a majority in favour of a proposal to strengthen the free principle. It is established, in the same way as in the proposal, that no school fees may be required from students for regular courses leading to a degree or vocational training. We believe this security in the Left is important to give students. We have and are going to have free public higher education in Norway. For the Left, it is an important democratic task to ensure all the same access to education and knowledge regardless of social and cultural background. Knowledge is a basis for freedom and democracy. It is therefore essential for the Left that the new Law on Universities and Higher Education ensures the free principle. Students at state universities and colleges shall not pay school fees. Finally, the left agrees that the category of higher education institutions is now out of the legal text. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the Left assumes that this also implies that the art universities in Oslo and Bergen are assessed as soon as possible in relation to the accreditation standards for scientific colleges and accreditation for artistic scholarship programmes corresponding to doctoral degrees. I hope the department can facilitate the accreditation process as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e732	I'll be brief, but I can't end this debate without coming back to this with equality, because I think what's happening today is disappointing. As has been said repeatedly from the pulpit, there is a great deal of distance between the positions and the goals achieved for women and men in academia. It's still like men holding 85 pst. of the professorships. That's 2004 numbers. For me, it is a clear expression that concrete action is needed. I think the matter is as it stands today, that it is too offensive. At present, institutions have a special responsibility for gender equality – for all job categories. The Committee says here: ‘More women in scientific positions will therefore make an important and necessary contribution to strengthening Norwegian research.’ But it's disappointing that you don't want to go any further. And it's particularly disappointing that the Progress Party is fighting against any attempt to move forward in terms of equality. I think that the Progress Party should go rounds now when we're going to have new programs, and not just watch it all the time from a boy's office. The working party is very concerned about the lack of equality in the academy and is concrete about an action plan. One cannot just say that it should be planning; it should be a separate action plan. We suggest that in the setting along with SV. I'll stop there for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e748	The next speaker is the Council of State Kristin Clement. Before the Council of State gets the floor, the President will say that in 4 minutes the regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting will be over. The President has realized that there is a desire to end the matter at this morning's meeting. Assuming that no – or very few – are on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time, i.e. for three-minute speeches, the President will propose that today’s meeting continue until today’s map is completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e753	As has been said here today, the government's proposal for a new common university and higher education law is a response to an order from Stortinget. In the context of the Quality Reform, the Government has thus provided five large-scale messages and five propositions. Through legislative changes, changes in the funding systems of both State and private institutions, the introduction of net budgeting, new student support scheme, new degree structure and new evaluation methods, etc. it is designed to ensure that the ambitious objectives of the quality reform are and can be achieved. The reform has been implemented with broad and broadly unanimous support in the UK. I believe this has been a strength to ensure that the reform is properly implemented. For the Government, it has been – in fact, unlike for the previous government – a main priority to ensure the financing of the Quality Reform. The reform has now been fully financed according to the sector’s own estimates, thus providing a good basis for the implementation that is now taking place. The present attitude shows that there is also a broad political consensus on the need for a collection of higher education legislation in Norway. Until now, the regulation of higher education has been partly fragmented and unbridled. On the one hand, we have had a comprehensive law for state institutions. On the other hand, the private higher education law has only specified certain minimum requirements for private institutions and has in many ways not reflected the social responsibility that also rests with those institutions. The social responsibility of both State and private institutions is now reflected in a strengthened purpose clause stating that the law should facilitate education and research at a high international level. In addition, the responsibility of the institutions for dissemination has been clarified as part of the overall objective. With the Quality Reform, both government and private institutions have been given extended professional powers. The law now stipulates that all universities should have the freedom to set up and complete their own subjects without having to apply to the authorities for prior approval. With increased institutional freedom and with the same professional powers, there is also a greater responsibility. It is therefore natural that the same legal requirements are now being imposed on the professional activities of state and private institutions. It is positive that the Stortinget now gives such unanimous and broad support to the proposal for a common law. This also testifies to the fact that, in general, there is a political consensus that private institutions can no longer be considered simply as a complement to the provision of State institutions, but that they are, in fact, a professionally equivalent option. For students, the establishment of a common law is of particular importance. Firstly, the principle that degrees and vocational training at State institutions should be free of charge is enshrined in the law. The linguistic changes that have been made to the bill have been made with the support of the government parties and, as our proposal, involve the legalisation of current practices. This gives a clear signal of a clear priority for higher education in the future. The law-making of the free principle comes at a time when debates are held in a number of countries about the introduction or increase of self-payment for students. For private institutions too, it is statutory that state subsidies and self-payment from students should benefit students. This means that private institutions wishing to obtain public accreditation or grants are not able to make dividends or operate profit-based activities. The government will now further investigate the extent to which institutions offer and can offer continuing training as payment studies. Secondly, a common law will strengthen students' rights and duties. Students at private institutions are now getting clearer requirements for participation in decision-making bodies. New provisions on the learning environment, maternity leave, examination, censorship and access to justice create greater legal predictability. Equal legal frameworks of state and private institutions will also facilitate greater mobility of students. As regards the issue of the organisation of state institutions, there is broad support for the Government's proposal to continue the current organisation as a management body with special powers. With regard to the management model of these institutions, I take note that the law now opens up to each institution the freedom of choice between today's model and the model promoted in the government's bill, but so that in the latter case the principal should be employed, not elected. Even I have no problem with the solution that has been dropped by the bigotry committee. I believe that the management model government presented is best suited to meeting the institutional challenges, but at the same time sees that the institutions have mastered migration also with the model they now have. The changes made to the Government’s proposals therefore have the support of the Government Parties. Since more have been concerned about the history here, it may seem strange that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, who, in the examination of the Quality Reform report, were in favour of mandatory management models at faculty and institute level, are now so strongly opposed to mandatory solutions for the organisation of institutions' top management. I also remind you that the government of Stoltenberg, in a separate letter of consultation with proposals for changes to the law, proposed to legislate a uniform management model as a mandatory scheme. But I mean, regardless of the history of the parties, I think you've now come up with a good and coherent solution. The Committee's position appears to be very subdued and constructive in relation to the allegations made in the recent public debate, where it has been said that the Government's proposal for a model would have a dramatic, negative impact on the academia. Let me therefore just mention this as a contribution to the debate. In Sweden, there has been experience in a single management model since 1998. This model implies that the principal is a uniform professional and administrative director and is appointed by the Ministry on the recommendation of the institution's board of directors. The Board of Directors of the institution is appointed by the Ministry and consists of a majority of external members. The Chairperson is externally appointed and appointed by the Ministry. In Sweden, the latest reforms have been implemented by a social democratic government and have encountered very little resistance. The evaluations made by the management model in Sweden show that the external directors have a good understanding of the university's overall business portfolio and that the cooperation between the principal and the chairperson works very well. So this is an example of a country where there has been a significant increase in the number of people who have gone beyond the government’s proposal, without it being considered to be particularly controversial, neither political nor academic. I think it gives cause for reflection on the strong characteristics that have been used about the Government's proposals. The government's proposal implies, as you know, that the institutions could choose whether the principal should be elected or hired. In the optional model for which the Committee is now in favour, it is proposed that the Vice-Chancellor should be employed if the Government's management model is chosen. However, I would like to comment on the debate relating to whether the principal has to be elected or hired. From some quarters it has been stated that the principal must have been appointed by election in order to be able to pursue democratic principles and have legitimacy among the staff of the institution. I believe this is a little nuanced. Of course, a model with an employed principal also requires that the principal be recruited in such a way that the principal has the professional and managerial legitimacy necessary for such a position, both in relation to the institution's employees and students and in relation to the institution's governing body. Furthermore, I believe that the existing system of selecting the principal in practice has weaknesses that have not emerged in the debate. One would think that if the selection of the principal is as essential for the principal's legitimacy as many have claimed, the election attendance would also be quite high. However, the truth is that electoral participation is generally quite low. For example, NTNU figures for the principal election in 2001 show that only 14 pst. by the students and their employees together, votes were cast. Similar figures from the Vice-Chancellor's Committee of the University of Oslo in the same year show an election attendance of only 4.5 p.m. Of the students, while for the scientific staff there was a participation of 46,5 pst. In both of these institutions, two candidates with clearly different programmes were put forward, which should be mobilising the electoral process. A similar low turnout in other forms of democracy would probably lead to a considerable search for self. In my view, when state universities and colleges are given further freedom to define their own organisation, there is reason to stress that this will also lead to increased responsibilities to ensure that the institution has a governance model that is robust enough to meet the challenges facing it. Regardless of the model of senior management of each institution, this is an evolution that requires institutions to have the ability to adapt to framework conditions that will continue to be in motion. Institutions must therefore be responsible for continuously assessing whether the management model they have at all times provides sufficient governance to meet the challenges. The law lays down a clear principle of the professional independence of institutions from general political authorities. In the new law, this independence is strengthened by the fact that individual employments or appointments are also part of academic freedom. As academic institutions, universities and universities depend on their professional independence in order to have a satisfactory professional and social legitimacy. The treatment has raised questions about the individual academic rights of individual employees. I am pleased that the Stortinget is now asking the Government to investigate further the possibilities and needs for a law-enforcement. The government will, among other things, come back to this in the research report, and in this connection I have noticed the contributions of the representatives Voies and Lyngstad. I also record that the Stortinget asks the Government to promote a case that assesses the need for its own regulations in the Law on Universities and Universities on the Use of Year's Goals and Temporary Recruitment. This will have to be done following the treatment of the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act, and the Government would have had to promote a separate legislative proposal with the necessary adjustments as a result of changes in these laws. The Ministry will therefore aim to promote its own legislative proposal with the necessary amendments to the new UH Act. I believe that the Committee's position has produced a result that I believe will serve as a good basis for a whole sector. A common law also sets a preliminary sentence for the major structural changes in higher education resulting from the quality reform, changes implemented with broad political outreach. We've got a time-real law and a law that the students, society and not least the institutions themselves should see well served.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e795	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e798	People get to consider who has changed the position during the examination of the government bill. I believe in any case that we have got a good result. An almost unanimous committee says that it is pleased that the institutions are continuing as executive bodies with special powers. The Clemet Council of State, in its time, put the majority proposal of the Ryssdal Committee in the drawer. In Ot.prp. No 79 for 2003-2004 reads as follows: ‘The Ministry therefore does not wish to propose a new compulsory form of association for state universities and universities now.’ I just want to make sure that the Council of State now takes note of this committee position, provides predictability for the institutions in relation to organizational forms for a while to come and allows them to focus on the most important thing: research and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e810	Personally, I find it not entirely credible that there is only one form of association in the world that enables these institutions to meet their challenges, until the best universities in the world have far too different forms of association. But I have no current plans to propose any change in the form of an association. In connection with the setting of the Ryssdal committee, there were three things in particular that were in focus: one was in common law, and there was a great deal of excitement about it. The second was the management model, where there were different and nuanced views, and the government promoted a proposal that is now being slightly adjusted. The third was — and there was great disagreement — the question of form of association. I then came in light of this, that I would go in to keep the current form of connection, as the representative himself said, for a while to come. Yes, I can confirm that for a while to come. But from here to eternity, I give no guarantees.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e817	A matter of temporaryity and aim. There, the Council of State, as I perceived it, tried to minimize this extra round and said this would come as a despatch anyway. I would like to remind you that the parties supporting point B in the final roll-out show considerable scepticism for extensive temporaryity and extensive use of targets. I would also like to point out that what has been read and presented in the odelstingsproposition that has just come about the Working Environment Act is short-term, temporary relationships of up to 12 months. There is a significant distance between 12 months and 12 years. It could have been a good idea if the Council of State could sum up very briefly what are the main reasons for the need to legislate for as long a period of time in the law as regards so many other matters for educational institutions — why one chooses to do so here and does not leave it within the general legislation for relations relating to employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e824	It has always been clear that we would have to come back to an adjustment of the UH Act when the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act have been dealt with. The alternative was to wait until it was treated in Stortinget. I think that would meet criticism from another team, because there has been a strong desire for a common UH law as soon as possible. How we're going to design this, I think, in respect of the Storting, we have to wait for Storting's treatment of the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act before we decide. To the very principle, there were evaluations in its time that showed that the ability to convert at our universities and colleges was too low, because there was too much fixed employment and a large part of the expenditure was tied up to a fixed salary. That was the reason why one was in favour of temporaryity in its time. At the same time, it is clear that the activities of universities and higher education institutions are, by their very nature, long-term. The transitional period must have a certain long-term character in order for it to function effectively in such institutions. As I said, we have to come back to this once the Storting has dealt with the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act – if any, it calls an adjustment or change. I won't take too strong words in my mouth until we see what we're actually suggesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e834	It was an interesting point in that the Council of State takes note that a unanimous committee has now said that we should have a different management structure than the one proposed by the Council of State. And then she uses most of the rest of the post to polemize against what the majority represents, and defend its original model. I thought that was a little bit interesting. My question to the Council of State is on uniform management. I also mentioned this in my article with uniform management. One of her arguments against the old model, which is now adopted as the main model, has been that it is not consistent enough. Does the Council of State think that the model we are now adopting can work consistently? Just so she gets to clarify it. So a question that goes into research. The majority of the Committee emphasises that 50 pst. of the time for scientific personnel to be used for research purposes and the continuation of the current system. How will the Council of State monitor this in relation to the institutions, so that it is properly clarified and dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e843	Thank you for thinking that was an interesting article. I don't think I polemized, I thought it was important to clarify that the government's original proposal did not mean that the principal had to be hired, as many people seem to believe, nor proposals for a change in the composition of the board or an external majority. Besides, when the Storting goes in to be able to use this model, but then with the employee principal, I think that there is a basis for problematizing and nuanceing the notion that the principal so to speak does not have legitimacy and trust if he becomes an employee, because it is quite obvious that it must have any leader. I also think that the public debate is in some contrast to the debate we have here today. There may be a lot of reasons for this, but I think this example from Sweden might be an illustration of some of the reasons why, that at least there had to be an interesting addition to the debate. I believe that the model for which the Government has opted involves a uniform management. What we have today does not involve integrated unified leadership at the top. Some call it a two-part unified management. You could call it what you want, but I don't think it's uniform and not integrated. This does not mean that it cannot necessarily work. When it comes to academic freedom, I come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e854	In June, 26 girls from five municipalities in Rogaland received approval as nurses through the Högskulen Stord Haugesund. Common to all 26 were unskilled practices that gave formal competence due to decentralised education. The hive had good experience in this experiment, but the lack of funding and change in the funding system of the hives means that the supply is not being passed on, in spite of a great deal of interest. This is one of many examples of the fact that far more people could have received professional education, acquired skills for themselves and society, if higher education had been more available, practical and economic. Why then clear sorting between education at the place of study and other provision of education? Why doesn't the government go for an extended free principle either?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e859	This reply could leave the impression that universities and colleges have received less money in recent years. It's quite the opposite. They have been granted substantial additional public funding, both exceptional in the context of the Quality Reform and as a disbursement in the context of the new funding system. It is precisely in Norway that the public funding of our higher education institutions is very high compared to what is seen in other countries. The debate on the free principle seems quite strange to me. I heard nothing about it before we set up the Ryssdal Committee and mentioned in the mandate that they should look at the free principle for the simple reason that we should now have a common law for private and public institutions, and then you have to look at the free principle. Then we propose to legislate it and go counter-current in relation to the whole world. So it's just that there's not enough, that there's something wrong with that. We have proposed to legislate the principle as it is practised today, and it is a much stronger protection of the free principle, because before that, the Stortinget has given it an open authority to practise this free principle at all times. No one was against it until quite a short time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e866	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e869	In a few minutes, Odelstinget will adopt a unanimous decision on the new law on universities and colleges. This Decision, except for a few amendments, is identical to the Government’s proposal. This must be a great surprise to those who know only the matter from the media, and who must have had the unmistakable impression that the Government's proposal was a frontal attack on the freedom of research and the professional maritime administration in the academy. Many will undoubtedly also be surprised that there is at all something left of the government's bill, after having been told for a long time that the Council of State in this matter would be severely defeated. But the consensus is so great, and if no government councils get more severe defeat than this, they have every reason to be satisfied. The great excitement and the great war headlines, however, belong in the last few months. The tone was quite different when the bill was presented. In an opinion of the Council of Universities and Colleges, it is called inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Board of Universities and Higher Education is essentially satisfied with the draft submitted and has noted that it is in line with the sector previously notified. [[UHR]] The UHR has also noted that the draft law continues the autonomy gained by the institutions through amendments to the existing law.’ The University and Higher Education Council reiterated its desire for freedom of choice in relation to the organisational and management form of institutions, but did not give any indication that the Council considered the legislative proposal to be a frontal attack on the traditional role of universities in society. The big question then becomes: Where did the great uprising and the overwhelming commitment come from, if we assume that the nights of the University and Higher Education Council – to some extent also positive – reaction are more consistent with the reality of the matter than the most voiced opponents? In fact, the Urramatic Committee setting is a rather sure signal that the use of words in this matter has not been in proportion to reality. Probably we've been dealing with at least three different groupings, with different starting points and different agendas. Firstly, on the basis of opposition to the Government's proposal for a mandatory governance model, a group of reputable and experienced university teachers and researchers have pushed out against all the trends and things they disagree with in today's situation in higher education. It is said they are in their full right to do, but it would have been a wonder if the implementation of the comprehensive quality reform had happened without problems or without realizing that some things could have been handled differently along the way. They must have forgotten that the quality reform was adopted by the Stortinget in the previous period, and that all the principles they are now responding to were adopted on the proposal of the then Trond Giske State Council. You could say a lot about Trond Giske, but some hot spokesperson for the market adaptation of Norwegian higher education is hardly him. Another group that has participated actively are the student organisations. They learned that the government, which is the first to try to legislate on the principle of free education, was looking for the introduction of tuition fees in Norway, and they had the clear evidence that some educational institutions are demanding, for example, that they should: copy money, was made to the forerunner so that they would suddenly receive tuition fees of several tens of thousand kroner per. years. At this point, the legislative proposal and the vote are proof that the criticism was out of date, and that both the legislative proposal and the vote are based on a continuation of current practice. The last grouping that points out is Attac and other social debaters, who see it all as a single big conspiracy, where the Clemet Council is going through «the combination of market mechanisms and bureaucratic governance principles in the future mainly ensure the production of relatively competent workers into a business that will lower its comparative competitive advantage from responsive research institutions». This quote is from Dagbladet on 18 January 2005. The self proof of this conspiracy is that the Clement ‘with a self-conception’ is to integrate private universities and universities into the same system as the public. Now, of course, it is intended to deprive the State Council of ownership of good proposals, but also in this case the initiative comes from another team. In the Quality Reform setting, a unanimous committee asks the Government to draft proposals for a common law for state and private institutions in higher education. So this so-called conspiracy covers all of the games. Finally, we now have an up-to-date and timely law, which is also a significant step towards equality between private and public institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e901	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e909	Odelstinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e917	28 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the independent representatives' proposals No. 2 and 3, by Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4 and 5, by Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 6-22, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and independent representatives, No. 23-27, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsenproposal No. 28, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e1997	The President will first draw attention to a technical correction in Section 9-3, fifth paragraph, where it shall read ‘set out after the second or third subparagraphs’. The President will propose that there be a vote on the proposals first and, where possible, that the vote be taken as an alternative. Then the paragraphs in the setting that some fractions want to oppose are voted over, and finally the paragraphs in the setting that are unanimous are voted over. – No objections have been raised, and this will be the case. We start with the suggestions from the smallest fractions. Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 28, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 4-3 is replaced by the following: In designing the physical working environment, provision shall be made for: (a) premises, access routes, stairways, etc.; (c) the premises are maintained and clean and tidy.d) the premises are constructed in such a way as to avoid adverse physical stresses on the students.e) the activities are planned to prevent damage and accidents.f) the technical facilities and equipment are provided with protective devices and are maintained so that students are protected from damage to life and health.g) the premises, access routes, sanitary facilities and technical facilities are designed in such a way that disabled persons can study at the institution.h) the learning environment is designed for students of both sexes.i) the learning environment is designed in accordance with the principle of universal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2057	I voted wrong. I should have voted for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2064	The Committee's position was then approved by 61 votes to nine. The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposals No. 23, 25, 26 and 27, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2121	The proposals are then put to the vote. 15 and 17, from the Progress Party and independent representatives. Option is optional.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2156	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 6-14, 18 and 21, from the Progress Party and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2299	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, which reads: ‘Section 7-1, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: State universities and colleges may not require self-payment from students for education leading to a degree or vocational training.» The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2319	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2350	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2357	Are there any others who have voted incorrectly? The President understands that there are several people who have voted incorrectly. So we're going to vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2371	Finally, alternately between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and independent representatives. The proposal reads as follows: the second paragraph of Sections 5 to 3 is replaced by the following: Justification shall normally be given within two weeks of the candidate’s request. The justification shall set out the general principles on which the assessment is based and the assessment of the candidate’s performance. Justification is given orally or in writing at the choice of the sensor. The reasons shall be given in writing if the candidate so requires.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2389	It was supposed to be a vote on the proposals that were not sent to Stortinget, and we are going to vote on the paragraphs in the setting that some fractions want to go against. The Progress Party and independent representatives want to go against § 3-10 fourth paragraph and § 6-2.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2403	The Workers' Party has announced that they are in favour of the fourth paragraph of Section 6-3, which is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2415	The Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen opposes § 6-3, sixth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2427	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre go against § 6-4, first paragraph, points (e) to (j) and § 6-4, third and fourth paragraphs, as well as Sections 6-5 and 6-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2439	The paragraphs, paragraphs and letters in the settings under chapters 1 to 13 above which there are no voting rights are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2449	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2460	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-28-lower.ana.ud159e2476	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
