ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e48	The safety of Norwegian aviation has been good. It's been easy to convince people that flying in Norway is safe. However, if it is still safe to fly in Norway, increased efforts and action are required from the Norwegian authorities. The safety of air depends on the good functioning and good safety culture of all actors involved in aviation. Should it be safe to fly, it is required that both airlines, who are in spite of everything flying passengers and are good at safety, and Avinor, who operates the aerodromes and control towers, and who manage the airspace, do a good job. And then we're required to have an air traffic control that is capable of ensuring that everyone else does their job. The special feature of the situation of Norwegian aviation is that there are major changes in the air carriers, in Avinor and in the Air Safety Authority. That's the sum of everything that's happening in the different parts of aviation, which makes us want to have this round in Stortinget about the safety of the air. But let me clarify one thing: we don't want to make people afraid to fly. Our wish is that we should also be able to tell Norwegian travellers in the future that it is safe to fly in Norway. But then we have to take seriously the warning lights that flash. In June, the representative Ausdal Starrfelt of the Workers’ Party raised the situation in aviation in a written question to the Minister for Transport. In its reply, the Council of State writes: ‘I share your view that civil aviation in Norway is in a phase of major change and challenges. The big airlines are implementing measures to get cheaper operations. In addition, more new companies will be created. Competition is getting tougher and the price is an important competitive factor in this context. Under such circumstances, it is of particular importance that air traffic control should be able to carry out its control and oversight tasks in a fully justified and effective manner.’;» In the autumn of 2004, it was also clear that the conversion process in Avinor is very difficult and that there is no communication between management and trustees. Air traffic controllers publicly express their concerns about aviation safety in Norway due to the switchover. The conversion process in Avinor is called ‘Take-off-05’, and after several rounds, where air traffic was also hit, it is now time out in this conversion process. From our point of view, we would like to stress that the relationship between management and employees of a security organisation is important for the organisation's ability to perform the job they are going to do. Therefore, aviation safety in Norway depends on the competence of the personnel employed. This understanding was not always as easy to see that management in Avinor shared. In the fall, we also had a horror experience that, after a heroic act, did not have a tragic outcome. A man went amok with an ax and tried to steer a Kato Air plane. The safety procedures on the short-range network became the focus and the adopted implementation of safety controls on all persons required to be on board aeroplanes also on the short-range network was forced. The experience showed with all the gruesome clarity how vulnerable we are. In view of the turbulence we experienced in aviation, the Minister for Transport gave a special mission to the Civil Aviation and Railways Commission. The mission was to go through the whole situation in Norwegian aviation for safety and to report to the Government before the summer of 2005. Aviation challenges also focused attention on the state of aviation oversight. Already in its reply to the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt in June 2004, the Minister for Transport wrote the following about the situation of the Air Safety Authority: ‘In day-to-day operations, the consequences are that fewer inspections are carried out in the airlines, workshops, etc. At the same time, it is recorded that the number of non-conformities increases in the inspections carried out.» During the autumn, it was also clear that a relatively large number of employees in the Air Traffic Inspectorate had resigned from their posts. The remaining employees had to train those who were new employees, while they had to cover the functions of those who had stopped, and else they had to do their usual job. Last week, the Committee on Civil Aviation and Railways chose to present an interim report as referred to by the Air Safety Authority, because the Air Safety Authority has an overall role as the Authority’s control body for aviation Norway. It chose to do so because of the concerns and uncertainties raised in the wake of the Stortingen decision on the transfer of supervision to Bodø. I want to go through some of the points that the Commission is drawing up. But first let me say, the conditions of the Disaster Commission point to are very serious. We can't live with a supervision of how important parts of the business are. Regarding the recruitment process carried out in the supervision, the Commission writes that the study conducted by the Ministry of Labour and Administration under Victor D. Norman did not sufficiently address the competence requirements to be met when recruiting central aviation professionals in the Air Safety Authority. The Commission also stresses that supervision is subject to some rigid international legislation and is controlled against it. It also points out that if, for various reasons, the Air Safety Authority does not have the power to comply with the international requirements, the Air Safety Authority may be at risk of being subjugated, with the loss of reputation and international sanctions or restrictions as possible consequences. This is not a desired situation for Norwegian aviation. The Commission then points to three areas of the Air Safety Authority that are not functioning properly. It is the section concerned with airworthiness, including type acceptance, that approves new aeroplane types and significant repairs and modifications of aeroplanes. Then it's the offshore helicopter business, which has lost key professionals. The Committee draws up, among other things: a number of safety recommendations made following the serious Norne accident in 1997 are still being addressed, i.e. actions that can contribute to improved security have not yet been implemented. And with the storms and hurricanes we've experienced in the last few weeks, it may well be that flying helicopter to the North Sea is a business we want to supervise. The third part that does not function properly is that of risk-based supervision. According to the Commission, the Air Safety Authority is responsible for: today does not have the necessary professional competence to carry out this work. It's serious. This is perhaps the most serious thing in the long term, because it also goes beyond what requirements you should be able to make further. The Disaster Commission says that it is very important at this time with increased competition and tight economy that we have a supervision that works, because the conversion processes that deal with rationalisation, de-manning, mergers, organisational changes and the fragmentation of responsibilities are potentially risky, and therefore it is especially important to focus on it. The Commission also points out that international studies show that, for example, after major conversion processes. in the United States and Switzerland, a build-up of serious incidents and accidents. There's reason to think that we can get into such a phase soon, and that therefore there's reason to be extra aware. The Commission concludes that an action plan needs to be drawn up - and that this must be done by the Ministry of Transport in consultation with the Air Safety Authority - in order to bring aviation oversight up to a level where it functions properly as quickly as possible. Let me finally say one thing: I have registered that someone has interpreted us to it that when we say that security is most important, it means that we want a rematch on the decision Stortinget has made about moving to Bodø. That's not right. The decision of the Trustee is final and it is the responsibility of the Government to implement that decision. What action will the Council of State then take to ensure air safety competence in Norwegian aviation and to ensure the proper functioning of supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e92	In Norway, the aircraft plays a very important role, both for individuals and for business. The districts depend on well-functioning air traffic. I therefore place great emphasis on the authorities, airlines and Avinor to contribute to efficient and, in particular, safe air travel. Conversions in aviation have this as their starting point. The representative, Heidi Sørensen, points to many aviation safety challenges that I am very concerned about, and I want to pay tribute to the representative, Sørensen, because she has put this interpellation in place. I want to assure you at the outset that it is essential for the Government that the various changes we are now seeing in Norwegian aviation should not weaken aviation safety. The goal of the Government is constantly improving security. There is a lot of debate about aviation and security at the moment. That's good. However, I am concerned that aviation safety should not be used as an argument against any kind of conversion. It is natural for those affected by job conversion and job loss to respond, but we must be careful to use security as an argument against conversion which, for many reasons, may be absolutely necessary. There are very large changes going on, including internationally, both on the infrastructure side and among airlines. This migration has both improved efficiency and enhanced safety as a goal. Conversions are accompanied by significant legislative developments. Both nationally and internationally, increasing air safety requirements are being imposed, both in what we call ‘safety’ and in ‘security’. For example, technical weekly newspapers showed: recently on its website that aviation safety at the global level was very good in 2004 compared to previous years. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that any safety adverse effect of the changes in aviation cannot be measured by a snapshot without delay. The number of accidents and incidents in aviation is very low. We must therefore look at developments over a long period of time. And then it's important that we work to avoid seeing a negative development. So to the ongoing conversion in Avinor. The Board of Directors of Avinor has adopted a comprehensive migration programme aimed at reducing costs by 400 million. kr per. years from 2006. This is necessary for the company to be able to meet future challenges and to provide reasonable services to airlines. The costs have decreased, which has contributed to the Ministry of Transport being able to lower the air charges by close to 1 pst. from 1 January 2005. Travelers in that country will then benefit from reasonable and secure airport services. It has been argued by Avinor that the conversion measures should at least maintain the level of safety in Norwegian aviation. It is also essential for the Government to maintain or improve the level of security. The government explained the conversion in St.meld. No 36 for 2003-2004, on the activities of Avinor AS, and in the budget proposal for 2005. As we can see, I have not found any basis for intervention in the process, but I am following developments closely, and in particular any possible consequences for aviation safety. In this situation, with developments both in this market and in relation to aerodromes, it is particularly important that we have supervision that can follow. So a little bit about the Air Safety Authority. The principal task of supervision is to monitor the compliance of actors with safety legislation and regulations. In other words, it is the individual actor, such as Avinor and the airlines, who is responsible for safety. Air traffic controllers shall move to Bodø. I take it for granted that Storting's decision on this is firm. I therefore believe that the management should be established in Bodø by 1 January 2007. Information provided by the Air Safety Authority shows that it will be difficult to have full operational supervision in place in Bodø from that date. For me, the overall objective is to maintain flight safety during the movement process and to minimise the deterioration of oversight functions during the movement period. I therefore intend to consider opening up some functions of the Air Safety Authority to be temporarily maintained in Oslo in addition to 1 January 2007. I intend to return to Stortinget with the result of these assessments in spring 2005. As an immediate measure, I have previously found it appropriate to open up a smaller number of supervisory staff to be offered work in Oslo in addition to the original transfer date. However, I would like to point out that despite the challenges of manning, it works per year. Today as many as approx. 130 highly qualified persons in the oversight and about 20 persons in attendance who are under training at the Bodø office. It will be the responsibility of the supervisory board to ensure that these significant resources are used in the best possible way with a view to maintaining supervisory tasks. As referred to in the Interpellation, I have commissioned the Civil Aviation and Railway Commission to carry out an assessment of the state of aviation safety during the conversion phase in which both the aviation industry and the aviation authorities are now involved. The Commission shall deliver its assessments to the Ministry by 1 June 2005. The Commission shall, if necessary, report to the Ministry of Transport in the course of its work. The Commission has prepared an interim report on the challenges related to the Air Safety Authority. According to the Commission’s assessment, supervision is not effective on the basis of: to date fully satisfactory. The Commission therefore asks the Ministry of Transport, in consultation with the Air Safety Authority, to draw up a concrete action plan to ensure competence in some key areas, such as: the helicopter operations offshore, airworthiness and risk-based oversight. The Commission’s assessments are in line with the assessments also carried out by the Ministry, and the Ministry contacted the Air Safety Authority on these issues before we received the report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The Commission's report will be further followed up. Different organisational solutions and personal measures will be considered. I want to clarify in the message that we are presenting to Stortinget in a short time what such a plan will look like. Finally, I would like to point out that I am very concerned that the overall safety of the aircraft is to be ensured during a conversion period. I look at the Disaster Commission as well as at Avinor and the Air Safety Authority as well as important contributors in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e126	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'd like to continue a little bit where the Council of State left off, about the recommendations of the Disaster Commission. Let me first stress that I agree that security cannot be used as an argument against any conversion. But I don't think it's the Commission's fault when they're worried about the state we're in right now. In its recommendations, the Commission states that under ‘normal’ circumstances it would be the supervisory authority concerned’s own responsibility to implement such an action plan, but in this case the Commission finds that: ‘The Ministry of Transport, in consultation with the Authority, assumes this responsibility. This is because political involvement has been and is a central part of the issue and therefore represents possible, and in the opinion of HSLB, the necessary instruments in such an action plan. Let me say that we have also said in the past that the concrete measures to which the Council refers are measures that we can put ourselves behind. These are the measures linked to the temporary retention of some functions in Oslo. What we cannot accept is the situation in the Air Safety Authority per year. the date, as described in the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Civil Liberties. I only have one errand in the end, and that is to say we are looking forward to having this action plan presented to the Stortinget as soon as possible. What has happened since the Director of Air Traffic Control sent a letter to the State Council in December is that people who have first agreed to positions in Bodø have subsequently resigned because of the uncertainty that is. It's very unfortunate. It is important that we get the action plan in place as quickly as possible, so that work can be started over time. We have said in the past that we want it before the end of January. When the Council of State says as quickly as possible, I would like to ask if there is such a time horizon she sees for herself.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e142	We're talking about the fact that security can be used as an argument against conversion processes, but that wasn't the theme of the Commission's report to us. It dealt with the specific challenges that we face in the Air Safety Authority today. We have seen it necessary to ask for input from a qualified external body to make assessments of this situation. One thing is that many actors are in a transition, but we also have the supervision to oversee this, which is undergoing a transformation. As I said in my post, the assessments made by the Harvard Commission are in line with the assessments already made by the ministry. We see that we can't have it so that we lack important functions. They have to be in place. That's what we've been working on. That's why we've opened up that if we don't get these in place in Bodø now, we have to give room for them to be in Oslo. What this is about here is taking serious care of safety. I would also like to stress that there is a safety oversight. This does not in any way deprive the actors, whether the airport or the companies, of their responsibility for security. I think all the actors are in agreement with that. But we need someone who can see all the actors in the cards. That's what's the function of supervision. Now we are in that situation, after two rounds of calls, that we have far too few in place in Bodø compared to what we should have had according to the timetable that has been drawn up. And then I want to stress that I don't know about any other supervision of those who are going to move, who have worked so focused on clear milestones along the way, because we've seen that to get a successful move here, we need a proper plan for that. As evolution has now progressed, we are not in place. That is why we have taken immediate action, because we have seen it as necessary. I'll come back to Stortinget as soon as I can. I can't promise a date here and now, but I promise that we have a very high pace of this. But we also want a good quality of what we come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e155	I am pleased with the interpellation and I am behind what the representative Sørensen said in his post. In three minutes, I will concentrate mainly on the Air Safety Authority and be as forward-looking as possible. I am pleased that the Council of State is now offensive to the issues, perhaps with the exception of the situation in Avinor AS. But now I'm going to talk about the Air Safety Authority. It is a year and a half since the decision was taken. The premise was probably something wrong, a bit exaggerated, it was said, that there were too many flying personnel. State councils have been a little in a hurry. Time might have been used more offensively. But now is now, and then you can always discuss what are flying options. For the Workers' Party, it is such that the security is at the bottom. Security is the most important point. And the decision is firm. But one must look at possibilities. One may need to increase the size of the needle relative to the recruitment process. One must make some adjustments as the council points to. I'm going to deal with some of these issues. I think it's important when you're going to move, that you see possibilities and not problems, and that you maybe get someone to recruit people, not themselves. We know that the resistance of the Air Safety Authority has been great, and even if a formal view has done what one should have done, you might want to look at that page. Then it has been claimed that there are many with aeronautical background in Bodø who do not get through the throne of the needle. I ask the Council of State to take a closer look at that. For the Harvari Commission, write ‘that other relevant experience may compensate as long as it is a single individual admitted to an existing strong occupational environment’. That's what it's been like before. So the Disaster Commission says that they think this is a good idea, so that it can go back to it. Then you have to look at people who are retired from the defense, or who might be thinking of moving out of the defense, people who may not have an adequate civil aviation background, people who have a technical challenge. Maybe you can create some packages so that they can update and enter an overall environment. I've been quoted as wanting my own boss in Bodø. I think it's important that a recruiter recruits people, not themselves. I would like the Council of State to respond to whether it agrees with the Commission on the need for this to be addressed by the Ministry of Transport or whether it wants it to remain with the Air Safety Authority itself. It's our view that we don't have a day to lose. One must use very active time. We need to be open to time adjustments and perhaps even when there are a few options. But this isn't a rematch. It is only to confirm your move and make it secure. Bodø shall become the place of work and the location of the Air Safety Authority. Most of them are supposed to be there from 2007, and everyone goes to Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e176	Changes were absolutely necessary in the management of Samferdsels-Norway. Heavy structures and work routines were not adapted to a changing world. Necessary change processes and innovation support against interests other than those set up by organisations. User groups are often unorganised and fight different fights against organised interests. So it was like this. with air passengers, who had to find themselves at unbridled fares for too long due to a lack of competition between airlines and unripe and costly management systems. Exclusion of immature management companies was a right move to develop creativity and make use of the great competence that employees literally had. The modernisation process challenged strong groups. Air traffic controllers with pay level in fifth gear and conversion mode in reverse deepened their position by paralysing Fly-Norway. Claims were made that the changes would reduce the level of safety in the air. There is reason to warn against pushing security ahead in order not to take the necessary organisational action. In particular, it is regrettable that groups that are themselves able to influence safety use this grip. Self-fulfilled prophecies are a small actable activity. The requirement for the modernisation of the old aviation facility has always been that the organisation be built up as a security organisation. Not one change would be implemented that would not contribute to the high level of safety we already have in aviation Norway. Aviation is the world’s safest form of transport – and was safer in 2004 than ever. We have joined international aviation organisations that set security criteria for membership and monitor members' follow-up to security procedures. Not later than 9 November last year, the Stortinget decided to transpose an EU directive into Norwegian law imposing a drastically increased reporting obligation on its members in the case of aerodromes and aeroplanes. Nationally, too, we were given proof of operational capability as the axe drama on board the aircraft at Narvik led to the forced implementation of security controls on passengers and baggage. The removal process of the Air Safety Authority represents a major challenge, but the process will not take place more quickly than all-time and all-round safety. The Commission shall analyse the safety of the conversion process in relation to both the aviation industry and the aviation authorities. The Ministry will present an action plan to look at key aviation competences. It will be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e191	I would first like to stress that the Advance Party voted against the transfer of the Air Traffic Authority as this matter was under consideration in due course. Already at that time, we saw clearly the problems that could arise in the process of moving. The aviation oversight was the least suitable establishment for relocation, due to the high standards of expertise and the environment needed to maintain air safety. It was then a majority for the transfer of the Air Safety Authority to Bodø. However, the movement has always been based on the maintenance and quality assurance of aviation safety. Security must first, and in any case it must be given the highest priority. The Party stresses once again that the Minister for Transport is constitutionally responsible for the follow-up of the security aspect, and that this is followed by the eyes of the arctic people from day to day. Signals and indications have already been provided that air safety indicates signs of deterioration, including: in a letter/report dated 6 January 2005 from the Civil Aviation and Railway Commission. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Transport to immediately return the case to Stortinget for a new treatment. The Progress Party maintains its position that the location of the Air Safety Authority with the overriding objective of cementing optimum air safety is - and remains - in Oslo and on Gardermoen, where the environment and expertise are well established. In any case, any other location would contribute to margins that would not benefit optimum air safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e200	For reasons of time, I shall confine myself to the issue of aviation safety and the transfer of the Air Safety Authority to Bodø. State councils have signaled that she is coming to Stortinget with a briefing on how the move decision is to be implemented. It has to happen quickly. It is urgent to clarify this question. The twenty persons who have started in Bodø must be clearly informed that the removal decision will be implemented. The same applies to those who wish to apply to the Air Safety Authority in the future. At the last addition, six out of nine people who are employed have not taken the job because of uncertainty about the move. Therefore, there is a need for rapid clarification. SV took part in the decision to transfer the supervision to Bodø, and our position is on track. The movement shall be carried out, but it is obvious that more time is needed than originally foreseen. The accident commission has produced an in-flight report telling us that important functions in supervision are weakened by the closure of a number of people. It is serious and action needs to be taken. But the challenges must not appear to be insurmountable. The Swedish aviation authority was in due course moved from Stockholm to Norrköping. They also had to make some adjustments by adding some functions afterwards to Arlanda. The Swedes did it. Then we have to do the jam here in Norway too. The Commission does not take a position on the removal decision, but simply considers that, in consultation with the supervisory authority, the ministry must draw up a credible action plan for three important functions in supervision as soon as possible. In line with that, I believe that the Council of State must take direct action on the process of relocation itself. I have recorded with great amazement that the management of the Air Safety Authority is at the political arena and is debating whether the decisions of the Stortinge can and should be implemented - even if the supervision should possibly be moved to another place. It's directly unacceptable. This is a clear signal that the Air Safety Authority has a management who does not believe that the decision can be implemented and who is leading this process with his back first. It doesn't work when we talk about the maybe most difficult movement process of all. It must be led by people who are both engaged and enthusiastic, who believe that moving is possible and who believe that it makes sense. I have registered the proposal that the removal process should be managed by a separate director, located in Bodø. I agree with that, and it can be added: directly under the direction of the department. We therefore expect, as Heidi Sørensen stated in his statement, that when the matter comes to Stortinget in the near future, all doubts will be resolved, and that the Council of State will take direct action on the removal process itself, so that the move to Bodø can be carried out as the Stortinget has foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e221	For the Christian People's Party, it is important to give its full support to the priority of aviation security that Minister for Transport Skogsholm places so much emphasis on. There is no doubt that the migration process as Norwegian aviation is in the process of being implemented. The transformation adopted by the Stortinget is extensive, but the process of conversion must continue. No one should ever be in doubt that during this migration process security is a priority. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget and the Ministry that safety in air should be ensured as we make the changes we are now making. At the same time, it must be clear that the ongoing process of conversion must continue, even if the pace has to be reduced somewhat. The Christian People's Party is holding a tough course in the localization case. We will continue to move the entire Air Safety Authority to Bodø. The movement has been decided by Stortinget and will be carried out. The aviation environment in Bodø is solid and is already responsible for a significant part of civil as well as military aviation in the country. Bodø's solid aviation environment welcomes the supervision to the city. The Christian People's Party supports the Council of State's assessment of a temporary division and underlines very strongly, as the National Council of Skogsholm also does, that such a possible division of aviation oversight should not be permanent. Some functions may be retained in Oslo for a period, but not on a fixed basis. It should not be an option at all to have a permanent division, with a large regional office located in the capital, while a small head office is located in Bodø. The Christian People's Party is in favour of introducing measures and making concrete action plans for the further relocation process. Among other things, we look at the possibility to create a separate project organisation that can control the moving process from Bodø. I think it's necessary for two reasons: to create peace among already employees in Bodø, and to make the further employment process credible. We have full confidence that the Council of State and the Government will find good solutions that will safeguard the overall interests, that there will be implementation of the Storting decision and the continuation of the current level of safety in Norwegian aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e236	It is an important and serious theme that Heidi Sørensen addresses in the interview. Safety in the transport sector must continue to be the focus. It must be an inescapable requirement that we should not go on chords with the safety of aviation or other forms of transport. Heidi Sørensen said in his first post that it is the sum of the work done by all the operators in aviation that determines safety. That's exactly what I'm saying. All pieces must be in place and worked together in order to operate optimally. No one has been able to avoid noticing that there are concerns in Avinor about the transition that has taken place. When performing large conversion processes, it is decisive that the whole organisation is involved in the work and that a sytem for all to be given ownership of the change. It's obvious that there's a bit of a shortage here in what's happened in Avinor. The council said she was following this situation closely. However, it must also constantly assess whether it should be a passive auditor, for it has a superior responsibility and must carefully assess its role in such processes. Air traffic oversight has an important role to play in security work before aviation. Today, we see that attempts are being made to produce the decision on moving to Bodø and the move process as the reason why one is now asking questions about the optimum functioning of aviation oversight over the years to come. But if we have good plan processes for moving and a positive attitude - and not least the will - to implement the decision, we have several examples that moving processes have been accomplished with great luck. The centre lot is determined by the removal decision. We may be able to discuss whether more time is needed for the relocation of some parts of the Air Traffic Authority, but I am pleased that the Council of State decides that the move decision is firm, and that one should come back to Stortinget with a case where we get a closer assessment of how one can carry out this process without going along with security. I think it's important now that we make peace around the process. I want to ask the Council of State to help - to a greater extent than has happened so far - calm down the various statements where questions are asked both in the move process and, not least, in the whole decision. The Stortinget has made a decision, and the Stortinget -- as I understand it here today -- is determined by this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e250	After the decision to move was taken in Stortinget, there has been a lot of bread and circuses around it. At least it's going to be perceived like this. I guess it's also perceived that in some environments you want a rematch. I have to say I was a little surprised by the Thore A of the Progress Party when he made it visible that the Progress Party really -- as I see it at least -- might want a rematch on the move decision. Here I would have looked at how the representatives from the Nordic countries and from the other parts of the country react. I hope, at least, and believe that a large majority in this Chamber do not want a rematch, but respect the decision. I am pleased that the Council of State has confirmed that the removal decision will be implemented. Then I will also mention safety. I guess no one wants to get rid of it when it comes to aviation. It's job number. 1 to have safe air traffic in this country. We've come here today because we're not satisfied with the move process, with the way it's been handled. We're going to have to do a little bit of what's happened, but we're going to have to look forward. I mean, like others, that the most important thing the Council of State can now take is to hire a self-employed recruiter in Bodø, with an office there. I think that might help solve some of these problems. For the criteria excluding applicants with only military experience, they seem strict. It must be possible to create a separate package for those who give them a job before they have worked seven years in civil aviation. I also think it's important that you might be a little creative and look at some commuting arrangements. I think it's important that the Council of State takes part of the recordings she gets here today. We must have a leader sitting in the driver's seat, not outside. It's up to the Council of State to do this. I also believe that it can help solve the problems if you hire your own person in Bodø. If anyone is wondering if Bodø has a proper aviation environment, you should go there and do it immediately, because Bodø is probably the most beautiful and best place in the aviation environment in that country. And you've also had tradition of that. I think the Council of State needs to put in stronger shots if the process of moving is to succeed. When the council returns to Stortinget, I hope she has some good solutions. I will make a final call. I believe I have actually believed - if this is not correct, I ask someone to confirm or cancel it - that Director Skogstad has met with the Municipality of Bodø and the environment there. But I perceived it this way last Monday, when we were there, that this had not happened. I would like to encourage the Director to take a trip to Bodø and talk to the rapporteur there about the issues and about the opportunities to succeed in the move process.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e269	It is true that there have been major changes in Norwegian aviation in recent years. One of the first things that was done after the government change was to remove the passenger charges and the system for increased competition, which gave lower prices, greater traffic and a better flight offer - to the delight of both families and businesses. But this also had a different effect: the Avinor added significantly greater revenues, as it is the traffic that generates revenues. At the same time, we've sevened to give Avinor a triple annual promise from the state in relation to previous times -- all this to get better airports and a safer aviation in Norway. The conversion in Avinor has also been extensive. Norway came very late with her, a change that other Western countries have made several years ago. But it would be totally wrong to say that we have gone very far in this conversion. Several of our neighbouring countries have gone much further in several areas. To take Denmark: The Danish state owns e.g. only select a third party of Kastrup, the rest is the Danish and foreign investors that own. In Norway, we have chosen Avinor to be a state-owned company to own most of the airports. New rules in Sweden from 2004 open so that private operators can operate air traffic control services. There are already established companies to challenge the monopoly. In Norway, we have chosen to hold the air traffic controllers in front of Avinor, because we see Avinor as a total security organization. We want one to see these things in context. An important premise for all of these changes and all of these premises we're about to implement is that security is going to be better. It's safe to fly. Aeroplanes are safer than any other means of transport. It has never been safer to fly -- statistically at least -- cork internationally or nationally than it is today. The strengthening of the Avinor economy has been important in this way. That's what we're about to do. Avinor's bidegeg for the same thing through its conversion process. We politicians can't control in detail. We can demand that the security be on top, but to get this done, we need to have a supervision that will see that it happens. I am very pleased with the broad support that is here today, to the Government's procedure further in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e286	Traffic pilot training, which is currently offered exclusively at private schools in Norway, does not provide formal competence in the public education system. A position in the higher education system has been previously investigated by an expert group and assessed by the National Association of Air carriers and the Air Safety Authority as an appropriate level of education. Proper levels of competence are important in prevention efforts to increase safety in Norwegian aviation. It is necessary to receive traffic pilot training at a higher level of education. All the professional bodies have strongly recommended this - the higher the level of education, the better the safety. Traffic pilots work with high complexity in their subject, both technologically, traffically, organisationally and humanly. Errors are not tolerated, and errors may have fatal consequences. I'm concerned when the government signals that it's pleased that someone is going to put this education at a technical college level, which means that the education is going to be at a lower level than it is today. That means you lower your skills instead of raising it. Through cooperation with Norwegian Aviation College, the University of Tromsø and the Air Safety Authority, a model for traffic pilot training at university level has been developed. This will increase the competence of education. It will carry out and launch research in this field It is important for safety. Traffic pilot training at a Bachelor's level may start up when Stortinget offers funding commitments. SV has proposed funding, but the government has not prioritised this. I want to challenge the National Council for Forestsholm: Is it not important and right to increase the training of traffic pilots to a university and higher education level? Will this not contribute to increasing aviation safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e299	I want a little more flexibility to move state institutions out of Oslo and into the districts. A majority of the population was in favour of moving. It is irritating when a collapse decision is tried out. It is not anyone who has decided that a state institution should be moved, but it is the Stortinget. So the decision to raise the money will be overestimated by the bureaucracy. How can we live with such a situation? They should pull the claws and stop trying out a decision that is finally taken. It is a demeaning attitude towards people in Bodø and the community who have applied for these jobs, when they say that there are not enough applicants and that they are not qualified for the jobs. It's unheard to say something like that. I am pleased that the Council of State has confirmed that the removal decision will be implemented. It should be unnecessary to start an interpellation and discuss this again, as we do today. It's gone in the flax and hello. Neglecting people in the northern regions in the way that this is done is unheard of. I would also like to say that the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e310	The President has some doubts as to what the geographical location of this inter-pelling debate implies, but assumes that it is within the limits of what is parliamentaryly sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e313	Let me first say that I am glad that almost all speakers - perhaps with a small exception here towards the end - have underlined that security is most important, and that security comes first. Something else I don't think anyone can afford to think. Let me repeat: for us, this is not a debate on whether the decision to move to Bodø was correct or not. We've addressed this because we have a big concern about air safety - competition, the changes in airlines. A lot is happening, including: the conversion in Avinor, which is related to aerodromes, the relationship of trust between the employees and the management - and the major challenges of the Air Safety Authority, those responsible for ensuring that all the others do their job. That's the sum of this that makes many of us in the committee, who are responsible for traffic from the Stortinges side, have had a bad feeling of stomach when it comes to air safety in Norway. Therefore, we had to find a suitable way to get this across and report these concerns to the Council of State, which is responsible for the safety of flights in Norway. Let me say again, when we say that security comes first, that doesn't mean that we want a rematch. That just means that security comes first, and that it's the government's responsibility to implement the decision. We want the Minister of Transport to return to Stortinget as quickly as possible with a credible action plan on how to implement the decision without jeopardising security. We can't go on chords with this. People need to know that it's still safe to fly in Norway. That is the responsibility of the Council of State, and we hope that not many days will pass in February until we get this matter processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e322	It was said here that you had to look at the possibilities and not the problems. I can promise that we would look at those degrees of opportunity, but we also have to look at the realities. And what it's all about here is actually being able to maneuver so that we have a supervision that ensures the safety of Norwegian aviation in a proper manner at all times, and that we at the same time get a successful transfer of supervision to Bodø. I'm not hiding that we see that this is demanding-- so we have to be honest. But I think this is what we're going to do. Then we have to have the space for action we need to ensure that we have effective supervision of Norwegian aviation. In other words, it's about looking at the possibilities and realities along the way. And I'm very happy that more people have so strongly stressed that this is what this is all about. With regard to the question of whether this will be at the expense of security, it is still the case - and we must not forget this - that it is the actors in the sector, airlines and airports who are responsible for security within their territory. But we need someone to see them in the cards. In terms of how light or how demanding this should be, it is about seeing realities in the eyes. It has always been difficult to find the special skills you've been looking for, for supervision. Now, what's happening is that we're looking for a lot of people at once. That's what's demanding now. I know that Bodø is a very all right place to live. That's why I think we'll see that there are more and more people who find out that they will be there, and that there's a place where there's an aeronautical environment that's interesting to work in. In this process, we must keep our eyes open to reality. We should now have come further than we have come. I would also like to stress that the ministry is going to go more into this process than what you do in corresponding moving processes, because we see more need for security that we have the skills in place along the way. In view of the fact that we're going to have independent supervision, there may be some people who want to question that the ministry is going into this so badly. But that's what we choose to do for the sake of ensuring that we have the skills in place in the process of moving.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e335	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e350	The starting point for this interpellation is the description of the situation in Vardø, in particular, and in Coastal Finland in general, as it appeared in the national media late in 2004 and which became a matter of balancing the 2004 State budget, which ended with an additional 75 million. kr to the coastal communities of Finnmark in December 2004. In my view, the description of Vardø and the coastal communities that emerged in the media has two conflicting sides. On the one hand, it caused, in part, very negatively charged the mention of the Vardø community to the city on the national media map, and a debate was held on the measures to be taken to slow down, and on the other hand, the negative developments that Vardø and other coastal communities have experienced over a long period of time. On the other hand, the recordings made in the media can create the impression of a community that is not life-created. A natural question is, if there is such a bad situation in Coastal Finland, could it be right to take action to prevent the irreversible, namely the gradual decline of settlement, and the gradual destruction of society? The last issue I'm going to focus on in this interpellation. Vardy, in my view, is a city that should have very good assumptions to evolve into a viable society, if some basic assumptions come into place. Vardø municipality had per. On 1 January 2004, almost 2400 inhabitants, with an area of 585 km2. With Vardøhu's fortification, the city is the northernmost fortress town in the world. The first fixation was already made in 1307 by Håkon 5 Magnusson, so that in two years there will be a 700th anniversary of the attachment in Vardø. Vardø is the only city in Western Europe in the Arctic climate zone, Norway's easternmost city, Finnmark's oldest fishing weather and the location in the country where the most extensive witch processes took place in the 1600s. The climate is terrible. As an example, in 1947 5,000-6 000 trees were planted in the municipality of Vardø: spruce, arrow and bush pine. The only thing left today is some tree bushes, and they're about as large as when they were planted in 1947. In addition, there is one eggs at Vardøhu's fastening that have been managed by wrapping it in the winter. What you might think is a disadvantage, is in many ways an advantage in tourism, because this makes Vardø so special that tourists who come there have not seen similar anywhere else. This also applies to the shoreline and to the Finnmark coast. The term "Ultima Thule" is used about the place, the end of the world. As they discover that we are human beings, we often seek the extremes of the world, whether it should be in space, all the way to Mars and the Milky Way, or, for that matter, to the extreme outpost in the Barents Sea. In a situation where both magnification and government have recognised the need for action, it is important to point out the possibilities rather than to go wild in possible constraints. I would like to highlight one example in particular: in Norway, in the 1600s, the witch processes were the most extensive in Vardø. 88 women were burned on the fire in Vardø, in addition to that four dead in captivity. These are the most comprehensive processes across Europe, in relation to the population. There are accurate records of every woman who lost her life, and each story can still be reconstructed. There is talk in Vardø about the creation of a witch museum to present this macabre part of the city's history, and about a visualisation through the model and possible memorial at the place where the processes took place. I can mention as one example that Salem in Massachusetts in 1692 had processes that led to six women being burned on the stake as witches. In Salem, which has 40,000 inhabitants, this is perhaps the most important route of activity in tourism. There are tourists from all over the world. You had an event last year in Vardø -- you've really had it every year -- that was presented in China Daily over four pages, as well as that there were headlines in newspapers both in Qatar, Germany and the United Kingdom, just for mentioning someone. The potential both in Vardø and along the rest of the Finnish coast in terms of tourism is enormous. Based on the figures given to me, it is only through the call of the Hurtigruten approx. 50 000 tourists a year ashore in Vardø. They do that today without actually being organized for tourism. You can visit Vardøhu’s fastening, but there is a lack of infrastructure that allows tourists to put money back in the city. In 1935 Vardø was a very large and important community, with 3,600 inhabitants, who exported large quantities of ice-cream and fishery products, and had a significant trade with the Murman coast and Arkhangelsk. In storms and stillness, the boats went out through the molo to put the yarn, and they took in large catches of fish. Exports were made to Hamburg in Germany and to Petsamo in Finland. And the barrels of salt fish were exported to the whole of Europe, the Soviet Union and other parts of the world. There were 100 000 fishermen in Norway at that time. It is interesting to note that the Dagbladet in a small note yesterday, on 12 January, describes that last year the Norwegian fishing crew was reduced by 1,407 fishermen, and that the figure is now down in 15,797 fishermen. This, of course, does not only affect the Vardø community, but all coastal communities in Finnmark and fisheries-dependent communities along the entire Norwegian coast. Specifically in Vardø, it can be pointed out that it became 12 000 tonnes of fish in 2000. In 2003, the amount of fish was at a very low level of 2 000 tonnes. The Svartnes plant alone was intended to take 10000 tonnes in order to operate. It goes without saying that it is not possible to operate fisheries-dependent activities on land when the fish raw material is not delivered. A society like Vardø may have many other legs to stand on, but fisheries still form the foundation wall of the construction work. It is therefore entirely dependent on predictability in terms of the fish raw material. In preparation for this interpellation I visited Vardø two days ago, on 11 January. At a meeting the municipality arranged during the day, 40 people met. Most people took the word. Much of the debate was about the city's potential for development, with a strong belief in the future. From the Executive Director of the Vardø project group in Vext, Anne Jorunn Kjær, a presentation was made of the prerequisites to reverse developments in Vardø. The most important thing that was emphasised was the need to clarify the Svartnes facility, which binds large resources, and which the municipality is totally dependent on being triggered by the fact that Innovation Norway no longer tries to drive in the funds. It turns out that it's quite unlikely to do it. As an example, it can be mentioned that only the payment of the daily allowance since the company went bankrupt amounts to approx. Eighty million. kr. It is clear that the costs here will continue to run, either in the form of daily allowances or that the municipality will have to use its modest resources if it does not ensure that people are employed, preferably in fisheries-dependent activities. It was pointed out that cultural and travel life would provide enormous opportunities for the municipality if you had the means to invest in it. A main subject work has been carried out by Natalie Stablet Hofsli and Ragna Fagerli, called ‘Darket shall give way to the sun’, which provides a unique basis for Vardø to further develop the municipality. I was completely surprised at how much work Vardø has done on its own, just to see where the road goes. The municipality has set at 3.8 million. kr for urban renewal measures until 2006. During the visit to Vardø, I was at the Office for Victim Compensation, where 14 employees are currently employed. We have had a discussion about the transfer of Air Traffic Control, but what has happened in Vardø regarding the Office for the Compensation of Victims is an example of a very useful and successful relocation, where lawyers have been recruited from all over the country. I think I've talked to them all, and what you hear is dialects spread from far south in Norway to the far north -- most of the states. The day you get enough employees in that office, I think all the counties will be represented. They had prescribed that it should be treated 1,900 cases on an annual basis, and they now have to take care of 3,000. There is therefore a need for more labour. But what you also see is that they're sitting on a unique statistical material. You should have added an archivist, a researcher, and you should have added statisticians who can review the material to present it. Today, the State Archives are taking care of it. I also visited the Pay Guarantee Scheme, which has received a department office in Vardø. They have managed to recruit what they were supposed to do by professionals, and they were very ongoing considering that the government now has to decide if the entire office is going to get there, not just a department office. What surprises you, both through the people's meeting that was in Varde that day, and through the other impulses, is that provided some things are arranged, there is great faith in the future in Varde. There are opportunities for growth if, as politicians, we have the will to create the necessary prerequisites and reverse the negative developments that both Vardø and other communities in Finnmark have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e391	I agree with Mr Ballo that it is important to have a positive view, and that there is a danger in debates that can contribute to the negative image of the Vardø community or other vulnerable coastal communities in Finnmark. I am also pleased that many positive processes are taking place, including: looking for alternative development pathways in Vardø and other municipalities. As I said in my reply to the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen in the Questionnaire on 24 November 2004, the government has a great deal of understanding that people in Vardø are experiencing the great unemployment as very difficult. I share the view that Vardø, and also other municipalities in Finnmark, are in a very difficult situation. In particular, in view of the situation in Vardø and in some other municipalities, I wrote in a letter to the County Council on 3 December 2004 that I was prepared to discuss concrete measures that could improve the situation in terms of creating new jobs in Vardø and, where appropriate, in other communities in a similar situation. In its reply letter to me on 7 December 2004, the County Council presented a number of proposals for action both in the short and long term. I believe that this letter provides the basis for the further follow-up and dialogue that the Ministry will have with the county council and other actors that can contribute to positive development. I therefore see it as very important that we get good processes to come up with proposals on the use of the 75 million. kr such as Stortinget, in connection with the re-salating of the 2004 State Budget, allocated to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for actions in Vardø and other local communities in Finnmark which are in a similar situation. The Government and the Ministry of Local Affairs have followed developments in Vardø and other municipalities in Finnmark closely over several years. Among other things, Vardø was given status as a conversion municipality in 2001, and already at that time the need for funds for additional measures in the municipality was noted. In line with the intentions of the responsibilities reform, Finnmark County took over responsibility for the conversion work and the distribution of means of conversion in the context of the reform. Conversion work will continue until 2006. A possible continuation of the conversion period is primarily the municipality of Finnmark County that has to decide, in dialogue with the municipality. In addition to migration status, the Government has ensured that several state agencies have located new jobs to Vardø in recent years. Finnmark County will, as a rule in the light of the responsibilities reform, have a framework for regional development purposes from the Ministry in 2005. The provisional framework communicated to the county municipality for 2005 is 111 million. kr. And this year, as last year, part of this pot is assigned to the discretion -- that is, with a larger amount of 20 million. kr - in the light of the migration objectives and challenges in the county. So the government already has - before it was granted 75 million. kr - be concerned that there are migration challenges, especially in Coastal Finland, but also in some inland municipalities, which mean that Finnmark needs a discretionary supplement in terms of the funds allocated to them. The final amount for all county municipalities will be clear in a short time. The county council, in cooperation with the regional partnership, shall give priority to the use of the ordinary regional development funds in the county. This also applies to the use of developmental funds in relation to Vardø. It is therefore true that, through the reform of responsibility, we have also given the county council the choice between the priority given to conversion work and how much of these funds will be transferred to the municipalities with the greatest challenges. The Ministry has started work on the application of the 75 million. kr, which we have been granted exceptionally in the new era of the State budget for 2004. We are concerned that this provides short-term help related to the high unemployment rate and the difficult situation of many people, and not least that it provides a long-term basis for creating alternative solutions. We therefore want to cooperate widely with local, regional and state authorities as well as with the instrumentation. Political leadership in the department has thus invited the county to a meeting in Vadsø on 14 January. So there's going to be a meeting about these conditions tomorrow to start a dialogue with the county council and discover some of the areas in which it might be relevant to pursue. The county council has also committed itself to work directly towards the municipalities, and it is important for us that the county council takes the initiative for new measures that can improve the situation permanently and that they should have a local anchoring. I have no faith that anyone from outside is going to solve the situation in many of these municipalities. Some of the initiative, commitment and ownership must also come from local level. In addition, it is important that other forces also contribute. I have therefore stressed that, among other things. Aetate, Innovation Norway, SIVA and regional state budget at the county level contribute where relevant and natural. There are several departments that take responsibility and cooperate on these issues, and political leadership in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs participates in that meeting in Finnmark. The county is actively working on proposals for the use of funds, and there has been a meeting between the county and the coastal municipalities. I expect that the situation of Vardø Municipality will also be addressed by the County Council. After the meeting in Vadsø, it is planned to travel on to Vardø to get a separate meeting with the municipality, local Aetat and Vardø in Växt. Vardø i Vekt has already started work, among others. to organise a large meeting to bring about creativity and new solutions. I have expectations that these meetings will give us an insight into the transformation work that has been carried out so far, and that the focus is on what opportunities exist for the further constructive effort. I think many of the examples of how to actively use history, to which the representative, Mr Ballo, referred, are seen as positive and constructive innovations, which must of course be part of the assessment in the future. For the time being, it is premature to say exactly what device the funds are to have and how they can best be distributed among measures. I believe that it is very important in a short time to develop immediate measures in close cooperation with the municipality and the labour market seat. This is because the focus we had on Vardø before Christmas was on the hopeless situation that many individuals experienced and felt they were in. It is therefore essential to do something concrete in relation to the feeling of hopelessness among individuals. However, the main part of the work will be to identify measures and areas of action that provide sustainable and profitable employment based on the use of diversity and diversity. But it is important that part of that effort must also be about activating the people who already live in Vardø, and not in a way just replacing them with new people. The main contribution of the government to improving the situation in Finnmark is to improve the overall framework conditions. I want to underline it. These are the general framework conditions which, among other things: decide whether the fishing industry will go well in the years ahead. This is very important for coastal areas with an export-dependent business. Lower interest rates and a reasonable dollar rate provide a better starting point for the fishing industry now than before. It is essential to achieve the necessary conversion and international market adaptation for this industry that the framework conditions are also good. Even after the last few years of severe dehulling, the fishing industry is still characterised by high overcapacity. Such overcapacity is a significant handicap to the development of a profitable industry. I believe it is very important that the industry itself should come into a position where it is able to exploit a substantial part of its production capacity, so that competitiveness, profitability, quality and value creation are strengthened and more stable. In particular, this must be seen in relation to the fact that significant funds have already been allocated between 1997 and 2003. Figures from Innovation Norway indicate that of a total of SEK 1.57 billion, which was granted by the then SND in the area, a total of 70 pst. invested in fishing, fishing, fish farming and the fishing industry. Much of the money is lost. In 2004, the SND loss fund was also provided with inputs to offset these losses. I clearly see the need for more streamlined raw material access, and I know that this is a matter on which the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is concerned, and which he has answered in a letter of 10 January 2005 to the Food Committee of the Stortinge in response to Document No. 8:30 for 2004-2005. There he warns of a broad review of the conditions surrounding the landing of raw materials, which also has an impact on the evolution of the fishing industry. The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs writes in particular: further working on issues relating to long-term supply agreements, and that this is a topic that will be discussed in the EEAA on marine development planned later in spring. In the process we are now in, I see it as particularly important that actors who can contribute to new activity, for example. in the form of pushbuttons and start-ups, heard and seen. In this context, it is also essential how each municipality and county market the instruments and opportunities already provided for economic development. Nowhere in Norway are the instruments as good as in Finnmark. Both Vardø and other municipalities must, of course, actively market the instruments in the action zone in that context. There is therefore no other place in the country where an exemption from the employer’s tax is granted, just to mention one of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e428	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I noticed in particular one thing that the Council of State said, namely that no one from outside can solve Vardø's problems. I agree with the Council of State in many ways. When it comes to it, it's the local people who want to sit with the key to bringing the community forward. However, there are two points to which it must be possible to point out that the local population cannot cope with these problems alone. One example is fishing dependence. A municipality that delivers 12,000 tonnes of fish one year and three years later experiences that only 2 000 tonnes of fish are landed, but that depends on fish, of course cannot produce the fish on land. This is a policy managed by the central authorities. In addition, when you see the Svartnes plant, which was supposed to produce 10,000 tons of fish on an annual basis, it goes without saying that it had to go down and home when you didn't have predictability for raw material access. I understand that this is primarily under the Secretary of State for Fisheries. What they describe in the Vardø community is how Innovation Norway has now for a very long time sought to get the highest price in the marketing of the Svartnes plant. The municipality gives very clear signals that this must now be resolved. Innovation Norway now needs to see that there is a significant loss left, so that the municipality has the opportunity to develop this facility on other premises – and what you are talking about is a type of industrial park. I want to say that there's something impressive about the community in Vardø, with 2,400 people, that's the wealth of ideas you can come up with in relation to creating something else. The municipality has made a site analysis on its own initiative and made professional architects review how Vardø is at good and bad in terms of architecture - some of it is quite unique and from before World War II, as opposed to the rest of Finnmark, which was completely burned down. The type of analysis was to enable other municipalities in Coast-Finnmark to produce, and then to move on and try to link this in chains, among others. in cultural and travel life contexts. One can imagine that from Hurtigruten 50 000 tourists are brought to Vardø, after one has created a series of cultural activities there, that they are brought across land, through Tana, and ends up in Berlevåg, through one of the most unique landscapes you can show them in Europe - and then you have a proud municipality that accepts them and shows them the local culture. But to get there, you have to enable the municipalities to do what Vardø has already done, that is to get professionals to review both the history and the building mass and then show another way. That's what you did in Finnmark just after World War II -- it was about all the places in Finnmark. Perhaps the government, in cooperation with the Finnmark municipalities, would have enabled them to do so again, so that they could see much more clearly where the road goes. I do not doubt that there are many in the communities who would apprehend such an idea desirable. Berlevåg, like Vardø, has now come a long way on exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e439	I agree that Vardø cannot do everything alone, and that is why we have a work on conversion that is going on. Therefore, it is also positive that more money has been allocated, so that you can follow up with a larger set of measures in the situation you are in. At the same time, I would like to stress that I think a little bit of the problem has been that the focus has been very one-sided towards going back and refinancing the areas where one previously had activity in the fishing industry. A fundamental problem is that we have too much capacity compared to the amount of fish landed in total. It is that if all the traditional things we've been doing in the past are to be refinanced or up to go, we're going to quickly get more coastal communities into crisis. Indeed, competition in part of these resources is not between Oslo and the coast of Finnmark, or in and on the Sunnmare and the coast of Finnmark - competition is between different communities in northern Norway, all of which are fishing dependent, and where overcapacity is built. That is why we need to have a capacity in the fishing industry and processing that is adapted to how much fish we are going to land in the future - because we need to have sound long-term management of fisheries resources, and I think that the representative, Mr Ballo, also agrees. Making sure that the framework conditions are good is important in this context. There is no doubt that when Coastal Finland faced major challenges in 2002, there was a consequence of the high level of interest rates, which then exceeded twice the average European level. It was a consequence of a high dollar rate, and it was a consequence that for seven years before, every year, in Norway, we had a competitive deterioration in earnings compared to our trading partners of over 2 pst. - so 14 pst. during that period. It is important to include it, because it is our responsibility to provide for these framework conditions, so that the resource base can be exploited. So it's a national responsibility. It's a responsibility that the Government has actually taken, and that the Government is occupied with. But it's related to some difficult political priorities that I'm not always sure if we're going all the way in when we're discussing other policy areas. Then I would like to say that I am also pleased that new thinking activities, new ideas and creativity have emerged. I think this might be a lot of positive force, for example. a greater degree of tourism investment in several parts of Coastal Finland. Tourism is probably a truly growing part of Finnmark’s activity, and therefore one of the recordings we have so far received could be to build networks through small actors who are not themselves sustainable, being one tool. Among the things that I think are positive, is how we can take advantage of the fact that many actors here are going to be so small that they need networking to see the destinations and overall tourist experiences in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e446	Active work is in progress on industrial development in Vardø, in particular the Vardø resource group in Growth is active in that work. At the same time, the situation along the coast of Finnmark shows the need for a new and comprehensive coastal policy, where we take advantage of our ability to sell first class fresh fish raw material instead of sending frozen fish for processing in China, and where we guarantee fishing rights and fishing supplies to the municipalities of the region. The coastal crisis is a national responsibility. That is why the Workers' Party proposes that 150 million be allocated. kr to an action plan for new employment in Coastal Finland. The most important thing is to secure fish for the communities concerned. In order to obtain new investors, it appears to be a pre-requisite that installations have access to raw material in addition to that coming from the local coastal fleet. Trawl raw material is central to creating even activity over the year. So it's like West Fish-Aarsether and Nordic Sea Holding, who owns or controls almost all the trawls that have universal obligations to East Finland, are out for sale. It is essential that the landing facilities are secured by these beam supplies. This may include, inter alia: by establishing companies to take over the trawls, the purpose of which is precisely to ensure the delivery of the trawls. Central authorities should, in the view of the Workers' Party, take positive action to ensure local connection to the trawls. If other economic operators take over ownership, local community ties need to be strengthened. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs shall approve the change of ownership and may lay down conditions. They should then be subject to approval to clarify the universality obligations of each municipality. It's the Workers' Party's vision. It is also necessary for the Minister of Fisheries to assess the possibility of disposing of some of the national quota for a period of time, in order to strengthen the basis for new operations. It is important to assess the possibilities for setting up non-fisheries-based jobs. SIVA must be open to participate actively through the ownership of buildings. Whereas there must be economic scope for investment grants and development grants of the necessary scale; The working party believes that it is necessary to facilitate the development of decentralised higher training services, including: in relation to the fisheries training environment in Vardø, and considering the development of a publicly funded product development unit there, as the Minister for Fisheries has previously indicated. New state jobs have been created for Vardø. The Labour Party believes it is important to assess how these establishments can be developed. We believe that the Government should consider assigning additional tasks to the established offices and assigning new tasks to Vardø, including adding the entire remuneration guarantee section to Vardø. Through this kind of action, there is hope of making Vardø's slogans a reality: Let the darkness give way to the sun.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e468	I also hear from those who have a great understanding that people in the Vardø community are experiencing the great unemployment as very difficult and alarming for the future. Some other communities in this country, like the Vardø area, may feel the need for specific measures. I have great confidence that the Government, together with regional and local authorities, can identify possible measures that will help to remedy this situation. The key here must be to discuss and prioritise concrete actions that can contribute to a lasting improvement of the situation - measures that can create new jobs, and preferably along a somewhat wider platform than fisheries-related activities alone. The key to a positive development in the Vardø area is to create new activities based on local assumptions, not only in relocating or retrieving activities from others and perhaps also vulnerable communities. Another important point for me is that we see the possibilities and not just all the problems. Poverty descriptions, as we know, rarely contribute to increasing interest in either new start-ups or relocation. I would like to stress that the main contribution that the Government can make is to continue to improve the general framework conditions. This is crucial for coastal areas with their export-dependent business. Lower interest rates and a reasonable price for crowns provide a better starting point for both the fishing industry and other export-oriented activities. I would also like to stress that it is now important to listen to those actors who can contribute to economic activity, both in the form of bud shooting and in the form of start-ups. Then it is an important point for me to stress that it is quite essential how the individual municipality and county market the instruments available, and the possibilities that this area can actually offer. Few areas can offer more opportunities than just this part of the country. Major contributions have already been made to development and conversion work. In addition, the impact of the action zone, which amounts to large amounts, is expected. The municipalities of Finnmark are already among the municipalities which have the highest income level in the country measured per. the population. This implies, of course, the possibility of providing good services to citizens. That means attractiveness. That means opportunities for bet. Vardø is in my eyes really a city with great opportunities, and as both the interpellant and the Council of State were involved, there are more positive features and opportunities in what is now happening. It's a society with a diverse and fascinating history. Now we have to take advantage of the opportunities, both locally and regionally, and not just call out to more countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e483	I just have to join everyone who expresses concern about the developments that we see, not only in the region of Finnmark or Vardø, but also in many other communities. But before you draw any new lines or a new course, I think it's important to look back at what's done over the last few years in relation to what's going to be done. I think we have a lot to learn from what's actually done, especially in the region we're talking about now, and especially in Vardø. I am of the opinion that the big community has been involved in building a number of unarmed societies, which are very fragile. The reason for this is that many of these communities that are built around should have a public contribution in order to exist at all. In fact, like the interpellant, the Council of State and many others, I have a sincere belief that this region and Vardø have great opportunities. But then it's important that we, who are going to deliver, from mass destruction and government, find right angles of attack. I listened to the Council of State, and I agree so far when she says that no one from the outside can solve all the problems facing these communities. It is, after all, all the communities themselves who know as much as possible where the shoe is pressing, and know where to bet. However, I would like to point out to the Council of State that what can be done from the outside, especially from enlargement and government, is indeed the framework conditions. It is clear that if we really believe that this region has opportunities in the future, it is at least important that we agree to change the framework conditions that need to be a cling to the foot of these communities. And that could be a lot of things. It really brings me to what all the parties may have been talking a lot about in recent years, that is to say, this with the right of self-determination, that is, how we - here in the house and in the government - should be able to carry the decision-making processes back locally. I can't see that there's any great willingness to do so, but the hope is actually to do that. It is clear that you would like to discuss - but in three minutes you can't do that - for example. overcapacity in Finnmark. It's very little discussed. Resources are limited. It's actually just 100 pst. So if you're going to have a universal service or a proper supply, it's going to have to go down on other communities. I will also finally just show that it is possible, and then I will point to the Snow White extension. It has produced a result of NOK 2 billion for suppliers, and NOK 1.4 billion for West Finland. Then it's interesting to note that the interpellant's party was against the kind of expansion, which has actually been the biggest contribution to development in Finnmark in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e496	Yes, it is true that SV has been against the Snow White extension. This is because the development of the Barents Sea, as it is today, is a threat to the most important industry along the coast, and particularly in Finnmark, the fishing industry. It is clear that the fishing industry is central to the settlement in Finnmark, and it is well in this area that changes are needed in the general instruments, as was first mentioned here. It is true that there is overcapacity in the fishing industry. It is probably true that it is not possible to open all plants with full activity, but it is fully possible to get more of the fish on land in Finnmark, for example. if you comply with the delivery obligations already in place today. It is also possible to make changes beyond what ensures that value creation and activities related to the closest natural resource that are most important for Finnmark. That's what has to be the starting point. The Council of State indicates that it is the county councils that have now assumed responsibility for the conversion work. Yeah, that's right. But there is a broad consensus that the situation on the Finnmark coast, and also somewhere else, is now such that the state cannot turn its back on and say that this does not concern us, that this is just the county municipality's responsibility. The situation in Finnmark is serious, and the treatment of the 2004 budget's recent ageing showed that it was widely agreed. Then someone thought you might want to go to something more, but we don't have to discuss it now. The point is that neither big business nor government can - to say it this way - sit and look at a very critical situation and say that this is someone else's responsibility. After all, we have an overall responsibility to do something when the situation is difficult. In a part of the country and in a state where unemployment is much higher than in the rest of the country - parts of Coast-Finland experience a stable, very high unemployment rate - it is clear that it is felt and felt very differently than in parts of the country where unemployment is now falling, which is positive. It leads me to some of the things the Council of State said, that she has to make sure that you don't replace the people who are there now with a new population. One of the problems when you get unemployed is that you have to have something to live with. The unemployment benefit period has now been cut from three to two years, and many in Vardø now feel that they are leaving that period and are going to the social office. All the way, you're also being pressured to move, because that's what's called the mobility requirement. It makes sense, but if the Council of State actually believes that there is a great point to bet on the population living there, and does not seek to replace it with a new one, it may be that this legislation is too rigorous in such a situation as this. Vardø experiences today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e510	The most joyful thing about the budget before Christmas was 75 million. NOK which was unanimously granted as first aid to Coast-Finnmark. It's an appropriation that shows good will. The center party wanted to grant it twice and believes that it needs more than that too. I think I heard a lot of positive signals today from the Council of State. The central party looks forward to follow-up by Stortinget and the Government in connection with Document No. 8:30, as Odd Roger Enoksen, Marit Arnstad and Åslaug Haga delivered December 8, with several of our specific suggestions. To this end, all parties are given a good opportunity to contribute to further consensus on how to secure settlement in our northernmost state, where natural resources are so rich, but where centralisation forces and business neutrality policies have hit hardest. Then the Storting should also discuss some basic, general questions: why must there be a major crisis in more communities before the seriousness is discovered here with us at Stortinget? It's only been four years since the last Finnland crisis, when Prime Minister Stoltenberg had his big meeting with the Finnmark action. Another general question is: why does the majority here choose to use large sums to repair when the damage has occurred, instead of pursuing a uniform, preventive value creation policy, which can be much cheaper to stop the relocation? Regional policy appropriations were reduced by DKK 1.7 billion from 2001 to 2002. The allocation of municipal food funds has been zeroed out. There is a close link between such decisions and the situation in Finnmark today. Savings policy creates insecurity and great losses for private and society. In 2001, the SND promised that the continuation of the 2001 allocation would ensure 60 000 new jobs in five years. They did not get their will, and the situation would have been quite different in Finnmark today if they had got it. The possibilities in this area are many and beautiful, if we want. But then we have to be willing to use Norway's capital strength more actively so that Finnmark's rich natural resources can provide new and safer jobs and that the population's competence and housing are used to create new things. Smarter fish processing is a very important area. There's a need for quantum leaps, as Børge Burnde mentioned here a day, for this research. The central party is disappointed that the Presidency rejected Åslaug Hagas' request for a total increase to visit Finnmark and hold a meeting there to discuss the situation as it is. It would have been a different debate, and I think the Storting would have been very good to see these problems at close range and talk directly to those who this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e527	The Finnmark Coast has a problem. Some of the Stortinget have seen this in close proximity, when the municipal committee recently visited eight Finnmark municipalities, which had all had a decline in the population of 25 p.m. or more. Fishing was a year ago. It is difficult to maintain optimism in such a situation, and I am very pleased that the interpellant says that the stores still have faith in the future. But it's urgent to get people to work, and Aetat has a special responsibility to get the measures that are possible, right away. The Christian People's Party believes that Vardø's situation concerns us all. It's positive that the Stortinge lifted 75 million. kr more to Finnmark, and that the government has got to grips with the problem. There are several articles that have been added. I've seen the big empty halls together with the local committee on Svartnes. It is alarming that they are not in use for their purpose, especially when we are still actually exporting frozen fish to China for further processing. I agree with the interpellant that something needs to be used by the plant, and that it is a responsibility that we all have. Vardy has Russia as its closest neighbour and thus a giant market that needs everything. Russia is also pointed out in international economic analyses as one of the BRICK countries, i.e. a country that will experience great growth and development in the next few years, and in which it is advisable for investors to invest. It must be possible, with the infrastructure in Vardø, to think wider than fish and sea. One should not drop fish, for all parts, but extend the horizon, because we must admit that the access to fish's resources is restricted. The Christian People's Party believes that the county municipality is important as a regional development actor, and it is necessary that the county uses regional tools, which are significant in Finnmark, towards the areas that are in a particularly difficult situation. Now, together with other actors, we've been invited to a meeting to contribute to a positive development, and $75 million. So extra kr is set aside for the purpose, and it has to get something good out of it. Other municipalities with major problems would at least have noticed that it was a gift package of dimensions. It must be possible to sell Vardø as it is, i.e. as a region with many possibilities. It is an area with an extreme location and an extreme nature, with a history that can create tourism, with fishing resources and delivery obligations, close to large markets, with more public contributions and better framework conditions than otherwise in Norway. One has migration status, one has Finnish mark tax and the other has its advantages, one has free labour, if not cheap, as well as infrastructure and business premises, as well as reasonable housing. There is probably more positive that can be drawn if one acts a little bit more like Espen Askeladd and uses what exists. But there's a hurry to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e548	The Vardø community is still in crisis. Seventy-five million. kr has been granted for the crisis on the Finnmark coast. It's a new quota year. The fishermen have become active, but the fishing industry is still standing. The Coastal Party will support all good measures that give the Finns the right to have fish resources and exploit them themselves. The fishing quotas in the Barents Sea have been privatised. The quotas, which many years ago belonged to society, now belong to shipping companies and individual fishermen. The big companies have acquired ownership of the Bondevik government. They've got it for free, and they'll fight hard to keep it. The same companies then have to pay for fisheries research, the Directorate of Fisheries, the Institute of Marine Research and more. To pay the bill, they have to sell allowances, and then who buys? Yes, they buy non-resident companies or limited liability companies. Is there a plan behind this in the departments, or is it somewhere else there's a plan? Is there a plan to depopulate Finnmark, at least the Finnmark coast? That's a question I've got from a lot of people. I can only answer, I don't know. But it might look like this. Privatisation and EU adaptations are deliberately or unintentionally causing the local community of Finnmark and Finnmark to be affected by illegal fishing, job losses, and people moving. No one, either here in the hall or in the departments, who has to do with Finnmark's challenges, can deny that the Finnmarks have every reason to feel degraded as inhabitants. They've been teased, they've been bullied, not least by Carl I. Hagen. Finnmark has enormous natural resources. The Finnmarks are on some of the most valuable resources we have in this country. Should we start with the gold on the Finnmarks? Shall we continue with the oil and gas in the Barents Sea? I have not yet mentioned the fish in the Barents Sea, Norway's main fishing resource, fish for billions of dollars. Shouldn't the Finnmarks be all right? Everybody's wondering. Shouldn't the Finns land make it, those who have giant crabs, and who have huge fish resources? The Finnmarks cannot cope with all the time they have now come into a situation where they break the regulations if they fish. They break Norwegian legislation because the fish is given to odel and own for ever larger fishing boat companies. Lucky are those who have got this ounce, who have got this right. But are they so lucky, the smaller fishermen? In recent years there have been 1407 fewer fishermen. Is that nice? The fisherman Torcil Hopmark appeared in the fishing magazine on 20 September 2004 and told him that he had to pay 62 300 kroner each year to fish legally. In addition, he had to pay 400000 kroner to have a large certificate for the boat. What will happen now that fishing resources are privatised and the fishing industry has lost its social responsibility? As long as fishermen and fishermen had an active social responsibility, most politicians were understanding to the fishermen when they had to pay rent, that is. taxes on the fish taken from the sea. When the fishing industry no longer takes social responsibility, we cannot expect society to pay for it. They don't get to pay the bill on their own. The Ministry of Finance is not a nice Christmas event, not even for Norwegian fishermen! Unfortunately, I don't get any more time, but I want to say that the Coastal Party is against Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e569	It sounds reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e572	First, I would like to thank the Solberg Council for both a constructive and insightful description of the situation in Vardø. What was said was good. It shows that the government has taken the situation seriously, and that the government is positive. We agree on a lot, maybe with the exception of the fishing section and the description of the Svartnes. The size went in by 75 million. kr in December. From my point of view, it was an immediate measure to maintain employment in Coastal Finland. It gave coastal communities a little breathing space, but of course it will not solve the problems and challenges in the long term. These are in my opinion, as others have pointed out before me today, in the spheres of tourism, seafood and fisheries - as well as a future oil and gas adventure in the Barents Sea. The tourism industry currently employs more people in Finnmark than the fishing industry does. It shows that you're on your way up. The industry is run by well-qualified people with a high level of knowledge and broad competence in both marketing and operation. It provides security for the future investment. Here it is a great potential. In the case of seafood, the Norwegian Export Council presented the figures for exports in 2004. Exports of seafood have increased by DKK 2 billion in 2004, and Norway exported seafood for DKK 28 billion last year. The increase is largely due to the Japanese, but not least the Russians’ great appetite for seafood. This must be interesting for a region that has Russia as its closest neighbour. Only in Kola lives 1 million people who have significantly increased their purchasing power in the last few years. - I'm burning this with seafood, and here the research has to go, and it has to try to get it done. As has been stressed several times here today, the fishing industry will continue to be the bearer in Coastal Finland in the future. It's important that we get into quota arrangements that don't restrict new recruitment. It is important to arrive at quota schemes that have a local perspective, a local community perspective. It is paradoxical that currently, in several cases, the allowances alone represent more than 50 pst. of the fishing vessel value. It says something about how difficult it is for young people to get into the fishing industry. The Minister of Fisheries has said that we must look westward, we must look to Iceland and learn from the Icelanders. I will challenge both Regeningen and Svein Ludvigsen in particular: Why not look further west, all the way to Alaska? Alaska has a system of coastal community quotas, where coastal communities have got their own quotas for their own fishing. It's an exciting project, which is now being evaluated in Alaska. We should look at that. Finally, I would like to say that we must get a clarification in the grey zone. We need to expand our commitment to the extraction of oil and gas in the Barents Sea. Towards the North we have to tread much harder. I know the Foreign Minister is going to visit Murmansk and this area soon. But we don't have to travel just to see and hear, we also have to have one against north policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e589	I see it as having been a debate in a constructive spirit. I've appreciated a lot of recordings that have been made. More have been concerned with the great potential Finnmark has for tourism, and I fully agree with that. But what is not going to happen in the case of Coastal Finland is that in any case, fisheries will also form the basis for tourism, for cultural action, for other activities - including the creation of public jobs. What people want to see is a viable society. They'll see that the arches are in use, and they'll see the fish come ashore. This was also strongly emphasized when I was in Vardø and for that matter when I visited other coastal communities, such as Berlevåg and Båtsfjord. The same is seen in tourism to North Cape. It's a desire to visit places where you're fishing on the road there. If we fail to ensure that resources are given local access, it will also be very difficult over time to achieve other activities. It is therefore important to have a policy related to fisheries that provides predictability. If you think that the fisheries form the basis for about half of Finnmark's municipalities, it might seem as if you've placed the ground wall one place and the construction works a completely different place. The clarification requested by Vardø in the case of the Svartnes plant is absolutely necessary. There is just one example that there is a poor relationship between being dependent on local supply of raw material and having land-based facilities that are dimensioned for it. I should have liked the Council of State to have given some signals about the Government's view of the release of the Svartnes plant, that they give signals to Innovation Norway, and that this is how other activities are started there. I heard the municipality and Vardø in Growth talk about a series of recordings. It was mentioned, among others: possibility of fishing auctions as one idea. But there might be other things, like an industrial park where you could have people look at this. The municipality is not in an economic situation to be able to pay for the innovation Norway demands for the construction. So here the government has a role to play in moving forward quickly with the Svartnes plant. Finally, I want to challenge the Council of State directly on that. Then there are other things I want the Council of State to say more about, namely state jobs and the continuation of what has been signaled. The sum would be about 50 jobs, and until now, as far as I know, there are almost 25 jobs in place in Vardø. State councils might say something about whether to go further with what has been suggested to the Vardø community in terms of state institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e602	I think there have been many both reflected and constructive contributions to this debate on how difficult and what challenges we are facing. I think we have to take inward that it is a disadvantage to be the richest country in the world. It's that we're also the world's most expensive country to produce in. We have the most difficult competitive conditions in the world, and it takes some changes that are painful when you live with them. It is then extremely important not to believe that simple solutions in a globalized world would prevent transformations from coming. It is important to be aware that the general framework conditions are one of the most important areas of government work with, among other things. to remain competitive on the fishing resources we have. It's not enough that we have the resources. We also need to be able to process them at an internationally competitive price. There is one of the basic Norwegian challenges. It is a particular challenge, because, despite the fact that we have much more favourable tax systems and conditions in Finnmark, the combination of changes, i.e. overcapacity, and difficult framework conditions and a massive cost increase at the end of the 1990s in Norway have helped to ensure that we were no longer internationally competitive on the products. In my opinion, this is our job no. 1 to take care of District Norway. Job No 1 is not to be filled in municipal food funds. After listening to the representative Lund, I have to say that those recipes do not help much in connection with a globalised international economy for export-oriented industries. It is precisely so that the fishing industry is export oriented. It is not an industry aimed at the domestic market. Therefore, it is important that we stick to the fact that our most important job is to do something about the framework conditions. Then it's also important that we have to be aware that we have obligations as a large-scale society for transformations. We've had that commitment all along. That's why we've given more money to two counties in the last two years, and Finnmark has got more than the objective criteria we operate on in terms of the responsibilities reform and dissemination of district measures. It's about Sogn and Fjordane and Finnmark, because these are the two states that we've seen with the greatest responsibility for conversion. So it's an interesting observation for me to see that when we give 20 million. In Finland, due to these specific coastal conversion measures, Finnmark County chooses to use only 9 million. SEK of the millions of the three conversion municipalities. I respect that they do, because they have to know that other measures are better then, but I'm a little surprised that the leading party in Finnmark is so critical to the Government, when they have actually chosen to give less than the extra allocation to Finnmark County to the same municipalities that we are now discussing here. The freedom we have given is also a freedom to take responsibility for their own priorities, and I think that should be taken with them. Let me just say one thing about the Black House, for the time being, we're going to take a look at this, but I can't promise anything right now. So we're starting the meeting tomorrow, and it's clear that we have to use the infrastructure that's there for good, even in areas where we have interests through Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e617	As a result, the interpellation debate in case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-13.ana.ud529e628	There is no record.
