ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e59	It may seem small and immaterial to address a matter of summer vacation location after the unimaginable disaster that has hit Southeast Asia. Nevertheless, our political everyday life must continue, and with the disaster in mind, we are reminded that many of our political affairs are getting small in the face of such tragedies. In the hope of avoiding a debate on formalities, let me start by clarifying: It is the school owners who adopt the school leave. The Training Act has a framework for the number of school weeks during the school year. Within these frameworks, the municipalities and county councils spend the school days beyond the year. The law says there should be 38 weeks of teaching within 45 weeks. There are some issues that affect the ability of municipalities to spend school days. The placement of the examination affects the freedom of municipalities to outsource the school leave. The coordination of clouds provides strong leadership for municipalities. As you know, the examination days are centralized. The school shower is part of the bus companies that decide. In addition, there are strong traditions in Norway to start the summer holiday around 20 June, with school start again in mid-August. Last summer we got a debate in the media if the school holiday should not be shifted. Several summers with the best summer weather in August were obviously one reason. In addition, Denmark has decided to postpone the holiday, and most European countries have a tradition of spending their holidays until July and August. Weather statistics for the last 30 years confirm people's perception that August is a better summer month than June. Although there are no strong and significant results, the figures for the last 30 years show that there are several days in August with temperatures above 10 and 20 degrees - there are no dramatic differences between these two months, but there are differences. Especially in North Norway is August a month as there are several days when the temperature is above 10 and 20 degrees. I also want to stress that there may be pedagogical arguments to shift the summer vacation. The school year is known to be divided into two semesters, and this is a system that I believe should continue. We who know the school from the inside both as students and as teachers know that there can often be problems with the effective use of the school year. Special time at the end of the year is often used poorly. Going further, 17 May was the time for graduation, especially in high school. The 17th May party was also a party because a course of education had come to an end. In recent years, exams have been held after 17 May both in primary and secondary schools. However, the time from 17 May to the end of school is so short that it is difficult to obtain good and engaging arrangements. For example, school starts on 1 September at the end of school on 10 July give rise to a different division of the school year. The first semester can then run until February, the first semester gets better organisation, and a regular education runs until Christmas without all the arrangements that result from the end of a six-month period. In addition, a few job sessions of almost two months will take place after 17 May, which will make it easier to maintain arrangements until school leaves. The examination, in so far as it is to be maintained, may be completed by the end of June. Overall, this will make better use of the school year. It should also be appropriate to discuss an extension of the school year in such a conversion. Could it be appropriate to extend the school year from 38 to 39 weeks in order to receive more effective training? Then one can argue that a better use of the school year can be achieved without shifting the time of the summer vacation. Of course that's possible. But we all know that it is easier to achieve content changes if at the same time make changes in the framework of schools. At a time when education, school and knowledge are losing status and position, action is needed that can make it possible to obtain education as a priority among young people. In the adult world, the heroes are the ones who make the most money. Greed and materialism are what we set as a model for young people. Then it will help little if we at the same time moralize over the young people's lack of willingness to choose a real science or that they deprioritize school and education. The shifting of summer holidays may also be used to agree on a common school start in the autumn. In some countries, there is such a common school start. Some of these countries have managed to make schooling a party day, Day of Knowledge, the day of knowledge. It may be too optimistic, but what if we made the last Saturday of August a common school start day, a common party day? I think there are many good reasons to consider a shift of the summer vacation. In addition to the climatic, what goes on at temperature, what has to do with the number of summer days, there are also pedagogical reasons to consider such a change. My concern is therefore to raise the debate, but also to ask the Council of State to take initiatives towards municipalities and county councils, perhaps through the KS, to see if it can be relevant, and whether we should try out a summer holiday scheme in the last part of July and in August and at the same time try to get to a common school start-up day, a common party day when the schools start. It could be a cross of thought for us who belong to the 68 generation, who were involved in tearing down party days, and perhaps also an important reminder that we're trying to bring forward some new party days. A common school start can be such a party day that we can get to. If we can't make a common arrangement for the whole country, maybe we could start with North Norway. Weather statistics clearly show that the largest results for August are in North Norway. If we look at the tables from the Meteorological Institute for the past 30 years, it's especially in North Norway that there's better weather in August than in June. I'm excited to hear the recordings and the debate, whether this is something we should try to record, without saying that we're controlling this from here. This should perhaps still be a responsibility for the school owners. But making a party day at school should be a task for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e91	The President records with interest that even the most infamous generations can come to the realization of truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e94	It appears, as has been said, from the Education Act that the school owners, i.e. the municipalities are essentially free to decide when the holiday is to be completed and how long it is to be. However, there are some limitations to this freedom, both given in the law on the one hand and of a more practical nature. The limitations of the law are reflected in the fact that, according to the Education Act, the school year must cover at least 38 school weeks, both in primary and secondary schools, within a framework of 45 consecutive weeks of the school year. This shows that Norwegian school students through the law are actually guaranteed at least seven weeks of vacation between school years, or seven weeks of summer vacation in practice. In practice, the school owners must also take into account the centrally defined timing of the final examination and admission to higher education. It will probably also, as the interpellant has been, be of practical importance that the county council organises the school shower, both for primary and secondary schools. Therefore, practical and economic considerations may indicate that all municipalities within a county have similar school leavings. Similarly, for example: consideration of families with children in different schools, at different ages, counting on when school routes are to be established. Most higher education institutions start their studies in mid-August. Higher education intakes take place mainly on the basis of completed education and results of higher education. The final deadline for submitting documentation to the Coordinated Recording is 1 July, and it is then assumed that training and practice carried out in the spring are presented. In practice, this will be a matter of major — and perhaps greatest — importance for the closure of the summer holiday in secondary education and, indirectly, in primary school. As far as I can interpret the interpellant, there are three questions being asked. Firstly, should the summer holiday, or school holidays in general, be determined locally by the school owner or central? I think it is positive that the school owners decide for themselves when to wind up the holiday and how long it should be. Norway is a long-distance country and climatic conditions are very different. I can mention that in the four northern states and at Svalbard the current school year started about a week later than in the other counties. This shows that the freedom contained in the law also works in practice. And I think this freedom is in line with what is quite a stir, namely local freedom of action as far as possible. The second issue raised, directly or indirectly, is about our school holiday - and probably should be central to it - is to be coordinated with the school holiday in Europe elsewhere. I don't see any decisive arguments for that. There are varying practices in Europe both for the length and for the period of summer holidays in schools and for the extent to which the holiday has been fixed centrally or locally. Within the Nordic region, the school year starts a little earlier than in the countries further south of Europe, but there are also differences in the Nordic countries. Denmark, which probably triggered this debate last summer, has a shorter summer holiday than Norway has had until now. They have started the school year earlier and have more central provisions for this. But I don't think it can be a goal in itself to pursue holiday settlements at the same time as the largest possible European countries. The third question that can be raised is whether more freedom should be given locally than today to determine the time of the holiday settlement and how long the holiday should be. There is a question that can be raised, and if the answer to that is yes, it may have implications for the law and/or the practice of a number of other matters outside primary and secondary school. So far, I have not registered any wishes from school owners, from the KS or anyone else about a change in today's system and then had no reason to bring this up. But if more school owners or others express a desire to have a further framework for the school's summer vacation closure, I'm of course willing to discuss it. In that case, it's hardly enough just to discuss it with each other. Then we will probably also have to discuss it with the higher education institutions, because I believe that the practical limitation to the seventh and last lies there. Whether the UH sector will be prepared to change, I don't know, but I don't have very much faith in it in the short term, in the light of the quality reform that has just been introduced. So the interpellant raised a couple of other questions during his post, among other things. if it was desirable to extend the school year. It should have no connection in particular with the summer holiday and when it is phased out. That could be discussed. Then, of course, you also have to discuss the consequences of that, depending on whether you want to divide the number of hours you have over the weeks it is going to be, or you want to spend more hours. But as a parent and a citizen, I would say immediately that I believe that the week you would have taken, for most people would be the harvest holiday, or the old potato holiday, that comes right after the summer vacation, and that is very difficult to fit into the family and adult working life. So if you asked the citizens which week to take, I think that might be the answer. I don't have any scientific evidence to say this, but that was my immediate reaction. To make school start to a party day I'm not against, and I think it also species themselves as a party day for very many, especially for the youngest students. It is true that even if you don't start on the same day in the whole country, you usually start at the same time as the schools in your municipality, perhaps in all the municipalities nearby, and perhaps at the same time with quite a number of counties in the country, so it can be very well done at a party day, even if it isn't centrally exactly what day it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e113	This is not the most important educational policy issue we are discussing. But it was a little surprising that the Council of State just gave a description of today's reality, that the world is terribly good, and that it should still be good. As we organize it now, it's good, it's good, it's really -- so don't need to look at this and make some adjustments. Other countries have done it. Denmark has done so, assessed it. They have found that there is a basis for such a displacement. So it was a little surprising that she did not go any further into and discuss it. She also took on the basis of higher education. With higher education starting in mid-August, shifting your vacation would create problems. I imagine that if we agree that the summer holiday for the education sector - then I'm talking about both primary, secondary and higher education - will be from mid-July and out of August, this also includes higher education; they will adapt. As far as the harvest holiday is concerned, I agree, but in this arrangement, if we have a school start a little later, it is not relevant to enter a week's vacation in the autumn. Then you get a good job growth until Christmas, with the first semester, for example, going until 1 February, and a new semester from 1 February to approx. July 10th. I am sure that with this way of organising the year of work you will get better use and a much more efficient year of work. I am absolutely convinced of that. But I see that there are strong counterpowers. We have traditions linked up to 17 May, etc. Which means there are many counterpowers against getting this done. I might also have expected a slightly more thorough treatment as to whether there is a need to extend the school year. I mention this with the harvest holiday, that we can take a week there. I think it might be relevant, too. It should be discussed properly in 38 weeks is what we should have, whether we should not expand by, for example, one week. So I'm a little surprised that there wasn't a little bit more going into it than just describing that today's arrangement is good. I agree with the Council of State that what the rest of Europe is doing is not important to us - dear friends - but that may be something we take into consideration. So you could say that making school start to a party day is a little optimistic. But some of us who have been in Russia and experienced school start-ups there, can tell that it's a wonderful experience. Then it's a party day. I don't think we're going to get it in Norway, but it's terrible fun to have such a party day. It's also part of raising education by other means. We can sit and moralize, as I said, over the youth who doesn't do what we want. But then we also have to take some steps to show that education, research and all of this are important priorities and something that society raises high, and that is all, the most important of what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e128	I didn't say in my post that everything is good like that just to defend the status quo. What I said is that I have not registered anyone other than Rolf Rekovam who has raised the question. This may be a small sign that today's system works reasonably well. But I also said that if someone takes it up, if it's a popular requirement, I'm definitely going to sit down and discuss it. But I have not registered anyone else who has taken it up. I don't think it's relevant to refer to Denmark. Firstly, there are other types of provisions. It has been defined more centrally. The whole thing had to have an agreement to move the holiday. Secondly, they have shorter summer holidays. As far as I recall, Danish children had six weeks, against Norway the usual, eight weeks, last summer vacation. I could see for myself in Denmark last summer that beaches and such were emptied for Danes around 2 August, if I do not remember correctly, because the school started again. It was two or three weeks before you started in Norway - that is, a completely different issue that was accommodated last summer. I bring up this with higher education just because I think that if you sat down and started discussing a centrally determined move of the summer vacation, that question that would in practice have appeared as the most precarious, would be the practice of the academic year in higher education, admission rules, exams, etc. It therefore had to be discussed in practice in the light of higher education and the needs and wishes of higher education institutions. I don't understand that the interpellant is disappointed that I'm not dealing more thoroughly with the issue of an extension of the school year, because I can't see that that's the question that has been raised. The question that has been raised is the determination of the summer holiday. So here's to this party day. I have, as I said, been present at many school starters and starters both in primary, secondary and higher education, and to me it looks like it's a party day. Schools are trying to make it a party day. And that's what it should still be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e141	A few brief comments from the Labour Party, although it does not necessarily add anything new to the debate with regard to the dialogue between the Council of State and the representative of Rikvam. We see several arguments for a shift beyond the fall, including: Meteorological institute calculations, which show that not only in the last 30 years, but in the last 46 years, I've registered, August is the hottest. I think it may also lead to a better use of the school year, and I think it may be a sensible adaptation to the EU. So we don't mind taking the initiative for discussion. Although the enquiry has not been made on the table to the Council of State, it was at least based on the media releases related to the discussion in connection with last year's summer vacation, both from teacher organisations and student organisations, that they were positive, but they had not really made it any more concrete. Then I would like to stress that it is the school owners who today have the freedom to decide the school holiday, within other legislation. We don't want to deprive them of that freedom, both because this can be local variations, and because local freedom is important in itself. I see that several counties have used the opportunity to shift the holiday for one week. I also see that there has been a discussion in Oslo, where it indicates that a majority is likely to end up with some result that is slightly different from today. But Rikham's argument is almost in the direction of a national requirement. I believe, of course, that someone should have a party at good weather, but one should not set any national standard here that should apply to everyone. Nor are we prepared to take any position related to the invitation here to have any opinion about an extension of the school year. We might get back to that. But, as I said, it can be useful with a discussion and useful with coordination, both geographically and in relation to levels of education. So I just want to end by stressing that someone is talking here about a discussion with school owners and not least parents, because holiday settlements are often and largely family time - but not just parents, of course also the student organisations and teacher organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e152	Primary and secondary education shall cover at least 38 weeks, and it is the municipalities and counties which adopt the school leave. The interpellant refers to the Training Act §§ 2-2 and 3-2. It is clear from § 2-2 that «the municipality gives regulations on school and holiday days in the school year for the students», similar to § 3-2 regarding secondary school. Thus, the individual municipality or county may theoretically spend the school days and holidays whenever desired. I think there are good reasons why the summer vacation is being put where it is now. The need for coordination between neighbouring municipalities and between primary and secondary schools can be a major reason. Both in relation to families with pupils at different schools and in relation to school kissing, it is practical and economical to add holidays to the same period of time. But there are also historical reasons. With a place of holiday for students as it has now become, it will span over a period that will contain a good deal of good Norwegian summer weather. The discussion about the location of the holiday is not new. We get that almost every year. We have a heating period at the beginning of June -- which we often have, at least on my edge of the country -- the discussion goes on whether the holiday should have started earlier. If there is a heating period when the schools are going to start again, the discussion comes if the holiday should not start later. A conclusion as to when to start holiday on the basis of one summer or some summers, perhaps even on the basis of 30 summers, will almost 100 pst. probably failed. The only thing we know about the weather is that the next summer is never the same as the one that has been, not the weather. I don't think the Council of State can either start or stop a discussion about the location of the summer vacation. That discussion will come regardless of the will or invitation of the Council of State. As surely as the heat comes too early or too late in the summer, the discussion will come. And so it's that the summer vacation at each school is determined locally and not centrally, either in the department or in the big business. This is also not an area suitable for national standards or for centralized regulations. The provisions of the Training Act are wise at this point: the municipality or county provides for school and holiday regulations. Even with SV's zeal according to national standards fresh in memory, I should not wonder if there are central regulations SV want. I think the school vacation is reasonably located in our country based on our climatic conditions. Most summers have periods of good, warm summer weather. And even though many schoolchildren would want the school vacation to last until the end of August or early September, there are probably few who would want to go to school for a while out in July. I don't think that makes sense either, from the school's point of view, for pedagogical reasons and motivations. The discussion will undoubtedly go on every summer, but a significant change in established practice should probably be based on some more experience than some summer discussions on the theme of the best cucumber time in the newspapers. In any case, local school authorities decide. As regards the extension of the school year, one should be able to return to it at a later date and within another framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e167	Let me first say that on behalf of the Progress Party, I have raised on several occasions questions related to time use, including vacation use, in the school. Let me also stress that, in the view of the Progress Party, there may be many and good reasons to invite the school owners to a discussion on holiday shifts, and we hope that it will be done. But, of course, emphasis must be placed on school considerations: that changes will provide better schooling for students, that changes contribute to a good learning environment and thus also contribute to good learning outcomes. However, when it is invited to such a discussion on the location of the holiday, it should also be invited, in the view of the Progress Party, to a discussion on the length of the school year and the content of the school year in relation to short common holidays such as winter and autumn holidays and other holidays, of which there is a flora, planning days not least. The party believes that the joint harvest holiday scheme, which the school now has a relatively short period after the school year's start, is not good for school work, which has just started well, nor is it necessary. In our view, the common harvest holiday can be eliminated. Furthermore, it is not certain that such common short-term breaks need a full week's duration and that such breaks should be added to a fully operational and efficient week of work. Instead, they may be linked to national holidays. And we have to be able to ask the question: Is it necessary for a full week's common winter holiday? A discussion on holiday must also include a discussion on flexible holidays outside the main holiday, i.e. the summer holiday, which, in the opinion of the Progress Party, should be not only a test scheme but a fixed scheme, left to the individual school. The Progress Party suggests that parents and supervisors should be heard - preferably through the Progress Party model with operational controllers with parents having a majority. A discussion about the shift from school summer vacations should therefore not just be a discussion between authorities and school owners. It should primarily be a discussion between school authorities and parents and supervisors, where the school owners adapt to the legislative and regulatory changes resulting from such discussion. At the end of September 2002, we had a debate on the autumn holiday. Otto Kay Pettersen, then Vice-Chairman of the Parental Committee for Primary School, did not reject proposals for the removal of the fall holiday, saying: ‘I prefer to look at the school year as a whole. Today’s school holiday arrangements may have expired.» And on the other hand, ‘Better adaptation of school holidays to parental holidays may be necessary.’ I think he's right about that. Finally, in the international context, we will find many other countries where school students have longer summer holidays than schoolchildren in Norway. The length of the summer holiday is also discussed with us. On behalf of the Progress Party, let me stress that we do not see it desirable with extended summer holidays, but on the contrary, we can imagine extending the school year somewhat. Then it's interesting that SV also goes in for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e203	The President will assume that if a holiday has expired, that means it is too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e206	The interpellant indicates that we got a debate in the media last summer about the holiday. I guess that's not the only time we've had a debate on vacations. But every time you land on the same thing, the school holiday should start in June. Like the Council of State, I have not noticed that the parties involved have no wish for any special replacement. When we got the discussion about the location of the summer vacation, it was in the middle of the weather. It was not a question of having a better and continuous job-seeker after 17 May but of giving students freedom when the chance of sunshine and heat is greatest, and of adapting the Norwegian holiday calendar to the European one. I speak from experience when I say that I do not see pedagogical reasons for shifting my vacation. It is difficult enough to motivate students to work in June. It is not 17 May that represents a distinction in school, but when it is noticed that the weather gets warmer and the days brighter, the students naturally want vacation. And it's just about June 21 that the days are longer, which is especially noticeable here in the high north. The Christian People's Party sees it as a more important point that the spring holiday and the harvest holiday should be nearly the same long, with a natural break in the middle. We have that today, with the summer holiday from mid-June. Then the Christmas holiday comes naturally at the end of December, for it is also natural to have a break after the first semester. The objection to today's system is that the harvester can work a little short and the spring holiday a little long. So shifting the summer holiday beyond the year will further increase that trend. We have heard that municipalities and county councils today have the opportunity to choose when students and teachers are going to have vacations. This flexibility can be used, and some do so to adapt their holidays to local needs. However, the time of the holiday depends on a regional interconnection in the case of examinations. This is particularly true in relation to secondary schools, in order to take account of the fact that examinations and censorship have to be carried out at given time limits in determining the further course of higher education admission. So moving the vacation in high school is probably only possible if it happens in the whole country at the same time. I understand that most people are interested in having a vacation when it's good weather, and many people are said to have to go back to the classroom when it's hot outside. But if the next summer were to get hot in June and colder in August, which is possible, I wouldn't be surprised if we had a debate about starting the summer holiday earlier this year. The point of coordinating holiday with other countries in Europe can also be used in the opposite way? Because it's an advantage that not everyone is out and traveling at the same time, but that you spread the travels at different times. As a member of the 68 generation, I can accept the wish for a common school start-up day, and that it is still a party day, but for me it can be in the middle of August.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e222	This debate is based on what happened this summer, when the papers were full of the misery of summer weather, and it should therefore be considered moving away. I remember sitting in the West and reading VG, where it was promised that in three days the good was going to be, it said that in three more days the good was going to be. We were in the West in good standing. So it's a little interesting that it's kind of been to the East that we're going to have the debate on whether or not we're going to move the summer vacation. I very much agree with the answer given by the Council of State to the representative of Rikvam. She asks the question of the summer holiday should be determined centrally or locally and responds to the fact that it should be adapted locally. Should it be coordinated with the rest of Europe? No, the Minister of Education doesn't see any reason, and neither does the representative of the Central Party. The question is further whether a desire for greater freedom than today, and she refers to the fact that there are no demands or wishes for greater flexibility. I agree with the Council's reply to the representative. When we talk about vacations, we talk primarily about family time, as the representative Bjørnstad underlined. We have both a harvest holiday and a winter vacation. In fact, on the part of the Centre Party, we want it to be possible to assess, in relation to both the harvest holiday and the winter holiday, whether or not a few days can be taken out. Today, working life is very flexible. People work turns, have days off, etc., and it might be interesting if parents would rather be able to choose to take the students out for a total of ten days, which is a harvest holiday and winter vacation, during the year, in order to be able to adjust the holiday to family life and the rest of the world. So I'm going to encourage the local school owners around to think even more flexibly about the other vacations that the schools have, and maybe adapt them to their parents' desire to take out the students three-four days in a stretch linked to a weekend, so that one could really use the holiday as a family time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e231	The President expects the inter-pellant then to take a stand on the issue of possibly moving the East, as an alternative to moving the holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e234	I record that it was not very bad to discuss a shift of the summer holiday. The most eye-catching thing in this debate was when the representative of the Skjälaa spoke about himself in the third person. Otherwise, I have to say it's not a popular claim. There is no requirement from below that this should happen, that we now have to shift the holiday. But it's been a debate, and it's not just linked to what the weather is like right now. As I have said, I think there are strong arguments to go through the way we organize the school year, and see if it's effective and good. I agree with the representative of Sortevik, I don't think we get a good and effective use of the school year. And by doing a lot of grips, like putting around the two vacations, making displacements, we can get a more efficient use of the school year. Then it is produced as if the municipalities are free, we have local, municipal autonomy. Everyone knows that the municipalities are not free. This is coordination at regional level. Municipalities need to cooperate with other municipalities to find the location of the holiday. It is often the transport companies that manage the location, precisely because they are responsible for coordination. So raising the municipal freedom and all of this seems a little bit special. Whether this occurs at regular intervals, when the sun shines in the summer: there are statistics for the last 30 years, and also for several years. The average temperatures are generally clear. Even though one can sit in Bergen and discover that it's raining in Oslo or where it may be, the statistics say, and we're dealing with that, that there are more warm days in August than it is in June. And it's not the east that's going to make the most of this. It's probably North Norway that will have the biggest benefits of making changes. For the average temperature difference over the last 30 years, August is a significantly warmer month than June is in North Norway. So it shouldn't be an Eastern requirement, because there are the differences at least. It's probably North Norway that's going to make the most of this. But I'm recording that it didn't wake up so much. I also invited to debate the school year's graduation and the organization of the school year in my post, so I felt I was doing something of the representative Sortevik asked for in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e247	The Council of State then has the last word in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e250	I'll be brief - just three things. First of all, the question of the possibility of shifting the summer vacation: let me just conclude that it is possible to shift the summer vacation. If, for example: Southern states or Eastern states, or Oslo, as it was referred to here instead, want to do what you've done in the northernmost states, to shift it with a week, you'll start closer to 1 July and start again at school closer to 1 September. So that's possible. Then the representative says that they are not quite free. In practice, they also need to coordinate a little. And I agree. I also think parents and families would want them to coordinate. Many families have children in different schools, at different ages. I think very few demand very different vacations for their children. Then there will be no family holiday. That was point one. Secondly, I agree with those who have said - among other things. The representative Sortevik - that you should discuss vacations, you might want to look at the holiday settlement in general. I also agree with the representative of the Skjälaa that what might be sought by parents, if we asked them, is a little bit more flexibility in terms of the harvest holiday and winter vacation, which clearly appears, I think, as the most difficult thing to do for the families, for the adults and for the parents who are at work. I think it was interesting what the representative of the Skjärlaa mentioned, namely an opportunity for flexibility in terms of the ten days of the harvest holiday and winter holidays normally included. We know today that many parents are looking for extra time off for their children. Some only take the children out of school without applying for leave or giving a message. Many schools have started flexible holiday management especially in the case of the harvest holiday. The reports I have seen indicate that it works quite well. So here I think it's an area that's more interesting to discuss further. Finally, there has also been a debate here on the organisation of the school year and the length of the school year, based on very different considerations from those raised in the interpellation, learning considerations, etc. I think that is also an interesting debate. But there, I think we would have been more prepared if the interpellation were arranged on it and not on what was now about the summer holiday, with a rather clear direct or indirect reference to just last year's holiday settlement and was then.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e268	This concludes the interpellant debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e281	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to each of the main speakers from each group within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e290	More than 10 years have passed since 28 November 1994 and the last EU voice. The most extreme predictions both on the yes- and the no-side have not turned on, and Norway is still this long, slightly strange and in some eyes strange country out to the great sea. EU cases are still on the agenda. Today, we are going to discuss the proposal by Mr Haga and Mr Valle on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Their wish is to clarify what kind of changes should be made to the Constitution by any EU membership. They believe that, in the light of developments in the EU, it is particularly important to have a thorough review in advance of any EU request, in order to make the debate more orderly. Proposals are being made for the assignment of a commission of independent constitutional lawyers and EU law lawyers to give them sufficient weight. This is a starting point that Christian People's Party shares. We would like to clarify such questions before any EU request. We think it's important to clear up any legal doubts. There are differences of opinion as to what rules the Storting must follow if Norway is to report to the EU. The question is whether we should benefit from Section 93 of the Constitution, which requires a majority of 3/4 of the representatives, or whether we must follow Section 112 and amend the Constitution. In the last ten years, major changes have taken place in the EU. It is clear that we are facing a completely different Union than in 1994. It is therefore necessary to find out whether this means that we need to amend the Norwegian Constitution to join the EU. The Christian People's Party wishes to clarify such issues in good time before a new EU debate. Like the multiples in the committee, I agree that we don't need this commission right now. It is important to point out that the EU is constantly developing. The proposal for an EU constitution is to be published in most EU countries. If one or more countries say no, there is a new situation within the EU again. A new Norwegian application for membership is also not relevant in the near future. It may therefore not be useful and clarifying if the question has to come up again at a later stage, as we can then face a completely different EU. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes it is important to clarify the legal issues before any new debate on the EU. In this way, we can have a debate that is as factual and informative as possible - whether a new EU application should be put on the agenda again. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes an alternative, that an award should be started ‘if a new application for Norwegian EU membership is initiated from the government or from the grubbing-up’. Once any EU membership is up to date again, there will be such a fundamental change in the governance of our country that, in our view, it would be preferable to do so. I have noticed that this proposal does not have multiples either. The Christian People's Party records that they called the 'yes' party, i.e. Right and Work Party, don't want an extension. They will certainly do their own thing, but the Christian People's Party will challenge them if they really have that overview and insight of the legal issues. The Christian People's Party believes that such a distribution should be initiated if a new application for Norwegian EU membership is initiated from the government or from the big business. The Progress Party has previously said that they do not want to indicate anything about Norwegian membership of the EU. Furthermore, they will not have any information on the continuation between the Union and the Norwegian Constitution. The Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, said earlier, 1 June, in the Evening Post: ‘There is a need for a batch of public information as a starting point.’ And then my question is, Where was the people's information? No one surprises that the yes-party is negative to such an arrangement, which they may fear will give new arguments to the no-page. The resistance of the party to progress does not match the production they have produced as a known non-party. If you don't know, won't you take any damage to your knowledge? I include the proposal to which I referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e321	The representative, Mr. Modulf Augan, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e324	The rapporteur has presented the matter in an excellent way, and I will just make a few brief comments as to why I have come to a completely different conclusion from what he has done. If, in the future, Norway becomes a member of the European Union, it will be after the Norwegian people have given their advice on this in a referendum. Norwegian membership of the European Union will therefore be a consequence of us wanting such membership as people. It's the basic, and it's absolutely crucial. The EU is changing, and it will be the responsibility of the Storting and the political environment to explain the consequences of any membership. In its comments and in its proposals, the minority reiterates the question of whether it would be appropriate to amend the Constitution in accordance with the provisions of Section 112, with an explicit wording that says that Norway can become a member of the EU. It has been and - as far as I can understand - a clear view in the Stortinget, at least from a majority, that the provisions of the Basic Law § 93 should underpin the possible ratification of an agreement between Norway and the EU. So far, this position has not changed. Now, since 1814, the Storting has interpreted and understood the Constitution and made the adjustments required by the social change. This has been a successful arrangement, and which to date has not been particularly objectionable, if we then disregard certain circuits or forces in Stockholm during periods of Union time. The efforts of the Union King, Riksdag and parts of the Swedish government to weaken the Grand Duchy’s right to interpret the Constitution were not successful. It may have always been that the different groups and other stakeholders have involved constitutional lawyers and other forms of expertise in their previous discussions, but the final interpretations and final conclusions are political. It is this hall's understanding and interpretation of the Constitutional Law that is the constitutional state. When the minority now wants a Grand Commission to interpret the relevant provisions of the Basic Law, it is taking a long step towards leaving this scheme. If their opinion is that the Storting should not, cannot or should not have this role in our social order, then it would be logical to start work on the establishment of a Constitutional Court. It therefore appears that the minority and the proposers regard the Constitution as a purely legal document and that the conclusions of the proposed Commission should be appropriate as an overall understanding of the Constitution. I assume, then, that at this one in the Commission, the understanding of the majority is supposed to be the most qualified understanding of the Constitution. So for our part, we're going to go against this idea. I would recommend that the members of the Labour Party Group support the vote and accept both minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e357	I will immediately reject the fact that it is the intention of the minority to deprive Stortinget of the power to interpret the Constitution. But I would like to ask the representative, Mr Engrepretsen: is it the case that the Engrepretsen and the Workers' Party have a full overview of the constitutional consequences of an EU constitution? Is it the case that, as it appears, the EU basic law will have no impact on the Norwegian Constitution? This is what we are seeking help to obtain information about, so that we can get an informed debate, and so that the Storting can take the right decisions in its time. I would also like to ask the representative of the UK if there are no reasons to use § 112, i.e. what changes to the Constitution are needed as a result of an EU Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e364	To the question of whether we have the full overview: I cannot answer for the Storting, of course, but I believe that the group I belong to is trying to keep as up-to-date as possible in relation to developments in Brussels and what may happen. But we want the full overview on the day we're going to make a decision. I am quite convinced that this room will have. It is a different matter to acquire expertise and knowledge in the course of a debate towards a position than to appoint a commission to assess the country’s constitution. I see no reason today to assess § 112 as this hall has been as clear as it has been, in relation to what is needed to ratify any agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e371	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e374	The debate so far has shown in a very simple way the attitude of the various fractions - whether I can use that word - towards the proposal put forward. However, the debate has also clearly shown the reasons why the proposers have had to promote the proposal they have made. The proposers probably already knew when they presented the proposal that the majority of the Grand Duchy would not find such an investigation necessary. Therefore, I believe that we can safely assume that the proposal has been promoted for tactical reasons, so that they can later accuse the majority of people of large numbers of people to try to keep information about the EU hidden. During this period, everyone knows that, unfortunately, there is no majority on the Stortinget to apply for Norwegian EU membership. It is up to the voters through elections to ensure such a sensible composition of the Norwegian Grand Prix that, firstly, there will be a majority in this Chamber to apply for membership, and, secondly, a unanimous increase that respects the outcome of a referendum, even if there would be a scarcely yes in such a referendum. It is therefore widely sought to argue that this proposal is downgraded by the majority of the population because EU citizens have something to hide. It is precisely the Storting, which was also very clear to the representative, and only the Storting, who can make constitutional changes, and who is set to interpret the Constitution. In this work, both the party groups and the large-scale representatives are individually free to seek the help and advice of legal practitioners. But the Storting cannot leave this task to others. No nominated commission of so-called independent legal instructors may review the assessments and powers of the Grand Duchy on questions relating to the Constitution. If one were to follow the practice proposed by the proposers in their submission, it would in many ways mean that the Storting abdicates from such a fundamental task as it involves interpreting the Constitution and adopting amendments to the Constitution. However, if, as the proposers wanted, the question were left to a hand-picked Commission, it would of course have been asked immediately about the EU position of each member of this Commission. Then you would have been equidistant. The only thing that would have been achieved by appointing such a commission as the proposers want was to erase the boundaries between law and politics and to misunderstand the political responsibilities. I can understand that at times the proposers may find it difficult to have good political arguments for their views and through this perhaps try to get some legal arguments, but I think this task, namely to interpret the Constitution, should and should remain the Stortinges alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e389	It is in many contexts that the Group of the Progressive Alliance in a difficult case obtains advice from others, and under normal procedure in our group, it is not uncommon for us to also be contacted by companies, organisations and associations that make their views known. Getting advice and assistance is something all big groups do. In fact, we have also employed a number of consultants in our large group who provide advice and assistance to various large-scale representatives who sit on different committees. The fact that we feel that we need advice is normal. But it is rare that we have found that the way to obtain advice from our group for our own group's proceedings is to propose that the Storting should appoint a selection or a commission to provide the advice that our group might be looking for. I understand that the Socialist Left Party and Mr Ågot Valle would like to have some advice and some legal input into SV's search for a sensible position in the EU case, but why should you bother Stortingen with that? I also understand that the Christian People's Party would like to have help clarifying ambiguities. In the comments of these two lots, the setting on page 2, first column: ‘It is important, in the opinion of these members, to clarify whether it is § 93 or § 112 of the Basic Law to be used in any EU registration, so as to avoid such uncertainty in any new Norwegian membership debate.’ Is there anyone other than the Storting that can solve that problem in case? After all, a commission has no power or decision-making authority -- if the SV and the Christian People's Party here feel some confusion. What you know is that it says that the Storting has the two possibilities. The size may choose which of the two options it wishes to use, if the size by the necessary majority wishes to have a formal, valid membership decision. It's not unclear at all, it's obvious. What is unclear is what the individual parties will focus on in this matter. We in the Progress Party have a clear view that we will respect the decision in a referendum in Norway. See 50.1 pst. yes for Norway to become a member of the EU, all the party party representatives will vote in favour of the proposal for the necessary formal decision here in the Chamber. See 50.1 pst. that we will not become members of the EU, all of our representatives of big business will vote against if some parties would nevertheless make proposals for the formal decisions. We see it as the role of the Storting here is to carry out the will of the populace, where every voice should count exactly the same, whether you live in one place or another, it has one or the other profession, or one or the other background. Then it was said that we want to run public information. Yeah, we're going to run people's information about what's our view of the different elements. It will be done by various representatives of our party who certainly have different personal views. So we do not believe that it has any particular significance for any such debate on the national meeting of the Progress Party, with 173 to 154 votes, gives one or the other council. That's what individuals give of advice, I think voters will appreciate, advice from people they have to trust. The representatives of the Progress Party will also consider this when this case might arise again. So I'm a little surprised by both the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. I fully agree with the constitutional considerations that came from both Kjell Engebretsen and Martin Engeset. It's a little difficult for me to say that, but for once I agree with both of them. It's relatively rare, because often we're on different sides. But just when it comes to the constitutional, it's the Biggest that decides. And we can't adduce when it comes to our role. It is also the case that the Supreme Court often rejects judgments with minority votes. So it's the Storting, the National Assembly, that decides these questions. In that case, each group and, where appropriate, each representative shall obtain the advice they wish to receive before taking a decision themselves. So we want to reject both of these proposals from the minorities that exist here, because this is not a task for the Storting, but for the individual parties and big groups. In addition, with the proposals of the Christian People's Party in particular, it would be that if the necessary initiatives were to be taken, either from a large majority or from a government, to initiate a process, for example: In other words, it has to be withdrawn for two to three years because it is said that if it is done, a Commission must be set up, which will then submit its decision, and it should not be possible to submit a formal application before the submission of the application. So if a government and a large majority in a given situation think that now there's an acute situation -- maybe the coastal population is starting to say that now we need better access for our fish, or that something can happen, that there's a pressure in the population to get the process going -- then you should start by setting up a commission that will probably work for two or three years before the Storting will decide whether to send any application. It will be to impose on the Storting an obstacle to making a large number of people who may wish to do so, which is totally unacceptable. So you're going to try to bind the Storting. And that's where we know that until the possible draft constitution that we've had the pleasure of presenting, as developed by Professor Eivind Smith, is adopted, where one can bind later accumulation, this decision will in reality also be a nullity, because one collapse cannot bind later accumulation. And if a majority wanted to send an application, you would simply cancel the decision that forced you to set up a commission to make this statement. Both proposals are, in fact, a nullity, even if, contrary to assumption, they were to be adopted. I recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote against both minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e423	I must say I am somewhat surprised at this debate. None of us have suggested putting down a commission that would suggest in a way to let the Storting adjourn. What we want is to get an informed debate - both in the Grand Duchy and outside - on the constitutional aspects of EU membership. I agree with the rapporteur. I would like to speak to the President-in-Office of the Council for his comments. The only thing we disagree about is the time to put down a commission. I would therefore ask that the vote be put up so that we can vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the Christian People's Party. The EU debate is ongoing. Yes-people have never accepted the loss of referendum in 1994. We realize that there are powerful forces that want us into the EU. So both the Labour Party and the Right want what they're playing. They discuss without wanting to address the realities of membership, for example: what the constitutional consequences will be. That's exactly what we want to find out from a commission that can advise Stortinget. We believe that the Norwegian people are entitled to a broad and informed debate on the consequences of any Norwegian membership of the EU. A Constitutional Commission, consisting of independent constitutional lawyers and EU lawyers, would be an important contribution, but only one of several contributions. Therefore, I think it is rather strange to hear the argument, but also to hear that the yes parties are not interested in it. None of us are accusing the yes-people of wanting to escape or hide anything. If it becomes relevant to apply for EU membership, it is important that both the people and the Storing should know in good time what authority the Storing agrees to transfer to others and what obligations it entails. As Professor Eivind Smith says in the 2004 Law and Court: ‘If a well-informed public debate on membership is a good one, decisions that make significant changes to what follows from the text of the Constitution would be preferable.’ One would like to disagree with the scope of the obligations that EU membership would entail. I have full respect for representatives from the yes parties who see this in a completely different way from what I do. But precisely because we disagree, it would be interesting if a Commission went through the Norwegian Constitution to assess what changes to the Constitution an EU membership would require. [[Valle]] Sweden has. The Swedish Parliament did not abdicate from the interpretation of its constitution because of it. We believe it is necessary to carry out such an assessment, not least because the EU has changed towards closer union, closer integration. One question that is important to clarify is: Should the Constitution § 93 be used or should a use § 112? So it's not obvious that it's obvious to everyone. Several of Norway’s leading experts in state and EU law have concluded that Norway cannot be notified into the EU under Basic Law § 93. That discussion I hope that the yes-parties do not put a lid on because if they do not agree to put down a commission now. For us, it is obvious that § 93, requiring a majority of three-quarters, is a safety valve if yes-page does not have time to wait. But the most important thing is that § 93 opens the way for the release of sovereignty in a limited area. The problem is that EU cooperation can no longer be seen as a restricted area. Therefore, it would be wise, in our opinion, if there were to be a situation in which it would be appropriate to apply for membership, at least to discuss section 112, with the requirements for the necessary constitutional amendments, to be taken into account, because, if adopted, the EU basic law would require several central paragraphs to be amended. To go back to the experts, who are both on the yes- and no-pages: Professor Trond Norby said to the evening post in spring, when the question was raised, that the Constitution would be a danger if it did not tell the truth about how Norway should be governed, in other words, about how the rules of the Norwegian democracy should be. According to the same statement, Professor Eivind Smith, who is on the yes-page, believes that there is no need to, but should change the Constitution at the time of an EU registration. As he says: ‘You can have a sleeping foundation law if you want to, but I think it’s far more neat and honest to have a foundation law that doesn’t blur reality.’ There are many paragraphs that may be relevant to change: § 1 on the independence and indivisibility of Norway, § 3 on the fact that the executive power shall lie with the King - in an EU membership much of the executive power will lie with the Commission - § 26 on the King's right to convene troops and start wars, § 49 on the fact that the people exercise legislative power through the Stortinget and § 75 a on the fact that there is the Stortinget to give and abolish laws. Under the EU Basic Law, the EU Parliament and the Council of Ministers will have legislative power in areas where the EU has either exclusive competence or shared competence. EU law will, as you know, be above Norwegian law. There are, as I said, several paragraphs that it will be relevant to change. This, we think, is very important to arrive at in an EU debate that is ongoing. The majority say that the issue of EU membership was decided by referendums in 1972 and 1994, that is right, and so it has to be in the future. But that is not the decisive factor for which paragraph is to be used. Neither § 93 nor § 112 contain any requirement for a referendum, at least provisionally. If you choose to use § 112, there is nothing to prevent you from putting the proposals for constitutional changes to a referendum before the EU case is decided. It only takes a little longer, but we believe that democracy and the legitimacy of the outcome will serve that purpose. There's at least reason to be open to discuss it. I refer to the proposal in the setting that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e465	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e470	The representative Valle is amazed, and I am amazed at her wonder. This suspicion may be due to her narrowing this issue to a discussion about the EU. This is something quite different and more than a question of EU membership. I understand that the minority more and more confirm that they believe that the Constitution is law and only that. But not even jus is today in the vicinity of getting the same status as a law of nature. Within the law there will be divergences, different perceptions, different interpretations. I want to ask the representative Valle how she wants to deal with such a commission, whether this commission was now set up and came out split, with a minority and a majority. So what's the interpretation going to be? What should be the basis for our further work here? Finally, whether § 112 or § 93 are to be used, etc., can be a discussion that comes later in this room - for all parts. But it'll be the Storting that decides it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e481	If it turns out that a commission came up with different opinions, the Storting will have to listen to the different opinions. The important thing is that it is then possible to get an informed debate on what constitutional changes are needed. And that's not any discussion. There's no small discussion. I would also like to point out that in several contexts the Presidency has put down groups, commissions and samples to look at important issues, such as: national law. It was a mixture of big business representatives and others. We could be open to such a proposal as well. I would like to invite the majority of the Storting to participate in such a proposal. But the important thing is to get an informed debate. I'm very happy that the Engretsen is open to see which paragraph is to be used here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e490	There are two kinds of questions that you ask because you don't know the answer, and the ones that you ask because you know the answer. In the United Nations on 15 December 2004, the second of the proposers behind today's proposals said: ‘This investigation will show that it is no longer the King of the Government who decides whether our soldiers are going to war. And the Storting will not be the highest level when legislative changes and budgetary appropriations are to be made. And the Supreme Court won't be the Supreme Court. An investigation would have made such a situation visible.’;» Now Ågot Valle says that the purpose is to get an informed debate. It's a little original to do information activities through an expert committee. But is then what I quoted from the other contractor, to regard as the classic example of how an uninformed debate is going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e502	I'm not very surprised by the small kick of pay now. If the representative goes through the basic EU law and sees what it means, it is clear that it is at least possible to discuss whether one does not need these changes applicable to the Supreme Court area, all the paragraphs that I have listed, that one has to go through this and see if these changes are necessary. I am calling for a more open mind from the representative of the payroll in this respect. This is, of course, part of the basis for the discussion about the institution that is going on in the EU, whether to accept the institution or not. I maintain that this is a proposal to provide a good enough basis for an informed debate in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e511	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e514	The centre party is disappointed that the bulk of the population does not see the need to carry out an investigation into the constitutional conditions associated with a Norwegian EU membership. It is obvious that Norwegian EU membership will have implications for the Norwegian Constitution. If Norway becomes a member of the EU, we must transfer powers to the EU in a number of important areas, which have also been said by co-rapporteur Åslaug Haga. Power will be transferred in a large way from magnification, from government and from the Supreme Court to the decision-making bodies of the EU and the Court of Justice of the European Union. A number of paragraphs of the Constitution will be completely irrelevant. Others will lose much of their function if Norway joins the EU. This concerns both the obligations of EU membership in the current EU and the provisions contained in the new EU basic law. The paragraphs concerned shall apply, inter alia, to: the provisions on the ultimate judgment of the Supreme Court, that it is for the Grand Duchy to approve the international agreements concluded by the Government, that the Grand Duchy should supervise the activities of the central bank, that the people exercise their legislative power through the Grand Duchy - to name a few. All the time when EU laws will take precedence over Norwegian laws, including the Norwegian Constitution, in a wide range of areas, there will also be a need for completely new procedures to amend the Norwegian Constitution. Paragraph 112 is therefore likely to have to be amended as well. The Constitution must tell the truth about who controls Norway. Therefore, the Constitution does not state that the Stortinget has the exclusive right to adopt laws applicable in Norway, when it will in practice be the EU that will have this exclusive right to design the law in such areas as: trade policy and fisheries policy - and monetary policy for euro members. In a wide range of other policy areas, the basic EU law states that the EU and its Member States share their legislative responsibilities, so-called shared responsibility. Here, too, EU laws are to take precedence over national laws, i.e. that, as the EU adopts new laws, the national laws have to give up - including the national constitutions. In other words, the responsibility of the majority for legislation will gradually diminish. The Constitution can no longer state that the Grand Duchy is to supervise the national monetary system, according to § 75c, if Norway becomes an EU member, because responsibility for monetary policy will then be transferred to the European Central Bank, which, pursuant to Article III-188 of the basic EU law, shall neither seek nor take instructions from the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the Union, from any government of a Member State or from any other body. The Constitution cannot say that the Storting is responsible for concluding agreements with foreign countries and organisations, as stated in Section 75g, when this will become a unilateral responsibility of the EU in the areas covered by the Constitution. Nor can it be stated in the Basic Law that the government has the right to convene troops and possibly engage in war, as stated in Section 26, when the EU is gradually building a common army and common defence policy. In this respect, it is interesting to note that the EU country Ireland has reserved itself to participate in EU military combat groups on the basis of constitutional conditions. Of course, there are several reasons why Ireland, as a neutral country, is experiencing constitutional difficulties in participating in the EU army, but one of the factors highlighted by the Irish Minister of Defence, is that the Irish Constitution requires a UN mandate for the use of Irish forces in operations abroad, and that the necessary UN resolution will often not be able to reach within the 10-15 days of the expected response of the EU forces - i.e. it would be contrary to Ireland's constitution to take this into account. One would like to disagree with the scope of the obligations of EU membership. It would therefore be interesting if a Commission, consisting of independent lawyers, reviewed the Norwegian Constitution to assess what changes an EU membership would require. This review has been carried out by our neighbouring country Sweden, both before and after they joined the Union. It is also worth noting that Sweden has made several changes to its constitution after becoming a member of the EU, and the Swedish Constitution now explicitly states that Parliament can leave decisions to the EU. The Norwegian people are demanding a broad and informed debate on the consequences of any Norwegian membership of the EU. A Constitutional Commission could make an important contribution to this. There is a debate on these issues in the population. Among other things, the Free Word Foundation organises a seminar for the weekend in which some of Norway's top experts in law and state science are challenged to make their views known on this topic. This year it is 100 years since the Union of Sweden was dissolved. Just in such a year, it would be appropriate to review the Norwegian Constitution: How is the Norwegian Constitution today in relation to existing international commitments for Norway, and what would be the consequence of any Norwegian EU membership? The EU Constitution was signed on 29 October last year and is now available in a final Danish version which can be obtained from EU websites. This Constitution will reach referendums in a number of EU Member States, and the result of this, not least in countries such as Denmark and the United Kingdom, is highly uncertain. It is this document that forms the basis for the discussion on the future of the EU in the EU countries now. The EU debate in Norway is often marked by what was desired in the EU Constitution, not what it actually says. In order to ensure the most informed debate on the consequences of any Norwegian EU membership, including the implications for the Norwegian Constitution, the EU Constitution should be translated into Norwegian and made available to the public in Norway. It would certainly be an advantage if one could also have an unwarranted investigation into the constitutional consequences for our constitution. The centre party will support proposal No. 1, from SV, during the voting. The attitude suggests that there will be no majority, so the Central Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e548	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e551	I was a long way on the way in doubt during the intervention of the representative, Mr Enoxsen, about whether he argued for or against the need for a so-called independent commission. The whole of the first part of his posts showed that the representative, Mr. Enoxen, is at least not in doubt as to what the answers are to all the questions he was going to ask regarding the number of constitutional paragraphs to be amended if necessary. The second element went on the reference to there being a debate on this. Yes, God better, it is, and it has been in Norway for 30 years. So if there is a lack of debate that should be the motivation for the Presidentship of the Stortinge to appoint a commission to initiate the debate, then it is with respect that it is difficult to report what kind of globe you live on. The very fact that this debate is being conducted as it should in a naturally functioning society is the strongest argument against the fact that, from the top of the Norwegian system, the Presidency of the Storting should initiate a debate by means of experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e558	The representative of the salary has clearly also decided on the need to make an assessment of the constitutional situation, so that the undersigned should not be alone. What is the point of this, then, is that an assessment of the constitutional situation should be carried out, so that those involved in this debate - it is not a question of initiating a debate, the debate is going on today - can do so on the basis of an opinion, perhaps on the basis of the majority's or minority's opinion in such a Commission, on which paragraphs of the Constitution should be amended, and on what constitutional consequences an EU Member State will have. My question to the representative for Wage - if he wants to answer it - is: What advice will the Right give its voters in advance of a new application for EU membership in relation to which paragraphs of the Constitution are to be amended? Or should you, as the yes-page has always done, take the problems as they come--first say yes and then take the consequences of it without having taken the debate in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e568	The questions get Inge Wohnung in that case come back in a later article. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e573	The main purpose of creating the Norwegian Constitution was to ensure the country a form of governance characterised by national autonomy. We have later built up a law that strengthens this intention in the Constitution, and that includes, among other things. has given us control of our natural resources. However, after some parties wanted to open up Norwegian membership of the EU, important changes to the Constitution have weakened its intention. In particular, the provisions of Section 93 on the conferral of sovereignty in a limited area have created problems in relation to asserting Norwegian sovereignty. This paragraph has been used to adapt Norway to the EU in a number of key areas. We have obtained a veterinary agreement prohibiting border checks on food and a Schengen agreement prohibiting passport checks at the EU border. We have an EEA agreement that is becoming more and more extensive, and we have received EU approval for cars, etc., etc. The Coastal Party wants us to stop the gradual adaptation of the EU. Norway should withdraw from the EEA and Schengen. The Basic Law should be amended at those points where it may involve the issuing of sovereignty. Therefore, last autumn, the Coastal Party proposed that Section 93 of the Constitution be deleted, as it is an outburst of recent dates. The Coastal Party recently raised the question of the Constitution’s relationship with Norwegian EU membership in the Stortinget Question Time. We are pleased that there is now a formal proposal to have this legally assessed. We hope that such an assessment can give a more realistic picture of what EU membership implies for the Norwegian Constitution. Professionals often disagree with complex legal issues in which policy assessments are also involved. In such cases, it is particularly important to arrive at the premises of individual experts. Only in that way can most people get a thorough and transparent presentation of the case. Good public information is a prerequisite for real government. The EU is changing rapidly, but there is no good argument for postponing any assessment of the impact of EU membership on the Constitution. As long as we risk sending an EU application to the majority of the population in a few years' time, it has a high self-esteem to be constantly up-to-date on the effects of EU membership. It is natural that the Constitutional Commission should primarily consider any Norwegian EU membership in relation to the provisions of the recently adopted Constitutional Law in the EU. However, there remains a demanding ratification process in the various Member States before the EU basic law is finally in place. It may therefore also be useful to have a parallel assessment of an EU membership based on existing EU treaties. In this way, it is also possible to clearly show the difference between the EU basic law and the other Treaties. The final word on the issue of Norwegian EU membership is used by policy makers, but the principle of a referendum has been in place for a long time. Recently, the Constitution itself has also been incorporated. It is therefore regrettable that the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party are voting against the proposal to set up a Constitutional Commission now. The Christian People's Party's proposal to wait until a commission is initiated to apply for a Norwegian membership is also not good. A thorough investigation requires time. It can even be shown that the new knowledge of the constitutional effects of EU membership leads to no application being made! That would be positive, even from the point of view of the Christian People's Party, wouldn't it? The coastal party will support minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e594	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e597	What historically characterises the Norwegian Constitution is that it establishes, at a time when this was not common in Europe, the sovereignty of the people and the will of the people, as the basic element of the government. It's not about crushing a kingdom of God's grace, it's about the will of the people. Then it would be a cross of thought if, in questions of great political reach at the beginning of the 21st century, one wanted to use the Constitution, of all things, as an instrument against the will of the people. A lot of today's debate shows that that's exactly what you want. It is intended to use the Basic Law as a political instrument to make it difficult for the population to get through, if the population group wishes Norway to participate on an equal footing with the 25 or, where appropriate, when the time comes, 28 or 30 other European countries participating in the same cooperation. It must be characterised as a paradox, especially when it is sought at the same time to present it as a public information project. At my discretion, it would be extremely unfortunate if, for tactical reasons, a proposal like this were to join the Storting and create a precedent for the Storing to solve political problems for the future by appointing expert commissions of lawyers, of all things. First, it would help to erase a boundary that has already been diffuse enough, between what's jus, and what's politics. It can't be desirable. Secondly, it would help to erase what, according to the Constitution, is the Curse of the Storting – apologies, President – obligation: to administer the constitution of Norway conscientiously and at any time to take responsibility for interpreting the Constitution and, if necessary, to amend the Constitution if one considers that there are grounds for doing so. In my opinion, this proposal is one of the worst things that could be possible to figure out, in terms of respecting the Norwegian constitution and the principles of power distribution on which this basic law is based. It's the Storting that has this responsibility, because the Storing is expected to be an expression of the will of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e606	The President will ask the representatives to use Parliamentary acceptable terms in their speeches.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e609	Yes, I'll try. Trying to sum up a debate like this, I don't even want to try, but the main question after listening to this debate and sharing in it is: Is a distribution justifiable? First to the representative, Mr Engeset, who says that this proposal is for tactical reasons. I can't speak on behalf of the SV and the Center Party, but I can speak on behalf of the Christian People's Party, and then I'll say that's not it. It is simply a desire to meet a requirement that one be forbidden by any new application. For my part, I would like to add: I listened to an interview with the Czech President, Václav Havel. He said immediately after it was clear that the Czech Republic would become a new EU member, that they would now have to rewrite their constitution. In Sweden, one known to have had two awards. The first one was out of date. There had been so much progress in the European Union that it had to be redispatched, and the new edition shows quite clearly that the Riksdag passed decisions on to the EU system. Why should we not then in Norway, if it is relevant for a new round, allow us to use time to get an explanation that will clarify these constitutional questions? That is my reason for joining in on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e618	I have to admit that I now have problems understanding what the representative actually argues for. Does the representative consider that it would be unnecessary to amend the Constitution by any membership? Or does the representative of Wage think that membership is the most important, and that the changes that will subsequently prove necessary in the Constitution will take place at that time, no matter what changes it may be, and regardless of whether the population is aware of what changes are to be made, prior to an application and a possible yes to membership - people will see as time goes on, what will be done? On previous occasions, we have had tough debates in this Chamber on the changes that need to be made and the consequences of EU membership, including in connection with the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. Most people do well to remember the debate on the possibility of maintaining the differentiated employer’s fee, where former municipal minister Gunnar Berge from this pulpit almost guaranteed that the differentiated employer’s fee could be maintained independently of EU membership. Today, we see that even the yes side is almost bothering across the EU that makes it so problematic that we cannot be allowed to maintain that type of scheme on a national basis. It is clear that the Yes side does not want this debate to be preceded by a new EU debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e625	I didn't intend to take the word, but I have to take it anyway. I totally agree with Odd Roger on what he said. Wages are very concerned with the people's will and the people's government. Yeah, so am I. But I have to ask, just as Odd Roger asked, has the people been told that the Constitution must be amended by EU membership? The Constitution of the European Union is under Norwegian constitution! Is wages and Europeans against the people getting ready for this? There's no secret in this room. But it seems that they are afraid that there will be a debate in which people will be told that the Constitution must be amended by EU membership. Or is it such to understand that EU citizens believe that the Constitution must not be amended? If they mean it, they can't know what they mean, because the Constitution has to be changed. And the question is, what needs to be changed in the Constitution? The issue that has been raised is not the importance of the Constitution, but what we want to change in the Constitution by EU membership. That is the question we are discussing today. And I have to ask again: are the EU's followers afraid that the Norwegian people will be told that the Constitution must be amended?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e632	The President would like to remind you that you must use the full first name and surname of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e635	The representative of Enoxsen was in doubt about what I argued for. That's the good reason, because I haven't argued for anything. On the other hand, I have argued against what is being discussed, namely Document No. 8:81 and the proposal to set up an expert commission of lawyers, and that this be done by the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. It's at best a dead end, and at worst a diversion. It is of no interest that the Stortinget, as the legislative authority, should put on tender questions relating to the most fundamental aspects of the legislative mandate, namely the Constitution. Then I have to remind myself of what has been said several times in the debate, that it stands for any of the 165 representatives of the Storting and any party group of the Storing to be perfectly free to gather all the expert considerations they need in this context. To this end, the Stortinget has significantly expanded the access to resources for the batch groups, precisely in order to ensure that the batch groups have at all times the knowledge they need in order to take a political position. It would, in my view, create a precedent that would deceive all things, precisely the Constitution and the Basic Law principle of the division of responsibilities between state powers, if the Presidency of the Stortinge were to be the body that would appoint expert commissions to solve political problems. That's really what you want. The fact that the legal person makes observations is quite fine, but it is at least one of the Commission’s tasks to carry out the type of professional assessment. But then you also had to ask yourself -- now, fortunately, there's no reason to do that, because this isn't going to get a majority anyway -- what in the world is what you're going to be independent of? When you stress that there should be independent legal instructors, unlike dependent legal instructors, what or who are they to be independent of, in order to be qualified to sit in such a commission? And how can one imagine that it would have any meaning to draw votes from a commission of experts into a fundamental political debate? The only thing that can be achieved in this way is to deceive the political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e644	I'm sorry to have to extend this debate, but I think I'll do it relatively briefly. I believe that this debate has shown with all due clarity that we are discussing two different things in this respect. The proposers and the parties who are now behind these proposals are discussing future membership of the European Union. The rest of this room discusses the constitutional systems in Norway. And when you don't have a common starting point for the discussion, you might think there's going to be a little bit of an outrageous debate. I very much agree with what Inge Wohnning said now. Because if you were to get such a commission of independent constitutional lawyers -- that in itself was supposed to be a trial -- we'd probably get these. If we now move on to discussing the EU and any membership, the yes-page will continue with its arguments and use this Commission for everything it is worth, and with its interpretations of what has emerged there. The no-page will do the exact same thing. So when the Bastisen asks whether it is not the case that the Constitution must be amended by membership of the European Union, it is well possible. It may even be likely, but it has nothing to do with this question. What we're discussing here is a system for the Storting to set up a commission to interpret the Constitution, and we think that is definitely a very wrong track to be on. Then it is that we are all going to gain all possible expertise and help in our debate and information on the issue of possible membership of the European Union. But this is not just a question of the constitutional system in Norway. That is why I believe that the debate has become a little shaky from time to time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e659	Odd Roger Enoksen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e662	It's possible, as the representative says, that we're discussing two different things, but in that case I would argue that it's the minority that's discussing the constitutional relationship. I find it alarming that the majority is not interested in obtaining advice. Wages and salaries express amazement at the fact that tenders are to be offered in the most basic terms of the legislation. At the same time, the representative calls for the party groups to do exactly the same, that the party groups should seek their advice where they wish, i.e. to put it exactly the same way. The fact that the legal officer makes observations is fine, says the representative, "Wages and salaries." Should it be good then that the lawyers give their views to Stortinget, so that, on that basis, prior to a new EU application, the Stortinget can discuss the constitutional consequences of EU membership?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e671	No salary has spoken twice and is given the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e674	I thought that it would have been possible to perceive the point, but I want to repeat it for safety reasons: there is a difference between the fact that the Presidency of the United Kingdom is setting up a commission of so-called independent lawyers, and the fact that individual representatives and party groups are obtaining what they need from expert advice. If you don't see the difference between the two things, you should hardly make or support proposals of the kind we're dealing with today, because then you unwittingly reveal that you haven't understood a lot of constitutional questions at all, and that you're really not interested in it either. You're only interested in using constitutional provisions when it fits into the political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e681	Should it be relevant for Norway to apply for membership and enter into negotiations with the EU, which I sincerely hope, but it will show the time, it will be primarily about politics. What the Norwegian Constitution says or does not say, and what provisions it has, is something you have to deal with when you have to make a decision. However, the question to be addressed to the population is whether Norway, with the desired outcome of the negotiations, wants to participate in the European Community, and that will be a political issue. Regardless of what all the world's experts on constitutional issues - whether there are experts inside this house, or there are experts outside - say about the significance of this for the Norwegian Constitution, it is the political question of Norway that wants to participate in the premises that the outcome of the negotiations gives, which is crucial. In that case, it is not really possible to play any kind of role, at least not at this time, in setting up a commission to wonder what changes Norway might have to make in its constitution. The paradox is that as it is today, the Swedish parliament has a greater influence than the Norwegian parliament in terms of the design of the legal status of the Norwegian population in international issues, because the Swedish parliament, through active participation in what is to become EU law, actually has influence, while we have no political influence and only have to accept the results that are coming, unless we choose to sit completely outside the European Community. It's always interesting with debates on constitutional issues, at least I think so. But now I think it's all about it, because it's trying to bring in constitutional issues related to the Constitution into a question of a purely political nature, and that the Norwegian people, based on political considerations and political recommendations, are hopefully going to decide once in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e692	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1328]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e709	When the river wave retreated in Southeast Asia, it turned out that irreplaceable cultural memories were destroyed by the violent forces of nature. This shows that culture and nature belong together, but also that it is not possible to secure 100 pst. against the destruction of the collective memory of cultural memories. But much can be done to secure the collections against theft and sudden destruction, and not least against the slow and destructive processes that occur when the collections are not secured and anticipated in a good enough way. Let's say that the country's many small and large museums are institutions that have the task of researching, collecting, preserving and disseminating objects and evidence of nature, culture and art history. These are social institutions that need to be able to become key players in the knowledge nation of the future, which need to be able to give future generations the opportunity to get experiences, learning and recognition of who they are, and the context in which they are involved. In other words, the museums should be important arenas for both identity creation and reorientation. And not least, the museums are an important part of local history and competence around many communities. Natural history museums must and must be able to play roles such as species banks and environmental archives, national and international. If we don't take care of all these collections, we'll fail our management responsibility for biodiversity as well as for art and cultural-historical competences. The size was reviewed a year ago by the National Audit Office's report on the conservation and protection of collections at five State museums. It gave us new knowledge of alarming conditions, new knowledge that could be the basis for action. Since then, there have been revelations in the newspapers about how the collections of several museums are doing. Just before Christmas had the evening post notice of alarming conditions at some Oslo museums. Among other things, written that several square metres of the exhibition space at the Folkemuseet were closed because the collections did not have adequate storage conditions. Around the counties, an impressive effort has been made to produce state reports at several collections. They show the seriousness, and that something has to be done. Earlier in the fall, we were shocked when very valuable Munch paintings disappeared from the Munch Museum. One might well discuss the responsibilities, and so I was also done after this theft. But what is important is that both we and the Council of State were warned in the national audit report, which concluded that the measures taken at the five State museums to ensure that meetings against the risk of robbery and sudden destruction were not good enough. The Control and Constitutional Committee said this needs to be taken seriously. The Ranet in the Munch Museum was still something new. Ran of valuable art objects is part of an international economic crime. Both because we have an obligation to keep the icons, the works of our greatest artists, and also because we have an obligation to fight this type of crime, everything must be done to prevent it from happening again, using both shell protection and other measures. So it's seaworthy so that there's a balance between availability for the audience and security for the art objects. I am absolutely sure that there has been a real and serious work to go through why this could happen. The lessons must be reflected in long-term action on physical barriers, and not least the competence of museums. After the theft of the 'Scrik' from the National Gallery in the early 1990s, some have been done and, not least, Norwegian museum development, and now ABMU, funds for security measures. The number of burglaries has decreased, so it turns out that action is useful. But the signal from several is that the 6 million. kr we have available in the year, is too small. The Councils of State can certainly tell us about exceptional measures. That's good, but what are the thoughts of the Council of State regarding the sum in the long term? As important as looking at measures to prevent sudden loss and destruction, it is important to look at the preservation of collections, prevention and preservation when something is destroyed. What did the Riksrevision report show? Well, the collections of the five museums are kept under conditions that do not provide sufficient protection against degrading factors such as climate, light, biodegradation and lack of cleanness simply because of building conditions. Degrading processes are slow, and continued preservation under such conditions as many collections are stored under can cause even greater damage to objects. From several teams, I have recently heard that there has been the most attention to the visible, what can be counted, the number of audiences. The invisible, laborious conservation work has suffered. In the policy of the museum, research, conservation and dissemination must be parallel objectives. If the preservation and preservation work is not adequately conditioned, it will ultimately go beyond what is to be communicated to the public. And then I totally agree with what the Council of State is probably going to say, that it's already doing a lot of good work. I agree. As head of the jury for the museum last year, I was given the opportunity to travel around. I was impressed by the competence and enthusiasm of many museum people. But we have to take it seriously when the same people report that the conditions around the collections are not good enough. Now there's nothing new. The already Velure Committee, which presented the museum report in 1996, concluded that there was a need for a comprehensive plan for protection, conservation and conservation work at the museums and that a shipper's roof was needed. When Stortinget dealt with the ABM notification in 2000, Stortinget agreed with the Ministry that instead of investing in a shipper's roof, it would be investing in actions in ordinary operation, with more permanent effect. I think it was a correct assessment then. But later, after the creation of ABMU, and as a result of the consolidation work that has been done, the time has now come to look at the need for a REVITA plan again. There's been a lot of professionalization in the museum field. The receiver is much more prepared to take advantage of extra funds, if we agree that extra funds are needed than it was ten years ago. Several museums have also developed REVITA plans. What's missing, they say, is means and overall coordination. This is where I believe Norway needs to learn from the Delta plan in the Netherlands. It was set up to get the museums to prioritize conservation as a main task, because the collections were threatened. The plan was anchored in Parliament, and it was aimed at most museums. It was huge amounts that were invested. There were also requirements for plans and priorities on which items were to be taken care of or disposed of, yet to be discarded - because it is also part of such a debate. The Delta plan also provided further training for museum staff. The plan has been evaluated, and it's worth looking at the outcome of the plan. Firstly, the building and climatic requirements that Parliament had formulated were met. Over 50 pst. of the museums reported that they had achieved transparent collections. Secondly, the plan focused heavily on preventive preservation. This resulted in a return on areas in the cultural sector that were not included in the plan, such as: university collections, films and paper preservation. Thirdly, the plan’s systematics of state assessment, sampling and conservation were widely used in new projects. In other words, it had great learning value. And fourthly, and not least, conservation has become an integral part of the work of the museums. In other words, there has been a professionalization. I have asked what overall strategy the Council of State believes is needed in order for us to be able to take care of the art and culture collections and the natural history collections. I would like to challenge the Council of States specifically whether she does not believe that there is now a need for a comprehensive Revita plan, a promise to take back what we know is there, and to secure the future. There is a need for a plan and a promise covering all the museums, including those for which the Ministry of Culture and the Church is not responsible, in other words the museums for which other departments are responsible. A promise is needed to obtain conservation services in all counties. Plans have been drawn up in several counties, and funds have now been allocated to common magazines in Hordaland and Sunnmaere, but fresh funds and long-term thinking are needed here. Will the Council of State present a comprehensive, coordinated plan to look at what is needed in this area, and will she present it to the Stortinge to get a press and a debate in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e758	There are important and far-reaching problem settings that the interpellant addresses. The interpellation is angled towards the museum, but in the introduction I would like to stress that these questions are in principle about the collective memory of society and thus also about the institutions of archives and libraries. In this way, much positive has been achieved over the last decades with the National Archives of the National Archives of Oslo, new archival buildings in Tromsø, Kristiansand and Kongsberg. In Trondheim, from 2007, both the State Archives, the City Archives and archives from other municipalities in the region, together with collections from several museums and from NTNU, will be accommodated in the old submarine bunker Dora. This new ABM centre will represent an important highlight for the conservation and conservation work of many ABM institutions in Trøndelag. In addition, the Archive Act establishes a legal instrument that provides a firmer framework for the collection of archives in the country. In the field of library security and conservation are particularly important for the National Library, which is responsible for the maintenance of all types of publicly available documents. Through the Rana mountain fuselage and the technical functions built up by this part of the National Library, these tasks are well understood. Many museums have also used the services of the National Library of Rana, among others. to ensure photo-historical material. Since then, the National Library has introduced new insurance magazines in Oslo, so that older book and script collections are now ensured in a much better way than in the past. Interpellant is entitled to require a holistic approach to meet the challenges of securing and preserving collections in the art museums and cultural history museums. It is also true that in both the Netherlands and Sweden, one of the last 10-12 years has implemented the time-limit, exceptional measures to improve the quality of protection and protection of museum collections. The use of time-limited measures for conservation work included: discussed in St.meld. No 22 for 1999-2000, sources of knowledge and experience, i.e. the ABM message. The conclusion was that instead of spending on time-limits, exceptional measures are better placed to strengthen the institutions of the museum in a way that will be. Thus, the museum reform started with the consolidation of the many small museum units around the country and the gradual escalation of financial contributions. The economic upswing has so far come halfway. Strength is not related to security and conservation measures - it is up to the museum itself to decide how the funds should be used, based on a general objective of improving the professional standard of institutions. However, there is little doubt that the museum's now being lifted will have much to say for the preservation of collections. In addition, the trade union body manages the state grant scheme for insurance measures at the museum, where the museum can be covered up to 60 pst. the costs of security measures. The annual frame is now, as also the interpellanten mentioned, approx. Six million. kr. From this scheme, it was established in 1984, and until today, about 90 million have been channelled. for museum security measures. Every year, between 30 and 40 museums are added, mainly for fire protection and measures against theft. ABM development indicates that the focus on security issues is much higher at the museum today than in the early 1990s. The Ranet at the Munch Museum created a new threat picture, where a concrete risk for the flow of special art objects was introduced as a brutal reality in the Norwegian museum everyday. The Ministry immediately asked ABM development to identify the consequences of this new freight target. Based on this first assessment the Government proposed in St. prp. No 24 for 2004-2005 to allow 5 million. kr for immediate action by individual museums. We also note that the Municipality of Oslo has seen an extensive work being done to make the Munch Museum a long-standing museum. The Ministry of Culture and the Church, in cooperation with the development of ABM, will look at how the current system of security measures can be made even better and will come back to this in the 2006 budget proposal. The interpellant refers to the Riksrevisions Document No. 3:9 for 2002-2003, ‘The Court of Auditors review of the conservation and preservation of collections at five State museums’, where the National Gallery was one of the museums. For the members of this institution, questions were little asked about the protection against fire and theft, but it was stressed that they continued and more long-term conservation tasks offered many challenges. The government has in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 for 2004-2005 made good progress on how, after the National Museum of Art, the Ministry continues to work on a plan to achieve a proper magazine solution for the National Museum of Art by reconstructing industrial estates. An alternative is a former industrial hall in Lodalen, the Kværnerhallen. As a principle solution, this is exciting in many ways, not least because it can provide the National Museum with a comprehensive solution for magazine and preservation functions throughout 2006. Similarly, it is clear that it is first in the realization of a new building for the art museum in the Tullinløkka area that we will be able to solve the overall conservation and security challenges facing the National Museum of Art with its unique collections. In the Dutch Delta project to which the interpellant refers, the main effort was to improve the overview of the museum collections by increasing the use of IT-based registration and cataloguing. As soon as the project with the National Museum of Art was launched in 2002, a comprehensive registration and cataloguing project was launched for the four museum units included in the National Museum. This project is still a priority task. For many years it has been a targeted strategy to develop common standards and specifications for cataloguing programmes in the Norwegian Cultural History Museum. Funded by ABM development, the Norwegian Folkemuseum is responsible for a common data service, one of which, in cooperation with a number of the largest cultural history museums, is developing a common computer program. This program has proved to be particularly successful and has now been purchased by the Nordic Museum in Stockholm. Storage or storage facilities for those parts of collections that are not on display at any time are an important safeguard for the museum. I've all taken into account the plans of the National Museum of Art. Several institutions are now working on plans for joint storage facilities and preservation units, thus bringing together professional forces and efforts. Of the projects that this year have received grants from the gaming media to cultural buildings, I will mention in this context the Museum Centre in Salhus, where conservation, magazine and other shared functions are provided for the museum in Hordaland. In addition, the Sunnmøre Museum has been given the means to build a new common museum in this region. The most important thing we can do now to strengthen both security measures and other aspects of professional work in the museum is to complete the museum reform that was introduced in the ABM message. It expresses a strategy that gradually strengthens the museum's operational base when it relates to both economic resources and professionalisation. At the same time, under the funding schemes for cultural construction, we will continue to evaluate applications for new and better localities for the museum. In addition, we will continue and further develop the more specific security measures through ABM development. In this context I refer to St.meld. No 48 for 2002-2003, Culture policy towards 2014, where on page 181 the following are expressed: ‘It may also be relevant to consider whether the current system of protective measures under the control of ABM development can be extended to cover delays in documentation and preservation more generally, for example for the purposes of preparation, improvement of climate and light conditions, pest management, electronic documentation and photographing of objects.’ This concerns the overall size of the project and action resources managed by ABM. In other words, it's a budgetary question that the ministry has to come back to in that context. Museum hedges are too important to focus solely or primarily on time-limited, exceptional measures. It is the smooth, targeted work that produces the best results, both in a short and a long time perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e808	I thank you for a very interesting and satisfying answer. I agree that we need to look at the library and archive sectors, but it is equally important to look at the museums and cultural memories that are preserved by other departments, i.e. That we get a complete coordination here. I also agree with the consideration that it is the smooth and targeted work that provides the best results in both a short and a long time perspective. Nevertheless, there are professionals, whom I am listening to, and whom I believe have great competence, who believe that there is a need for fresh funds if we are to get the standard increase that the sector obviously needs. Thus, there is a need for fresh funds beyond what has already been suggested in the ABM message, and that they can be earmarked for REVITA actions, especially when there is almost a sudden stop to the museum reform that the Council of State referred to, because of the budgetary situation. I point out that the department stores are beautifully furnished, so this has something to do with public and private finances. The Council of State referred to the quotation from the Culture Communication. It gives me hope that she will assess whether exceptional measures are needed here. I ask her again if she will present an overall plan that can be anchored in the Storting. So a challenge. The Control and Constitutional Committee and a unanimous Culture Committee have called for stronger coordination of the museum field, regardless of ministerial ties. So this is very relevant to what we're discussing. The Culture Committee pointed out that the Ministry of the Environment has reduced the grants for 2003/2004 to the ten priority technical and industrial cultural memories, while the Ministry of Culture has launched a comprehensive museum reform. This shows that you're thinking completely. For example, those who take conservatory training in Norway - this has something to do with competence - have difficulty finding places of practice during education or after education. This requires coordination between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture. I would like to ask the Council of State: will she now take on responsibility for coordinating a comprehensive museum policy here in the country? The field screams for it, also from the preservation and protection of the collections. The store has requested this several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e821	First, to take it that professionals say they need healthy money to raise their sector: show me a group of professionals who don't need healthy money! I guess there's something that we hear everywhere when we're discussing different issues, whether it's culture, or whether there's something else, that a person needs healthy money. When it concerns the ABM field, we've promised a stepping-up plan. So, as I said in my post, we've come about halfway in that escalation plan. This means that we have the same amount left when it comes to making sure that the issues addressed by the interpellant are dealt with in Museums-Noreg. So ask the interpellant if we could possibly come back to Stortinget with a plane. Then my question is, Should I believe that's what we need? Did we not deal with an ABM message for a very short time? It's not that long ago. Then there was a clear understanding of the issues, and one discussed them in Stortinget. Later, we have also discussed a big message on cultural policy. In this case, there is no need for any more documents for Stortinget, but that we have to keep the pressure on the permissions when implementing the ABM message is quite clear. I'll do as best I can in the years that come. So also ask the interpellant if we can look at the division of responsibilities between the different departments when it comes to the different museums. There's my impression that I still want some department to be responsible for the museum, but I can be there and click on them to hold up the opening ceremony of the various museums for which they are responsible. But I don't think it'll be easier to do this by coordinating everything in one department. Of course, I'm going to evaluate this a little bit more thoroughly than what I've done so far. At least at least my conclusion is that the best thing to do is to keep responsibility in the departments that are responsible today. But that the Ministry of Culture has a superior responsibility, as well as that other departments have sectoral responsibility for the various museums, that's clear. Of course, I have to take that responsibility seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e832	The President will note that the observation that there are few who show interest in money that is not healthy is quite obviously correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e835	I'll first give the interpellant praise to take up this theme. It is quite correct, as the interpellant Ågot Valle writes in the interpellation: ‘Twices have rightly shocked many, but the question cannot be turned into mere theft.’ The theft may clearly show that we are well naïve. We are a young nation, and the art taxes we have, we have believed that we all have an oath. Therefore, it has been a joint responsibility to take care of them. After a very thorough and thorough presentation by the Minister of Culture, there is not much to add. I think that this theft, which is the background of the interpellation, put a stake in us all. We want to take care of our art taxes. I also fully agree that it is the smooth, targeted work that brings benefits. I think that I briefly say that this theft may have opened our eyes, and that those who are now responsible around at the museums, must be better off noticing that this requires both a smooth and a targeted work. But for the later years, we all may also have to take a joint responsibility to ensure that there are appropriations so that our art taxes can remain joint ownership. Now it's just to hope that the Munch paintings are not damaged. I expect that this theft will be solved in the long term. I fully support the Council of State's proposals for improvements. I also believe that, on the part of the Storting, we will have an alert eye with accurate protection of national taxes in common, and that in the future we should perhaps be better off when we hear that there is a warning called, primarily from those who are working on this. That is the way in which the Council of State also needs to be informed. At this point, I just want to join what the Council of State has said, and I believe that we can improve the security opportunities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e846	It's an important question that the interpellant raises, and I'm going to stick to the assessments the representative makes of the importance of taking care of our art and culture collections. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a full and good response, which shows that much has been done, and that there is a lot to be done in this area in the future. There's two important questions the interpellant addresses here. One goes on securing against the theft of art objects, and the other goes on preserving, securing and preserving our collections. As many people have been involved, we were all upset and shocked by the Munch thefts last fall, and the question of securing our important national art taxes was highly updated. As an exceptional safeguard, the Government also granted 5 million. kr to ensure selected works of art of particularly high value or high symbolic value. It'll be impossible to secure 100 pst. also against this type of crime. There has been a significant focus in recent years on safeguarding against both fire and theft through the establishment of ABM development and their management of State grant schemes specifically for hedging measures. It is very positive that there has been an escalation of both the use of money and the priority of important protection measures at the museums themselves. It is such that there is a fine balance between safety and good art experiences. It is important, on the one hand, that one does not deprive the audience of the experience of art, while, of course, one must ensure that the work of art cannot be easily removed. These are issues on which ABM development and the individual museum units cooperate well, and we know that there is a lot of good knowledge exchanged. The second question is about the longer-term and very important work of preserving and preserving our national art and culture collections. Here too, museum reform has played an important role. These are also questions we were concerned about when we dealt with the cultural message last year. Strong and solid museum units also ensure the ability to perform well-managed conservation work. It is important that this work continues to be intensified and followed up. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Council of State in its reply points out that it may be appropriate to consider whether the ABM scheme with grants for hedging measures should be extended to backlogs in the context of documentation and preservation in general. These are questions that both the Storting and the Government are concerned about, which we take very seriously, and which I am sure we will come back to later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e861	Like the representative Fallet, I would like to commend the representative Valle for having taken up this interpellation. Securing and preserving our art and cultural treasures is an important topic, on which the Storting should be concerned. We were all shocked when two famous Munch paintings were stolen. When you can walk straight into a museum and literally take a national treasure down from the wall and walk out the door with it, it's something that's tearing wrong. Then there is someone who has not done his job. If I had been a museum director and something like this had happened in my business, I would have been ashamed. I had also assessed my position. No one in a responsible position should be present when such a scandal occurs in their business. There have also been claims in the media that they had actually received money for insurance work, but did not use them. I have not verified that claim, but in that case the matter will be twice as bad. When such national taxes disappear, something is not going to happen, it should not happen, and it must not happen. If we raise our eyes a little bit from the Munch case, this is more generally about securing. These include: on economics and technology. As far as security technology is concerned, it has been around the world. Then it's the economy back. The party promoted some time ago a Document No. 8 proposals to focus on increased opportunities for rental schemes and other opportunities to improve the economy in museums. This got a broad connection here in Stortinget. We think we have to bet more actively on rental. Perhaps institutions should also be better placed to attract audiences and sponsoring funds to increase their revenues, and perhaps sell some of the less important works they have. It could provide the economy with a better guarantee of the real national taxes that we have. This is an important responsibility, which rests on us in responsible positions, in caring for our common cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e872	I agree that it is a very important topic that is addressed in this interview, and that should more often be the subject of both questions and debate, even when it is not necessarily a concrete matter such as: theft of the Munch Museum and the Court of Auditors. I want to stress that securing and safeguarding is perhaps the most important part of the entire museum policy. That's what this is about. I think this needs to be seen in an overall perspective. That's why it's right, as the interpellant does, to demand an overall strategy. I also think that the Council of State has responded very carefully to this call from the interpellant, and she also illuminated with examples, among others. how such a strategy is now planned at the National Museum of Art. This is the goal of the entire ABM policy. Therefore, it is with a little wonder that I listen to the interpellant when she asks for «fresh funds» and a REVITA plan again. The Revita plan, designed at the end of the 1990s, which was partially implemented, was part of the new ABM reform, which is, of course, a comprehensive strategy for safeguarding the entire ABM area. That is why I ask myself a little question about why you now want to take out the security measures again. We've created our own government agency, ABM development, which has all this responsibility, and not only ran, but not least all forms of conservation, protection against pests, against fire -- perhaps one of the most important dangers -- is an important part of what they're working on. And then you're going to have a new plan on the side of this, detached from the ABM reform. Is this an attempt at a rematch in relation to the ABM reform? I noticed that the Council of State said that we were about half-way when it came to fulfilling the ABM reform. I'm glad it was said. This means that the schedule is slightly shifted, but that the aim is still to comply with the plan contained in the ABM message, which was followed by the REVITA plan. So I just want to stress that that's the perspective we need, and it's an overall perspective that is based on completing the ABM reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e884	It is an important theme that has been taken up by the representative Valle, and the Council of State has given a very thorough and, in my opinion, good interpretation around the interpellant's problem settings. Thieves at the Munch Museum of what we consider to be Norwegian cultural heritage most indignant both politicians and people, and we are aware, through the National Audit Office's report, that there is great failure both in securing and preserving our collections at the five state museums. But both when we were dealing with the cultural message, and in connection with the treatment of the cultural budget, we received a signal from the whole country that there was a need for more funds within ABM. There are several here now who have learned that the Sunnmøre Museum has received funds for magazine construction. That's good, but there's a lot of people waiting. The council said in the statement that we must get a permanent strengthening of the museum. That's exactly what I'm saying. The alert step has been named by more people here now. It was said in time that we would have 40 million. kr per. years over a five-year period. We have now completed 50 pst of it. That means that of what the Stortinget once promised, it is said to allow 100 million. kr. That's why a question can be asked if it's not too late, if there's no need for a lift here, so that we can get up to the level that the Storing set in its time. The councils were aware that there were several plans, and there was going to be an escalation. There are thoughts that the Center Party fully supports. A user must always consider accessibility and security. In his statement, the Council of State pointed out that security also occupied her and the ministry, and that is good. So the Council of State said that we must not have time-limited measures, but even, holistic, targeted measures, and I fully support them. When we dealt with the ABM message in time, she was supposed to be whole-hearted, and I support the last speaker, the representative Lånke, who says we have to keep up with what we once started. So my conclusion is that there's a lot of evidence that we have to take responsibility together, we're going to target ABM development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e897	I very much agree with what Eli Sollied Superior said now. So this is not a rematch attempt, I would say to the representative Ola T. Lånke. But through the National Audit Office's report and the state reports that have been prepared, we have renewed our knowledge of the situation in the field. Therefore, the signals are that much more money is needed than the Stortinget suggested when we dealt with the ABM message. I perceive it so that the Council of State in its answer opens up that so can happen, by quoting from the cultural message. It wasn't just the Munch theft that made me go up this interpellation, but just as much that the Riksrevision's report showed that there was a bad situation, especially at the university museums. That is why it is an important message from this debate and from me that the university museums must take part in the network work that is going on, and one must stress the need for this to be integrated into a coherent, coordinated work. So Eirin Fallet says we have to listen to those who work in the field. Yes, and more and more of them get more competence - they need a lot of training and refilling - and that's why it's important to listen to what, among other things. The museum network: A REVITA plan is now needed - let it go into ABM development, it may well be - to take it back. For this, a lot of money is needed, so I really hope that we can get what culturally elevated cultural comrades have committed themselves to. Then I am very pleased with the signals that came from the Council of State that she sees that there is someone who has to take on overall responsibility. I agree that departmental departments should still be responsible for their fields, i.e. at least have responsibility for museums, but some have to take on the work of coordinating what is going on in the museum field. It is as important as seeing that coordination is gradually needed in the archive, library and museum fields, i.e. the interdepartmental work it is responsible for there. I am very pleased that the Council of State gave the signals that she did, in her answer, and I look forward to her also considering funds for extra measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e908	I am pleased with the recordings that have been made by the representatives. It turns out that this is an area that we're not very different about. We're against some. And when the funds are involved, there's something that we'll obviously come back to in the annual budgetary rounds. We are, as I said, halfway in the ramp up plan, and for me it is probably important to implement the ABM message and that plan before we say that we have more means to give over it. But it's also always so that when we've finished a plan and we see that here's not everything that we want, we have to look beyond it. I would like to stress that, as I said, we have a warning of economic escalation, but the strengthening is not a matter of precautionary and conservation measures, so it is up to the museum itself to give priority to precautionary and conservation measures based on the means it receives. And I also know that not everyone is equally happy with what they've got for 2005, and everyone sitting here in the hall is aware of that. It's an important signal for the Government to come today that even if we haven't come as far as we should in relation to the form, it's not the first time that it happens when it comes to escalating plans that Storting has agreed. It's quite common for us to spend a few years more than we initially wanted to do, to get to the goal. Then, once we get to the goal, evaluate whether we have to continue with the same add-on arrangements or similar add-on arrangements because we haven't come far enough to meet the challenges of the different museums and institutions. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the representatives and the Storting for their contributions. It's a certainty to me that we're on the right track, that we're some of the things we do are important, and we'll continue to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e923	Then the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e934	We are then ready to vote on the matter on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e943	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Modulf Auchan on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Presidency of the Grand Duchy is asked to set up a commission of independent constitutional lawyers to present to the Grand Duchy an opinion on the constitutional aspects of any EU membership. It must explain the changes that need to be made to the individual sections of the Constitution. The statement must be made before any EU application is sent.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e969	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Presidency of the Grand Duchy is requested, if a new application for Norwegian EU membership is initiated from the start of government or enlargement, to set up a commission of independent constitutional lawyers to present to the Grand Duchy a view on the constitutional aspects of any Norwegian EU membership. It must explain the changes that need to be made to the individual sections of the Constitution. The statement must be made before any EU application is sent.’ The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will now support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-11.ana.ud501e997	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
