ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-07.ana.ud1685e26	The called alternate of the West-Agder County, Ingunn Foss, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-07.ana.ud1685e61	The mandate committee shall present a unanimous opinion, which is why I shall mention only some of the most important aspects of the electoral process. So let's do a couple of numbers first. The number of votes cast is 2,655 292. The number of votes cast is 5,302. The number of votes rejected because they arrived too late is 605. The total number of rejected ballots is 1 980. The number of rejected ballots because they are missing stamps is 1 204. The number of blank ballots is 9,452. With the new electoral law, the number of representatives has increased from 165 to 169 and the number of equalisation mandates from 8 to 19, which are now allocated one mandate to each country. The advance polling has again become a municipal responsibility. The envelopes are replaced with stamping. The Board of Appeal is no longer the Stortinget, but the National Election Board. The current decision is referenced in separate annexes to the setting. The Supervisory Committee has noticed that many preliminary votes were late for election, so that they had to be rejected, while others arrived late so that they could not be counted. It's not durable, and it's absolutely necessary to look at this relationship to the next choice. It has to be assessed, for example: to be able to shift the deadline for submission to the day after the election, as the rule was before – then with the result that the decision making will come later, and that many will have to live under stress for a few hours longer. Another option is to set an earlier time limit for the prior vote and to assess the mode of shipment. Late mail is not acceptable, for all voices issued in a timely and orderly manner must be counted. Many voters have been rejected because they were not in the number of men. In this choice, there was an increase in such cases — despite good information from the electoral authorities. The Supervisory Committee notes that the information on headcounting does not appear to have been obtained by many voters and therefore asks the Ministry to consider what can be done to avoid the rejection of votes for this reason. However, the lack of ballots on election days and prior voting has not led to the final election result, as the circles concerned were too small to do so. That's unacceptable anyway. But it's unfortunate that voters don't find the right ballot and have to take this up in the polling room, because the vote is actually supposed to be secret. The Committee calls on the voters to step up their oversight and asks the Ministry to consider whether it is appropriate to regulate how such errors should be identified. Some votes have been rejected because they have not been stamped. Whether this is because of forgetting, or whether someone has voluntarily placed two ballots in the ballot box, is not known. It is therefore important that the electorate be aware of this, in order to avoid rejection of votes. The increase in the number of blank votes may also be due to the fact that voters have actually wanted to vote blank. Such votes, however, represent a very small proportion of the votes cast in the year’s elections. In the context of the overall choice-making process, some irregularities have also been identified in the reporting process at this time. The management of the meeting books in several counties and municipalities has been deficient, and this has created a lot more work for the control bodies. The use of computer-based decision-making systems has worked well in some places, but elsewhere has helped to really complicate the decision-making process. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry to carry out a review of current procedures, technical systems and training needs with a view to reducing error reporting. Neither the facts raised in the complaints nor the errors found during the verification of the decision-making process are such that they may have had a real influence on the outcome of the elections. The mandate committee has reviewed the electoral process for all the counties and assessed any errors made in relation to the margins separating the mandates. The smallest margin we had this time in West Agder states, where the difference between the Labour Party and the Progress Party, which won the last mandate, was only 19 votes. So there's a reason to say that every voice counts. The experience of the electoral law allows the parties to decide whether or not to carry out an evaluation. The mandate committee has not been fully involved. I also refer to Annex 1 to the setting, which gives more detailed facts, and recommend with the unanimous vote of this committee, that the decision making be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-10-07.ana.ud1685e101	Several have not asked for the word.
