ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e27	An application for sick leave has been lodged with the representative of Bjørn Hernæs from 20 January onwards. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Kari Gløersen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e45	The Kari Glacier is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e60	In an international context, Norway is given good opportunities for its lifelong learning policy. It is good for Norway to do well internationally in one area, since we are used to being far below the rankings for basic education. We have a well-educated population, which is an important competitive advantage for a nation. However, when we go into the field of continuing education and look at the reform of competence and the goals set for it, it is timely to ask whether we should settle down on having high scores internationally. In a Fafo report, researchers Anna Hagen and Sveinung Skule have analysed the situation in adults and continuing education. The review of education statistics and the State reports of the Learning Centre from municipalities show that the reform of competence has hardly had a significant impact on participation in continuing education, although there are some exceptions. An increase in adapted initial training for adults has not been recorded. Many municipalities have been passive, and few municipalities have developed procedures for implementing the rights of adults to basic education. Furthermore, the figures show a decline in the number of adult students in secondary education from 1999 to 2002. The exception is adults taking the health and social sciences, where the number has increased slightly. It has a clear link with the possibility of shortening on the basis of acquired real competence. Two out of three adults who have been assessed in real terms in a professional field have been assessed in relation to health and social sciences. There has also been a significant increase in the number of students over 30 years of age, i.e. adult students, at our colleges. It is related to increased intake based on real competence. In higher education, as in secondary education, the majority of real-time students take education in health and social sciences. Many also regard it as a decentralised high school education adapted to family and employment conditions, an offer that unfortunately is hit through the cut government parties and the Progress Party made in the State budget for 2005. In this area, the reform has helped to increase the number of professionals who have been trained. compensates for the failure of the recruitment of young applicants for care. It has strengthened municipal services with increased professionalism. Women, above all, have experience in working in the sector and are motivated to take such courses. Real competence assessment, empowerment and formalisation of skills have given this group the opportunity to achieve a stronger position on the labour market, increased status and higher wages. There has been a decrease in the number of participants in continuing education at universities between 1998 and 2002, with the exception of pedagogical faculties. The level of formal continuing education is stable. As this shows, the reform of competence and other public actions have been successful in parts of the competence market, especially in the public sector higher education groups. In other parts of the competence market, the effectiveness of the competence reform seems to have been limited. This is particularly true for low-skilled people in the private sector. I refer to a report called ‘But where should we address ourselves?’ by Engesbak and others, where a 2003 survey shows that adults’ right to primary and secondary education is little known in the population. One in two has little knowledge of adults' right to education, and those with the least education are also least aware of this right. This suggests that targeted and systematic work is still needed to inform and provide adapted training provision to those groups of the population most in need of training. It's worth stressing that we have 100,000 unemployed. Those with the lowest education leave the longest available and have the worst chance of getting a job. With this as a reference background, it is also necessary to mention other key actors in adult education, such as study associations and distance learning institutions. They have experienced having to cut a lot in their offers because of large government cuts done here in this room. If one is to succeed in the adult education field and that is a bit of the point, society must play on all qualitatively good actors, which these institutions actually represent. It is also worrying that many municipalities and county councils which have traditionally carried out the task in a good way now need to tighten up the supply of training applicants. Nord-Trøndelag County is one example - last year, it was decided to cut off the largest and most popular adult education provision, which affects motivated education seekers. One sees similar examples from other states. Larger student coal in the 16-19 age group - while having to tighten up the number of classes and places - suggests that there will be fewer resources for those seeking education outside this group. Many who are entitled to such training are denied the application and counties who are obliged to disclose the rights of adults in the field are detained for financial reasons. In this context, I ask the Council of State to explain how she will ensure that the rights of adults to adapted basic training are real and whether it is still right to distinguish between adults with and without justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e93	One of the main objectives of the Skills Reform is that all adults who need it will be able to attend primary school and that all adults who have not completed secondary education will be able to receive such training. The aim is to facilitate everyone’s having the necessary basic skills to participate in working and social life. Persons born after 1978, as a result of Reform 94, are automatically entitled to secondary education. At the same time, rights have also been introduced for those born before 1978 who have not previously completed secondary education. The possibilities for those without primary education are also improved. Training shall be based on the actual competence of the individual. It is the county councils which are to ensure that adults’ rights to secondary education are respected and the municipalities have similar responsibilities in the field of primary education. They have been strongly encouraged to use study associations and independent distance learning institutions and to cooperate with the labour market. That is the formal framework. What about the practice? I think maybe the interpellant is drawing a slightly dark picture. Figures from the 2003 Labour Force Survey of the Central Bureau show that Norway is the number two, according to Sweden, in terms of participation in continuing education and training. Norway is active both in the EU and the OECD in job-oriented education and training in the active population. The reform has, in my view, contributed to a new view of learning and competence, and in individual sectors it has had a significant impact by increasing access to skilled labour. The health sector, as mentioned above, is distinguished by the fact that many have received recognition of competence through real-time competence assessment and professional testing. Information from the counties processed by Vox, the National Centre for Labour Education, shows that in the autumn of 2003 there were approximately 21 200 adults in county secondary education. 84 pst. of which training was specifically organised for adults. This means that the offers are usually curtailed and adapted to the individual. According to the study, the counties have a positive attitude towards the reform of competence. However, evaluation of the reform shows that there is still a need for skills enhancement that has not been achieved. The reasons for this are complex. I believe one important reason is that county councils assess and value real skills and training provision for adults somewhat differently. I have therefore taken the initiative that the Ministry is now examining issues related to the practice of adults' rights by the counties. Of course, I would also like to add that adults who believe that they are not being granted their rights have access to complaints, but that should be a last resort. There is no evidence that the economy of county councils is a problem, at least not in this context. The counties themselves report a low number of people on waiting lists for training. However, it is probably a problem that for many applicants with real skills, training is not curtailed even if it is justified. It is not purpose efficient, but neither is it cost-effective, either for the county or for the person concerned. The exchange of real competences for formal competence is a challenge. Norway stands out internationally for the establishment of good systems to this end. Nevertheless, something remains to be realized well in practice. I fully agree with the inter-pellant. In cooperation with a range of county municipalities, Vox has produced a training package in the field of real competence assessment in higher education. I hope such a package can help when the states are going to practise this system. In addition, I have expectations that the new curricula, which will contain clearer objectives of competence, will facilitate real-time work in the field of higher education. I also want to mention that some people don't know about their rights. There are variations between county municipalities that indicate that some counties have been better informed than others. It is important that information is provided through the channels available to adults. Both employment and public services are important here. The Ministry has also - and the Committee is well aware of this since it has been involved in the same and has also taken initiatives - in consultation with the social partners, entrusted the Competence Development Programme with the task of designing and implementing pilot projects based on the tripartite financing of lifelong learning. This can improve participation opportunities for low-skilled people in the labour market. I fully agree with the interpellant that the distinction between adults with and without justice is problematic. Since the establishment of adult law, there has been an increasing lack of initial training group, which has neither youth nor adult law. This is due, inter alia, to: that some young people who have been entitled to secondary education have not exercised their right of access to justice or have entered secondary school and discontinued their education and since they were born after 1978, they do not have the right to secondary education as adults. As a first step, I have sent a proposal to consult that youth rights be extended up to the age of 24. If the proposal is realised, this will be an important step on the way. Such a change would benefit some people born after 1978 who, for various reasons, have not availed themselves of their right to post-reform education 94, or who are interrupting and will come back, etc., and not least immigrants who have come to Norway too late to avail themselves of their youth rights. Finally, let me make a comment on some of what the interpellant said, namely that Norway stands out internationally, that we have good systems for lifelong learning, but that it is not so good in the field of basic education. I'd like to nuance it a little bit, because purely systemically, we're very positive in the area of basic training as well, actually throughout the system. What is Norway's challenge is how we manage to exploit our systems, and here, the interpellant has addressed one topic today: How is competence reform being exploited and practiced? I think a little bit better than maybe the interpellant himself thinks, while in the field of basic training, it's especially about this with learning outcomes, which have received a lot of attention. In the end, I think it is very important not to stare too blindly at what is happening in the formal education system for adults, and in terms of the reform of skills, or in relation to the formal education system. I think it's clear -- it's become more and more clear since the competence reform came -- that there's daily and learning related to practice, learning related to the job you actually have, which is the most effective learning. It is the most important and clearly the most motivating thing for employees. This has been pointed out in particular. LO for many years, but it's getting clearer and clearer. Among other things, we have revealed it quite clearly through the so-called Competence Report, which we received for the first time in 2003, and which comes in a new version quite soon. I think it is very important to stimulate not only the creation of ‘learning’ schools, but a good culture for learning in all businesses and in all workplaces. It will create innovation. It will also make it possible to realise the vision behind the reform of competence in an even better way than we can do by simply looking at what is actually happening to continuing training in the formal education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e133	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I think it is positive that the Government assesses measures and has also initiated measures, including: in relation to youth law. One of the main points of my article is that you will receive an adapted training for the individual adult, such as: chooses to take secondary education. Based on the answer from the Council of State, I understand that she also agrees that there are too few individual offers, i.e. that most of these three years go into regular training. I know that making individual offers costs more, and it also requires a larger organisation. I do not share the assessment that the Council of State has, in view of the fact that this has no connection with the economy and how a thing is doing to organise the entire secondary education at the county level. I think there is a clear link between the resources of the county council and how a thing can be done to create adapted training courses. I am also pleased that the Council of State says something about the problem of this with those who are right, and those who are not right. I think it must be a goal for our nation that we are trying to reach as large a part of the population as possible with the level of competence. That people learn in business is right. There's a lot of learning going on there, but at the same time not reaching such a learning people who go unemployed. Driving a conscious commitment to the training and education of the unemployed I think will be an important social investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e144	Just three brief comments. It is nice that the interpellant also thinks it is positive that we have proposed extending youth law. I must honestly say that you would immediately think that the easiest thing was just to remove this distinction. The reason why we move a little bit more slowly is that we also want young people to be motivated to complete their training, and that there should be motivation and incentives to do so at a relatively early age. And that makes us a little bit careful. So to the second, adapted training: As I said, it is said in an investigation that approx. 84 pst. adults receive an offer tailored to adults. What I think is the most difficult adjustment problem, is curtailment. That's because we're not good enough at real estate assessment. This applies not only to higher education, but also to higher education. Here, I think it is a great potential for improvement in the field of competence reform. If this has something to do with economics -- we can't rule out that in some cases you don't get enough for individualised training, because it's too demanding also for economics -- you can say that it's financial resources to get better at shortening. It's not cost-effective to let people who don't need it go on full-time education. Here I think there is a great potential for improvement. That's why we're now monitoring the practice in the states, and seeing if we can improve each other -- because there's no one here that's perfect -- and get to this assessment better. Then I fully agree with the inter-pellant that the work that is now taking place in Norway to improve the interaction between work and social security - in order for people to preferably get to work, if possible, and not go to social security - must also relate to their skills. Where skills are needed to get to work quickly, it is important that we use this tool. There are examples of that. But what I can say here is that we have a good cooperation with the Minister of Labour in what is now happening in terms of work and social security, so that also competences become an important part here. It can often be an important tool to move from passivity to activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e157	I think it is good that adult training is put on the agenda, because it has been easy to drown in all discussions about basic and higher education. I am absolutely sure that everyone agrees initially, that adult education is important both for individuals and for society, and that we should particularly reach them with low formal competence. I would also like to emphasise first of all some of the points made by the representative of Skjärlaaen in his studies and results. It turns out that we have had good results in terms of formal rights, among other things, and many good projects in the workplace. But there are relatively few who use these rights, and there are a number of reasons. There may be information, motivation, stimulation, but in particular there are two points, which relate to time and economics. So it becomes a personal responsibility for the employee or perhaps the employer to get this done. Our responsibility here in Stortinget is to make sure to follow up formal rights with the economy. It's our special responsibility. Reporting suggests that the counties are not financially able to provide opportunities for all those entitled to adult education today. I heard that the council said they had had a review, but now, in the follow-up at the end here, she said they still have a screening going on. I do not think as there has been a very large development in relation to a question I had to the Council of State a year ago, where I pointed out the same thing when it comes to reporting from the counties. The same applies to the costs of real estate assessment. The size has asked the Council of State to consider providing funds to the counties in order to take on the task of increasing the number of real-life assessments. In terms of time and economics, we believe that testing of life-long models is important, and the Storting has asked for it to be carried out. We in the Workers' Party are also positive in investigating and changing the right to adult education from year of birth to age, and await proposals from the Council of State. The government has talked about a new strategy for competence policy with emphasis on adult education at work. We think it's important, and here I think the parties will follow up. I would like to stress that it must not mean disclaimer from the central authorities in terms of costs. Why am I a little pessimistic? Well, because the government has downgraded almost all adult education records in budgets in recent years. In the final balancing here in Stortinget, the government parties and the Progress Party went in to cut almost half of the Competence Development Programme, which was to be used just for test models for support for living. It's not enough to want, one must also have the ability to follow up with resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e170	Last harvest treated Odelstinget Innst. O. No 1 for 2004-2005 on amendments to the Law on Secondary Education. One of the issues discussed in this context was issues related to education for adults with a right to secondary education and unaccompanied adults. The setting indicates that the Ministry has started a review of adults’ right to secondary education. That review was otherwise also announced in St. gemeld. No 30 for 2003-2004. It shows that this is a question that both the government parties and the state council are concerned about, and that the work on the assessments that interpellant demand has started is therefore confirmed by the Council of State. In the same setting, a department also asks the Stortinget to come back to the Stortinget with a case on this issue. Thus, the size will have a rich opportunity to discuss the issue of adult and advanced education, whether they are right or not. Also in the debate in June last year in connection with the Innst. S. No 197 for 2003-2004 on the revitalisation of the reform of competence, we discussed a number of the points addressed by the interpellant. The debate at that time showed that there was a strong consensus that adults must be given a real opportunity to increase their competence in areas where skills are lacking. The Ministry announced in this context that a long-term strategy plan for competence policy would be drawn up by 2010. This strategy approach is important in order to develop a comprehensive policy to provide the most desirable opportunities for adults, so that they have a real opportunity to increase their skills - not least within those groups that have so far become the most vulnerable. It was also recommended that experiments were started on different models, and I am pleased that the Council of State now confirms that such different models should be tested. The county has a special responsibility to facilitate the conditions of adults who want to receive secondary education, and it is correct that there is a wide variation between counties and counties in how conditions are facilitated. At least the variation goes not only on economics but also on information and on how successful the concrete organization has been. Some municipalities were not particularly well prepared for the measures either. It has also been shown that where the county municipality has been willing and has the power to have good cooperation with study associations, distance learning institutions or other private providers, the results have been successful. These private providers are important actors, and therefore Stortinget has asked for a new review of the Adult Education Act also in the case of study associations. It is an important matter the interpellant takes up, and it is important that it is kept warm. Both the response of the Council of State today and the debates I have shown show that this is an area that is being followed up and that will be followed up. The issue to be dealt with by the Stortinget following the examination by the Ministry of the right of adults to secondary education is therefore exciting. It will be an important matter, and I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e181	It's true that a well-educated population is a competitive advantage. It is important that we focus on knowledge and competence for the whole population. There is reason to stress that the responsibility for this lies with the public, and by that we also mean the responsibility for funding. In our view, it would be unreasonable to have a distinction between adults and adults without the right to initial training. We want equal treatment and right for all adults who lack basic training. It must be a national task to fill out what is missing. Let me say two words about economics, because it's more of a concern. We believe, regardless of the issue of both those who are entitled and those who are not entitled, that the funding system should be changed to a single price-based system, which will be cost-effective and offer-effective. We therefore believe that this should be done regardless of what the majority of people are doing in terms of extending their rights or including everyone in a right. The Party of Advances refers to the treatment of Ot. pp. No 64 for 2003-2004 and, like previous speakers, for Innst. O. No 1 for 2004-2005, where reference is made to ongoing work. It would have been okay to get some signals from the State Council when we can get the matter to Stortinget. So all parties, with the exception of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, concluded on whether the wording related to the work that has already been started was also part of it. Back to the treatment of Ot. pp. No Sixty-four. Another important point was the extension of the law to secondary schools. What was problematic about adult access to independent secondary schools was that private schools that were already approved with government grants were allowed to continue with their offer to adults who are not entitled. It was ensured in that case, and it is good. At the same time, there is reason to ask questions about how much experimentation we need, when we have a well-functioning offer from private actors who have run for a long time. They have a well-functioning offer aimed at those who are asking for an adapted scheme for adults, i.e. those who have missed the Youth Guarantee, but who want to gain better skills to get back to work and be cared for on their own. They are then given a good opportunity through the private actors. We can further develop this by changing the funding, so that the money follows the students and is not added to county priorities or county budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e194	Figures from the Central Statistical Office show that Norwegian labour force has a high productivity. We're on top international. I think it is only in Ireland that there has been a stronger development than the situation in Norway. That's something we forget. The reason why that's the case is probably a lot, but one reason is quite clear that we have a highly educated population. This gives the Norwegian labour force a competitive advantage, which is crucial if we are to be able to develop and exploit at all times. In this context, the reform of competence becomes a reform for the adult population, as we hoped it would be. We had hoped that the first decade after 2000 would become the decade of adult education, precisely to ensure such a advantage, but also, of course, to give adults an opportunity that they had not previously had, to have a good self-development and the ability to function even better in a society where competence and education are important. I'm sure we haven't completely succeeded in the reform of competence. Previously referred to Document No. The 8 we tried with a revitalization. I hope we get to the part that goes on tripartite financing, where the social partners together with the public will help finance the continuing training that businesses and individuals need. But what goes on in the right bit, that is, adults are entitled to primary school, adults are entitled to secondary school, we probably haven't succeeded either, and I think that's because of the county economy. We know that a certain proportion of the population has not been given the opportunity for secondary education. We know that. We have numbers on all of this. In its time, calculations were made by the Buer Committee, which revealed a huge number. I don't think it's that big, but there's a need, it's quite obvious. I believe that the reason why this has not been implemented, that these adults have not had the opportunity to do so, is because of the poor economy of the county. Then I think it's important, what SV has proposed, namely, to label state funds -- we're not very happy with earring, let me stress it -- so that we can reveal the need through earring. Once the need has been revealed, these funds are to be included in the general grant to the county councils. But we have to discover the need to see what this is. I think we can do that by earmarking funds. I hope that those parties that are now very positive will be involved in earmarking some funds for the reform of competence, for those adults who are entitled to higher education, in order to discover the need. Next time, we're going to transfer it to the framework grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e203	Through the interpellation text, I felt that an important issue for the interpellant was at least to point to the county economy and the importance of it for adapted training for adults. From that point of view, I would like to say that it is also a challenge for state policy to have a perspective for higher education in relation to the fact that having skilled labour is an important enterprise policy initiative. Building competences in the region is important for regional development. In several counties, it is also thought to be in secondary school as a regional development actor. It opens up a slightly different approach to funding higher education in the counties. It is then clear that food can also be used in training. Here, I think the traditional school thinking in relation to adult education should be challenged regionally a little bit more than what we have so far. Further training is important. We have a greater need for a changing working life. That's said, and I think there's also a lot going on in the workplace, as the Council of State has pointed out. Here I agree. I think it's a challenge, if we're going to succeed here, to achieve greater cooperation in the field of higher education and the measures taking place in the labour market, and in the direction of their systems. Competence development is also important in public conversion. This means that when funds are put at the disposal of business conversion, funds must be put in place that can be used to develop skills. Of course, the challenge of high school will be to ensure that this is linked to real-life assessment and shortening - be good at what the Council of State has pointed out. I think it is gratifying that a Council of State from the Right speaks positively about real competence assessment and curtailment. It is an adjustment of the Right Policy, which has been to keep watch over all formal demands. But I'm glad the Council of State has that perspective. Finally, let me also say that I think extending youth rights can be one solution, but it probably doesn't solve another problem that we have. It is linked to the fact that many craft training takes a certain amount of maturity before they are released. It often becomes a secondary education. I think it's right with extended youth law, but it doesn't solve all the challenges. It shows how problematic it is to draw boundaries with them with and without justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e217	After listening to the Council of State, I was left with three questions. Firstly, the Council of State has an overview of the number of persons per year. have benefited from the right to training? In St. Report. No 42 for 1997-98 it was said that 540,000 adults would be given such a right, and that one assumed that with good organisation, about half would benefit from the possibility. Secondly, does she really think that the economy is not an obstacle? I find reason to remind you that, for example: In the last year’s municipal economic proposal, a specific theme was how county municipalities would be able to finance new coal with ordinary 16-year-olds. Then it's like other supplies come further behind. The county head of training in the Nord-Trøndelag said it to Trønder-Avisa in June: ‘Adults are legally entitled to secondary education, but there is nowhere to say that they are right NOW’. The government recommends that municipalities and county councils benefit from study associations and distance learning. Does that mean that the Council of State, if it thinks it is important, will take the initiative to strengthen these actors? Because it is well a fact that the government has done the opposite year after year, i.e. the contribution to the Association of Students alone has been reduced by 40 pst over three years. Thirdly, do people know their rights? As the Council of State stated, Vox has shown in its own investigation that a large part is not aware of the possibility that lies there, and that it is particularly true of those who have the least education in the past. Let me then remind you of the many people who are behind the study federations and the peculiar officials who are there for information and awareness-raising. So through the organizations that are connected to these associations, there is a separate contact area that gives extra possibilities. Then the Center Party agrees on everything that has been said here in relation to the fact that strengthening competence is an important societal goal. It's an advantage for the individual, and it's an advantage for the Norwegian community. There is no doubt that many actors are needed, but in fact there is also a need for a department and a government that is aware of it and that is interested in strengthening the possibilities of individual actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e235	I want to give the interpellant credit for addressing a problem that is important to the individual. It is important for the labourless business community, and it is important for those organisations lacking good staff, for adults who do not have formal education to take it and, if necessary, to improve their knowledge in order to enter the labour market to the extent that they are out of work. Having said that, I am somewhat surprised at both criticism of the Government not to take responsibility in this area and the strong statements that come from the fact that someone may not be able to exercise his right, only has its cause in the county economy. As others have pointed out, at first this is not about economics, it is about making a great deal of use of the resources we have, it is about how we are going to organise the offers we want to make, and it is about how the county council as an actor takes over the responsibility it is charged with. Then I must be allowed to say that I deeply disagree with SV and the representative Rikvam, who at all does not believe in local democracy - not in this case either. Is it so that when we from the Storting delegating a jurisdiction and a responsibility to the local democratic level, who constantly says that they want to have more tasks, we shall immediately say from the Stortinget that this we do not believe the tackles, we do not believe the politicians at that level can deal with such a task, because there is only the Storting that knows better? I distance myself from such a kind of thinking in relation to local democracy. I believe that the county council and county politicians are able to take this responsibility. We see that this is organised in different ways, there is a great variation between county municipalities in dealing with this, and there is also a great variation between county municipalities in interacting with the different actors. I also think the representative Sortevik was concerned about an important aspect here: letting other actors get away with - let the thousands of flowers bloom. The fact that the county council is responsible for the organisation does not necessarily mean that the county council is to do the whole job itself. They can leave something to others, whether they're private players or they're working life. As the Council of State also mentioned, perhaps the best form of continuing training for adults is that of learning at the workplace. In fact, many exciting offers are being developed here: online solutions, decentralised solutions, new forms of distribution of education, new forms of real-life assessment. This may also be handled by others, but the county shall be responsible and continue to take this responsibility on behalf of the Stortinget, from which they have been delegated this power.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e248	I would like to thank you for a largely constructive debate in this important area. If I'm going to sum up, everyone has said that it's not just about financial resources, but it's also about it. Furthermore, I experience that people have said that it is important to take advantage of the entire width and spectrum that is on the provider's side. Several representatives have mentioned both the study federations and the distance learning institutions. People have been in agreement on the fact that this is just and not rightly problematic. I think it is positive that an extension of youth law, but I agree with the representative Lyngstad that this does not solve all the problems associated with the reform of competence. So I look forward to the fact that in the future, in the Storting, we will really get to discuss this with justice and not right, and draw the legal consequences of it into a future case. I hope that the Government will come back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e255	Then I just want to finish with three comments. The first is: thank you for the debate! Let's remember that we've now had a debate on the skills problems of the world's highest education-level country, and where the level of education is rising fastest. It's okay to bring it. I do not quite share the idea that you do not see a large demand - and long queues - for offers, can be interpreted as having great needs that are not covered. It may be that there are not so many queues, indicating that a lot is going well. There are some signs of that in the Norwegian economy. We have very high productivity, very high employment, very low unemployment. It may also be that our companies, all possible workplaces, have become better at facilitating daily learning. We are at the heart of what is somehow Norway's challenge. It's not these formal things, or unemployment, or employment, etc., but how we can get innovation and turn our skills into something that gives value creation and then well-being. It is a challenge for all types of organisations. And if that learning takes place in the workplace, there will of course be less need for further filling from the formal education system. That's the one. The second concerns a specific question from the representative Sortevik concerning when Stortinget can expect to have a discussion of this with adults with and without justice, and any proposals related to it. Not to be too precise, I would say that the plan is before Easter. And then point three, to the representative Vidar Bjørnstad: I think maybe I've expressed myself a little bit unclear, so it left the possibility of misunderstandings. He perceived me so that the review I have previously advised on waiting lists in the counties was not yet done. Yes, it is. It showed, as I said in my post, that there is a very low number on waiting lists. So you might say that this little number is important enough for those that apply, and that it might have something to do with economics. I'm not going to be sure of anything else. But then I say that it's pretty important for the states that they start shortening more, because they spend a lot of money that doesn't have to be spent. We have a very liberal practice of adults' right to full education when not needed. The review I said we're doing, and we haven't completed, is another review, namely, a review of the counties in order to improve our real skills assessment, so that we can get more shortening and thus save money. Then maybe we can also deal with the small waiting lists that might be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e270	Then the interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-20.ana.ud87e281	There is no record.
