ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e38	The representatives André Kukkestad and Finn Kristian Marthinsen, who have been licensed, have once again taken up their seats. The designated alternate of the Rogaland County, Olaf Gedrem, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e55	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Ranveig Frøiland and Asmund Kristoffersen. Other proposals are not available, and Ranveig Frøiland and Asmund Kristoffersen are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e65	The representative of Marit Nybakk will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e68	I want to make two private suggestions. On behalf of the representatives of Bendiks H. Arnesen, Grethe Fossli, Kjetil Bjørklund, Marit Arnstad, Per Ove Width, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I have the honour to propose the continued stationing of the 337 Svadron – the Kysthelikopters Quadron – with squadron management at Bardufoss even after the phase-in of the new NH90 helicopters. On behalf of Gunnar Halvorsen, Tore Nordtun, Marit Arnstad and myself, I have the honour to propose initiatives to the business community in Rogaland in order to build a helicopter simulator for NH90 helicopters at Stavanger Airport/Sola Flystation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e77	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e91	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each and the Center Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e102	Winter sports are one of Norway's leading brands abroad. It is not only because we have won many medals in international championships, but also because the population as a whole has a close relationship with outdoors in general and winter sports in particular. The image of Norway as a winter sports nation was broadcast to the world under the Olympic Games at Lillehammer in 1994. Both Norway as a whole and, in particular, the Lillehammer region experienced a strong increase in international attention, although the long-term positive impact on tourism, employment and increased activity may not have been expected by many. Norway has good natural conditions to arrange the Olympics and the Paralympics. These assumptions, combined with a high interest in winter sports in the population, make it natural that Norway takes responsibility over time as a host nation for the Winter Olympics and Paralympics. The International Olympic Committee, the IOC, will decide in July 2007 on the venue for the 2014 Winter Olympic Games. A small majority of Norway’s Sports Association have agreed that Norway should apply for the organisation of the 2014 Winter Olympics and Paralympics with Tromsø as an applicant city. This Decision is subject to the granting of a State guarantee. However, as is known, the Government of the submitted wholesale notification has not recommended the provision of such a State guarantee on this occasion. As the rapporteur, I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee supports the Government's conclusion. Two parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre, have reached the opposite conclusion. These parties have proposed that the Stortinget provide a State guarantee in relation to the application by Tromsø 2014 AS to be awarded the Olympic Winter Games and Paralympics in 2014, corresponding to the total cost of the games. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that by providing a State guarantee, the State must guarantee the gross amount, which means guaranteeing the full implementation of the event. This means that the State is also responsible for any costs that may go beyond the budgeted. The application from Tromsø 2014 AS presents three different budgets, one ‘optimistic’, one ‘realistic’ and one ‘pessimistic’. In the notification submitted, the government takes as its starting point the ‘pessimistic’ cost estimate of the applicant. An event such as the OL has a complexity that makes it difficult to calculate precise costs. At the same time, if the billion-dollar talk is referred to in the budget of Lillehammer-OL, the ‘pessimistic’ cost estimate appears to be a sensible starting point for debate on the real costs of organising the OL. In the application from Tromsø 2014 AS of 2 May 2004, the total cost is estimated at 15,680 million. kr, if necessary, with State grants of more than 9 540 million. kr. The lack and uncertainties of the cost estimates indicate that the application does not provide a complete overview of the total cost of the event or the need for State grants to a possible OL in Tromsø. In this context, I will refer to the following: Expected 415 million to be played. kr is included in the applicant’s income estimate but is not included in the applicant’s estimated need for state grants. Thus, the estimated need for state subsidies is actually 415 million. kr higher than the level of the application.The investment costs of sports facilities are considered to be under-budgeted, inter alia. due to substantial post-use conversion costs.Investment costs of the participating village have not been included in the budget. The village is planned to be built out of private homes and leased into the OL, thus accounting for 600 million. NOK under operating and rental costs. The basis for this implementation, e.g. in the form of an agreement of intent, is not made visible in the application. In annexes to the application, the investment need to realise the village is estimated at 2 500 million. The costs of transport are lower than those of Avinor and Statens vägvesen Region Nord. A significant increase in operating costs must be foreseen in addition to the necessary investments. Increased operating costs have not been taken into account in the applicant’s budget.Safety costs are considered as under-budgets. The cost estimate of the applicant is only a small adjustment of the corresponding costs under Lillehammer-OL in 1994, despite the significant change in the threat picture. It is the government’s view that the factors mentioned here demonstrate that the final cost of an OL event in Tromsø, including the need for state grants and grants of funds, could be significantly higher than that estimated in the application from Tromsø 2014 AS of 2 May 2004. An important prerequisite for recommending a State guarantee is that the event leads to significant and long-term societal gains. The review of the expected effects of the applicant has shown that the estimates presented in the material prepared by and for Tromsø 2014 AS are optimistic and associated with considerable uncertainty. On the basis of these estimates, there are also assumptions about significant public and private use of resources in advance and beyond of the toys that are not adequately taken into account in the application from Tromsø 2014 AS. In addition, experience from Lillehammer suggests that long-term effects should be expected to be sober. There is no doubt that an OL in Tromsø in 2014 could give a significant boost to Norwegian sport. However, when the Christian People's Party chooses to say no to the OL in Tromsø in 2014, it is because the financial burden of an OL is so great that other good purposes will have to be significantly downgraded. The consequence of providing state guarantees will be that there will be less scope for action for other good purposes in the next ten years, especially in the fields of culture and sport. Moreover, it has been a short time since the State took a major financial responsibility for the Winter Olympics at Lillehammer in 1994. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would point out that the primary objective of state sports policy must be to provide a local offer to children and young people. Grants for membership-based sports and grants for the construction of sports facilities are important for the provision of a good sport offer to children and young people. In many municipalities, sport is the main recreational activity for children and young people. Physical activity is also important for the health of children and young people. The consumption of sugary foods is increasing, especially among children and young people. In combination with little physical activity, this lifestyle is harmful to both mental and physical health. That is why the Christian People's Party is concerned that the games that go to sport benefit children and young people as much as possible. The use of gambling funds for an OL in Tromsø will have to entail a corresponding reduction in grants for installations and other sporting purposes in the municipalities. OL will involve substantial investments in sports facilities. It's assumed that a minimum of 22.3 pst. the investment costs of sports facilities will have to be taken from the games for sporting purposes. There are very many local sports facilities. That being said, the application from Tromsø 2014 AS outlines a comprehensive concept that combines important societal considerations such as sustainable development, economic development and universal design with the organisation of a Winter Olympics. Such an overall approach is in line with the Olympic spirit. The vision of the application to ‘create a cross-border and magical sports festival and give the world a moment’ is a good expression of the people’s feast an OL should be. North Norway and Tromsø have both natural and culturally good prerequisites for organizing an OL, and the Christian People's Party believes that Tromsø points out as a current candidate city in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e158	Sports are important. We are well aware of the importance of universal service to health, well-being and well-being, but top-notch sport is also of great importance. It gives us experiences and joy, it gives a society identity and community. And not least: the top-notch stimulates the lithography, which in turn recruits for top-notch sport. I don't think there are a few of those who were maybe ten to twelve years under the Olympics at Lillehammer in 1994, who were inspired by Bjørn Dæhli and others, and who today are giving us new sportsmen on the TV screen or on the arena. At the same time, we know that major sporting events have significant ring-effects. It provides profiling to a place and country; it provides an enormous build of competence in the implementation of project organisation, planning and the actual winding-up. It rusts up travel and the experience industry, and it provides motivation and a gift that lasts for many years. There is a lot of talk about aftereffects, and it's important – the use of arenas, the use of the skills built, etc. But just as important, I think, it's talking about pre-effects: the enormous motivation and giving it means for a place and a part of the country to prepare for and plan and implement such an event. We know that the Olympics at Lillehammer were a huge success. It became a huge flowering for the city. It gave travel life a boost. It's just to go to Hafjell and White Mountain and see what's happened since 1994, you get the answer. It has provided a great build of competences, not least of which the research and higher education community at Lillehammer has benefited. It has simply given a real gift for the city. Now, as we look forward to 2014, 20 years after Lillehammer, it's time for Norway to make a new such uplift. It was perhaps with some wonder and scepticism some of us met the first launch of the project Tromsø 2014. We asked, Is Tromsø big enough? Isn't it a little too far up to Tromsø, not just from Oslo, but from the rest of Europe and the world? Isn't it a little too cold and dark in Tromsø to carry out an OL? But after I got to know the project, I've been enormously impressed. It's a fantastic concept, it's a fantastic project, and in the Workers' Party we are enthusiastic followers of implementing Tromsø 2014. We now hear from those who decide where the Olympics will be, members of the International Olympic Committee and others, that this is a unique project, a different type of OL that will have good chances of winning, and that if Norway is to apply again for an OL, this will be a right project to bet on. Unfortunately, the Minister of Culture does not have the same contagious involvement, not in this field of culture, nor in this project. The announcement from the Government is permeated by a negative attitude to an OL in Tromsø. In each chapter, negative is highlighted. Questions that could easily have been resolved in advance through a simple contact with Tromsø 2014 AS will be suspended in the air as unexplained uncertainties. The Workers' Party is disappointed with the Government's refusal to provide the necessary State guarantee for the OL application from Tromsø 2014 AS. In addition to believing that such a winter Olympic in Tromsø would have been a fantastic sporting and folk festival, we are convinced that the ringing effects, both for the part of the country, for sport and for Norway as a whole, would have been enormous. Tromsø-OL would have been a giant vitamin injection for the entire northern part of the country. Not least, it would be given to loved sports arenas in important sports areas in a part of the country that still lacks part of these arenas. It would have been the definitive inclusion of North Norway in Sports Norway. And can you imagine a better way to start the 2014 anniversary year than to wind up a folk party in Tromsø? It is the definitive image that North Norway, with Tromsø, is an equivalent part of Norway and can carry out major events that are equivalent to those carried out in other parts of the country. Tromsø’s OL plans have created enthusiasm in North Norway. It's a cross-political enthusiasm, not only in Tromsø and Troms, but throughout North Norway. Finnmark and Nordland are equally included. The community has given its support, many municipalities, the National Committee on Culture and Sport, while the industry has supported this enthusiastically. Nevertheless, the government is negative. You talk so nicely that Tromsø can be a good candidate once in the future. But we know that Norway will be on the road, we have to be on the road to 2014. For example, O.L. Ports in Sweden in 2014, we know that there can be many, many years before Norway becomes more up-to-date. Maybe we'll talk about 2026 or 2030 before it can become possible. So I don't think you should throw North Norway and Tromsø blues in your eyes. It's actually that if we don't bet now, it can go very long before Tromsø can get back to date. It is said that the government is sub-budgeting in relation to a number of points, but it is not supported in the message. Here it is the finger up in the air, think of a number and spread uncertainty without saying where the uncertainties lie. Of course, when it comes to planning an event 10 years in advance, the costs of accommodation, contracts with the construction industry, etc. cannot be fully accurately determined, but they are enormously far ahead of Lillehammer-OL at the same time. I think it should have been written in the message, and also that you are impressed by how far you have come in terms of the details of the estimates, and how realistic you are – perhaps unlike what you were at Lillehammer at the same time. It is said that the investment costs of sports facilities have been under-budgeted. It is not supported by any specific details. There is no emphasis on the potential impact of these sports facilities on sport in North Norway. Then you talk about the difficulty of seeing enough accommodation capacity. Then I have to ask, where in the world can you read it out of the project for Tromsø 2014 AS? This is a description of how to cover the accommodation capacity of cruise ships on the port. There are difficulties in making it visible that it can be covered, it is said from the department. It must mean two things: either the lack of cruise ships in the world or the lack of port capacity in Tromsø. It is quite obvious that there is no problem with making this possible. You hit, for example. an OL organiser such as Torino down the boots for having accommodation capacity close to the event. Torino has almost launched a new concept, a public-free OL, where it is very difficult to get to the arena from the city of Turin. This gives you a big constraint on how many people can come. So they say that the participating village is not covered by the development costs. No, but it's kind of done in a different way. The Participant Village is provided by private investors and offered for sale, and then to be rented during the OL days, which the right-hand government should be immensely satisfied with. You talk here about parties that want to sell municipal public buildings, and then rent them back. But when O.L. in Tromsø wants to do the same thing — get a participating village developed and then rent it back during the O.L. days — it's irresponsible, insecure and undecided. Understand the one who can. The most revealing aspect of the notification is transport, roads and aerodromes. It is stated in the message: ‘While arriving Gardermoen had one hour shorter travel time to the OL arenas relative to Fornebu, arriving Bardufoss will have about two hours longer travel time to the arenas relative to Tromsø Airport.’ The journey time – when this was planned, in 1985-1986 – from Gardermoen to Lillehammer was about two and a half hours, and from Fornebu to Lillehammer about three and a half hours. From Bardufoss to Tromsø, it's two hours. So the alternate has an hour and a half shorter travel time than the nearest aerodrome under Lillehammer-OL. But because the difference between the first and second aerodromes is so big, it's used as a negative argument. It's completely incomprehensible that it's possible to argue that way, unless you've decided in advance that you want to say no. The working party is for an OL in Tromsø. We are disappointed in the Government. We'll work for an O.L. in Tromsø in the future, even if the Storting says no. Very much of the state grant goes to sustainable investments that will be beneficial for North Norway and Norway in the future. An OL in Tromsø in 2014 had become a fantastic folk party for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e195	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough and thorough review of the matter. As the rapporteur also pointed out, winter sports are strong in Norway, and we are proud of the traditions we have in this area. Not only are our world-class sports performances, but the Olympics at Lillehammer in 1994 were also of the highest quality. So today we are discussing whether to provide a state guarantee to a new OL in Norway in Tromsø in 2014. There is good reason to give considerable praise to Tromsø 2014 AS and to all those who have contributed to the work on a new OL application. There has been extensive work that has made Tromsø and Nord-Norway's potential very good visible in many ways. There is no doubt that an OL could produce very many good and positive ring-effects for the whole region. North Norway, the coast and the whole country will be able to benefit from the attention of a sport event of this type. Both the tourism industry, the export industry and industry have pointed to the potential for increased demand and a positive recovery. It has also been raised beyond any doubt that an OL will leave behind new and improved infrastructure in the form of new arenas and sports facilities, better roads and communication in general, and that this is something the whole region could benefit from. However, when the Right does not find it possible to recommend granting a State guarantee to Tromsø-OL in 2014, there are several reasons for this. It is a prerequisite for a State guarantee to cover all the costs necessary to implement the Winter Olympics and Paralympics. In the application from Tromsø 2014 AS of 2 May 2004, the total cost is estimated at DKK 15.7 billion, with the need for government grants of approx. DKK 9.5 billion. The main message points out from the Government that there is considerable uncertainty about the estimated costs. And regardless of whether you choose to put your trust in the pessimistic, realistic or optimistic budget, one will have to count, as an absolute minimum, almost $10 billion in government costs. A State guarantee for the application from Tromsø 2014 AS will entail State costs that are likely to have to go at the expense of other societal purposes, including in the cultural field. The Olympic Winter Games are arranged in Norway twice before. As one of the world’s leading winter sports nations, it is not unnatural for Norway to take responsibility over time as a host nation for the Winter Olympics and Paralympics. However, the right-hand side shares the government’s view that it cannot be considered reasonable for Norway to incur as much costs as an OL in Tromsø would entail, so soon after Lillehammer-OL. I would nevertheless like to stress that Tromsø 2014 AS has submitted a very good application, which describes an OL event that is very special in its nature and will take place in a very special environment. This makes Tromsø a very current candidate city in connection with a new, future OL in Norway. The right agrees with the Government’s proposal not to provide a state guarantee for the application from Tromsø 2014 AS to arrange the 2014 Winter Olympics and Paralympics.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e212	OL in Tromsø started in 2014 as a political idea, born by Arbeiderpartiet and SV. It was not a claim from sport, but it came as an idea from these two parties ruling in Tromsø, which has a majority. What I'm going to praise them for was the good media strategy you had when you gave birth to this idea up on the Mountain Heath in Tromsø, where you got both local media and national media with you on this and managed to avoid questions about economics. When you finished presenting the project on the Mountain Elevator, you went straight to Ølhallen in Tromsø, and you stayed there for a very long time. It is clear that having a good media strategy also led to a lack of discomfort by having a searchlight on some of the other challenges that the political leadership in Tromsø is responsible for. At the same time as an O.L. in Tromsø was called for, forty sick homes were to be laid down. It was avoided to focus on the fact that Tromsø probably has about an Olympic record in debt per year. the population. The debt is about NOK 3 billion. Many, many swimming pools are empty. You have a school that is in severe decline. But the positive thing for the management in the municipality of Tromsø is that you have built a town hall for nearly $1 billion for yourself and their employees. So far the media strategy was good, but the realities are terrible. Then the sports board was then brought to trial for this matter. I guess it started with Kjell O. Kran took it up in the sports board in January 2004. Now, I guess it wasn't economics Kjell O. The crane's strong side, so they went in for it eventually. It is clear, as has been mentioned earlier, that an OL in Tromsø has enormous economic uncertainties. You can only look at Lillehammer, which started at NOK 1.5 billion and stopped at approximately NOK 11 billion. Because when you give a state guarantee, you can't be specific about the amount. If you give a state guarantee, you're sold. Has Stortinget first given a clear signal for a guarantee, the snowball has begun rolling, and it can roll straight into the trailer. Just to illustrate: in January 2004, the estimate was NOK 6.3 billion in State guarantee. Four months later, the estimate had increased to NOK 8.3 billion, an increase of 30 pst. in four months. Should it still have, the bill would have become formidable. But it illustrates that there is a considerable uncertainty, and a very bad job has been done in terms of the application and the economy. For the economic project was run by the political leadership in Tromsø, and after that they made with the Workers' Party's song artist Tove Karoline Knutsen and the then director of TFTS, a company that is otherwise quite easily economical. That director is not the head of the company today because of financial management. Now it's going to be like saying that an OL in Tromsø will have positive ring-effects for the region. I'm a little bit in doubt that it'll be a boost for the whole part of the country, as some have said. It started with good promises for the whole part of the country: Alta would get a short track, Bodø would get ice hockey matches, Vadsø would get an art race and Storfjord would get a bob, etc., etc. But this IOC said no. This was supposed to be compact toys, everything was supposed to be in Tromsø. Tromsø is a city with growing pain today. You have a transfer from the districts to Tromsø, you have housing prices on the level of what you can find in Oslo, and you have poor services in the municipality. Obviously, an O.L. in Tromsø would only enhance that effect. One would get a vacuuming of the districts and get increased immigration to Tromsø. If it benefits the continent, I'm seriously in doubt about it. If Gryllefjord, Mehamn and Vestvåg wanted an effect of a compact OL in Tromsø in 2014, I doubt. If you look at the previously arranged OL, you haven't done that experience that way. In addition, the OL in Tromsø would paralyze the construction of other necessary objectives. The construction of kindergartens, schools and hospitals would be paralyzed. It would mean a ban on construction and sharing in this period, simply because you would have to concentrate all the capacity against an OL in Tromsø. You would also not be able to plan until you were sure to get an OL in Tromsø. We are not in the Progress Party who say that. I now refer to it as the head of planning and nutrition in Tromsø, Jan Einar Reiersen, has said in that very matter. Should a lot of people come to Tromsø, there would of course also be significant problems in terms of logistics, which is not well cared for. As far as this is concerned with the enormous ringing effects, I must be allowed to quote Professor Olav Spilling at BI. He's looked a little bit at what happened around Lillehammer-OL, and he says, the OL effect for Lillehammer was good just before, under and just after the OL. The ringing effects for Hamar and Gjøvik were very modest. It shows that an OL does not represent a promise, as many believe – or as many want to believe, to put it. An O.L. in Tromsø would be an economic asset. It would also reduce the scope of action for other good purposes over the next ten years. There would be a use of toys that would reduce funds for installations in municipalities and for other sporting purposes. So it's a fact that it's pretty short time since the last OL we had at Lillehammer, considering that this is going to roll at year intervals. And you haven't taken over the real cost. There's a lot I could imagine betting on in North Norway. It's right to bet in North Norway, but it's not right to bet on a giant event and a folk party in Tromsø in 2014, because it's a folk party in Tromsø all year round, at least every weekend, for those who want to go there, and that could be interesting. Trond Giske said there was a cross-political agreement on an O.L. in Tromsø. I just have to remind you that consensus isn't that big. We know the Center Party is going in today to give this state guarantee, but the Center Party in Tromsø is against it. We know that SV in Tromsø is for an OL, while SV in Stortinget is against. So it's not entirely related. If you're going to bet on North Norway, and you're going to do that, you should bet within what's natural for North Norway. It'll be oil and gas business, it'll be breeding, it'll be transportation, and it'll be racial protection, just to take some cases. So the other parties vote for our proposals the times we propose it in the Stortinget. It's not to bet on North Norway. And now when the Center Party and the Workers' Party are betting on North Norway, they're doing it on completely wrong premises. In conclusion, it is not that we are opposed to sport. I have a personal wish, and it's actually maybe arranging a bike World Cup in North Norway. Cycling I think is interesting. At least you got asphalted some of the roads you have up there that need it. And then you could have had a northern Norwegian version of the Tour de France, and you would have got a good road standard more places than just in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e244	First, I would like to stress that we in the Socialist Left Party think it is an exciting idea to have a spectacular OL party in Tromsø. This is a visionary grip to put North Norway and the coast on the map. After all, this is the world's largest winter sports event. We won't in any way reject an OL in Tromsø at any later time. Now, on the other hand, we think it's coming too fast after the OL on Lillehammer, and there's too much uncertainty about the economic part of the application. So it's expensive – and it's unpredictable. Experience tells us that such projects often become more expensive than you first thought, and this is an event that is largely dependent on state resources. Then we hear that there is talk of all the positive ringing effects of an OL in Tromsø, and such an arrangement will undoubtedly mean a lot to the area both in front of and under the OL and also in the years after. Unfortunately, we in SV do not believe that the ringing effects are significant enough in relation to the costs involved in facilitating the event. At the same time, we think it's right to ask if such sums of money are involved, this time should be used in other ways. The very requirement for compact toys will in itself limit the ring-effects in a very long-term part of the country. It is close to 2,000 km from Brønnøysund to Kirkenes. Nor should we forget that Tromsø is already a press area with very high population growth. We in SV will bet on North Norway regardless of whether or not to arrange the Olympics there. In these days, we are developing a growth plan for North Norway where we are taking the initiative in a bet that will mean more for the country than Olympic games in the largest city will do. The plan, to be presented at the end of May, i.e. in just over a month's time, will contain concrete proposals for focusing on industrial development, education, research and employment in the region. Without breaking up too much of the plan, I can give you some examples: North Norway is, as we all know, incredibly rich in resources and opportunities. That's in itself a good starting point for not just stopping, but turning the motion current. Of course, we must invest in fishing, but also in tourism in the world's most beautiful nature, in research and technology development, not least in green energy, wind, tides, environmental technologies and knowledge in industry, and on broadband, and we will have explored the railways to Tromsø and from the Churches to Russia. These will be key elements of our North Norway growth plan. Culture, art, education, research and development, business activities and not least their combination are key elements of this plan. The price of a Winter Olympics in Tromsø will amount to over 10 billion kroner. The Socialist Left Party will use at least the same sum on our growth plan for North Norway. We believe that the money is now better spent this way. This will have consequences that are more predictable and long-term and will have positive effects for far larger areas than the Tromsø region. People all over North Norway need to get their faith back on an exciting future in the continent. What can we not get if Norway, instead of investing in the OL and oil, invests some of the billions in a North Norway-wide development plan until 2014? However, I would like to emphasise again that we are not fundamental opponents of getting a new Olympic event here to the country. Most of us remember at the party at Lillehammer with joy, and we are clear that any new OL should be added to Tromsø. The Sports Association and the Norwegian Olympic Committee have expressed their positive opinion on the application and have said that they regard Tromsø as the best Norwegian candidate. SV believes that we will have the greatest positive ringing effects of an OL if it is arranged in North Norway. We therefore see Tromsø as a natural Norwegian candidate if Norway is to reapply for the Winter Olympics. SV will assess an application on a later occasion with a positive starting point. The background to our skepticism now is also that there are many difficulties and great uncertainties associated with the project. As I said, costs will be very high, both for the state and for others. The re-use of the installations is e.g. one of the fields where Lillehammer-OL cannot be considered a success. SV does not believe that Norway should for that reason refrain from organising the OL, but we believe that strict requirements should be imposed to assess the economic, ring-fence and alternative use of the funds it costs us. A Winter Olympics in Tromsø will also take a large part of the games that are set aside for sports purposes. This will mean that other sports facilities throughout the country have to wait or will not be built. Reduced grants to sports organisations and, in general, for sport are other consequences. It will clearly mean that children and young people in other parts of the country may lose their swimming pool in favour of OL facilities in Tromsø. I am absolutely sure that the initiators behind an OL in Tromsø are quite right that this could be an event the world has never seen before. The location itself is good enough to see this. I am also quite sure that this could give a boost to the continent and positive effects beyond the event itself. I have a great deal of understanding of the disappointment many in Tromsø feel that we do not support the application for state guarantee in this round. But we want to invite the rest of the Stortinget to join the SV growth plan for North Norway. We believe this should give North Norway more and stronger legs to stand on. Unfortunately, we don't think an OL can give the same effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e266	The centre party is keenly concerned that we should have a new Winter Olympics in Norway and that the toys should be arranged in North Norway. The coast and the Arctic surroundings will provide a unique framework for the games, and it will certainly be well done if Tromsø is to be able to be bypassed as an OL candidate. The sport has decided to apply for the OL in Tromsø. A fascinating concept has been presented from Tromsø in 2014, and I want to use this opportunity to underline the following: the realization of the games in Tromsø should not be at the Center Party. We are enthusiastic followers of this project, and whether it was going to be 2014, or whether it was going to be 2018, is not the most important thing. The important thing is that we get OL to Tromsø. I think it's spectacular to sit and listen to all those who are talking here about how great this concept is. Yes, they want OL to Norway, and they want to go to Tromsø — in the long run. But there's no willingness to give any indication of what 'in the long term' is, and then you might not use such large and flaming words. If we're going to succeed in getting the OL to Tromsø, it's essential that you have a broad opening up to the project. And you certainly do, in the sense that this is support from the three northernmost counties, from the County Council and from the Sametinge. 22 municipalities in North Norway have all expressed their support. Tromsø 2014 has support from cultural life and from a large number of enterprises, and sport in the national and regional sectors is also a priority. With such a massive uproar, it is incredible, I believe, that the Government has not backed up, and has helped to give a majority for the necessary state guarantee. Not only has the government been lukewarm in this matter, they have been looking for problems. That's what we see when we read the big message. Instead of agreeing to invitations for cooperation on the project, the Government, through its implemented negative attitude to the big news, has tried to choke the enthusiasm, creativity and willingness that Tromsø 2014 has shown. Fortunately, they have not succeeded in this. In Tromsø one still has the belief that the Olympic fire will be lit, and we encourage them on the strongest to stand on. Why is the Center Party so busy getting OL to Tromsø? Well, there are a number of good reasons for this, both sports policy, cultural policy, business policy and district policy. Not only will the Olympics in Tromsø become a spectacular sports festival in the Arctic environment, it will also mean new opportunities for further development, both in Tromsø and in the rest of North Norway. It is, in our opinion, irrevocably defensive by the Government not to bet on this project. It is irretrievably defensive on behalf of the national community not to bet on this project. The government prefers to focus on the costs and uncertainties of the project. Yes, in the short term, there is considerable expenditure related to this, but we also need to be willing to look at the income side in the long term. And I have to say that I am reacting irrevocably strongly when the Progress Party is trying to manufacture the OL in Tromsø as a 14-day party that we're going to spend 10 billion kroner on. This is about the long-term willingness to invest in a part of the country, and it is about the willingness to invest in developing the touristic part of the country – it will also benefit the whole country. It is about willingness to upgrade transport in the region, about being willing to upgrade sports facilities in the region. This is about giving cultural life in North Norway a great opportunity to show what they're good for – and that's a lot. We are inexorably disappointed that the majority in this room do not see the possibilities that it gives North Norway as a part of the country, and that it gives Norway as a nation, to arrange the O.L. in Tromsø. We hope that neither sport nor Tromsø 2014 give up, based on what is happening in this room today, but that there is still the will to stand on the way forward. And I can guarantee that the Center Party will be on to secure the O.L. to Tromsø as quickly as possible. And since the representative did not include the Workers' Party and the Central Party's joint proposal in the vote, I'm going to have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e294	The representative of Åslaug Haga has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e297	We in the Coastal Party believe it is very important to go seriously in order to get the Olympics to Tromsø in 2014. With such an application, the detailed preparation of the case follows, and we are of course in favour of funding for this. OL in Tromsø in 2014 will put not only Norway, but North Norway and the whole North Calote on the Scissors map – all over the world. It's an enormous opportunity to present the enormous resources and the enormous possibilities this part of the country and this part of the world has to offer. If an application from Tromsø 2014 AS is to be promoted for the IOC, the costs of finalising an application and promoting Tromsø’s candidacy are estimated at a minimum of 75 million. kr. Any State guarantee for the application from Tromsø 2014 AS must include all the costs necessary for the implementation of the event and may not be specific to the IOC. The application estimates the total cost of 15,680 million. kr, with a State grant of 9 540 million required. kr, exclusive use of musical instruments. I believe that the Storting must go in to support the application and provide this guarantee, and regret that the Government rejects this enormous opportunity to present North Norway as the significant part of the country it can be in the future. It is not visionary to say no to support the OL in Tromsø in 2014. The application from Tromsø 2014 AS emphasises that any OL event should be slightly more than a sporting event: ‘OL in Tromsø will be the city of a complete concept, where vision and values are to characterise the whole.’ The application has six focus areas with objectives: sport, culture, peace, arctic nature and environment, compact event, and value creation and development. The Ministry considers it positive that the applicant has emphasised an overall concept that combines important societal considerations in the application for the organisation of Olympic games. For the past 30 years, Tromsø has undergone a tremendous transformation. Today, the city is a well-known university city, with languages, medicine and marine research as central research areas. The focus is on the region, because North Norway has the most valuable fishing resources in the world, has huge oil and gas deposits and is spending a great deal to expand the region with scientific expertise. It's important to see this. It is equally important to have the Nordkalote and Nord-Norway marked in a winter sports context. Norway is a winter sports country, and I mean the whole of Norway. Vegard Ulvang did not come from South Norway, nor did Bjørn Wirkola. I have no concerns about supporting an application for guarantees to work for the OL in Tromsø in 2014. It is a great opportunity to show that the northern part of the country is too much of the future and the future-optimism of Norway, whether in business, research, culture or sport. In this context, I sincerely hope that politicians from other parts of the country also support this application. Something else can easily be seen as an attempt, a new attempt, to see North Norway as a kind of colony in Norway. There is the wrong focus in a forward-looking development of Norway. I have also registered that the Workers' Party has had a national meeting, and SV has had its national meeting. They have joined the Coastal Party policy in the area of selling Norway bit by bit. The coastal party remains opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e327	On 12 November 2004 St.meld. No 7, The submission of a State guarantee in connection with the application from Tromsø 2014 AS to be awarded to the Olympic Winter Games and Paralympics in 2014 was made. The conclusion of the message and the Government's recommendation to Stortinget is that no state guarantee is given for the application from Tromsø 2014 AS. In the following, I will present the background to the Government's assessment in this matter. Only the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee, NIF, can formally apply for the organisation of Olympic Games in Norway. A search location therefore needs support from the NEF board. In addition, the International Olympic Committee, the IOC, requires a number of guarantees from the tracker, including: financial guarantees for all costs necessary for the implementation of the arrangement. In Norway, in practice, only the country can provide the necessary financial guarantees. After both Lillehammer and Tromsø reported in 2003 that they were interested in applying for the OL in 2014, NIF set up an evaluation team to evaluate the applications. On the basis of the conclusions of this group, on 6 January 2004, the Board of Sport decided to request Norway to apply for the organisation of the Olympic Games in 2014, with Tromsø as a seeker’s city. The recommendation was made at the request of Tromsø to deepen and improve the application in four key areas, namely the timing of the games, accommodation, transport and post-use of facilities. A new application from Tromsø 2014 AS was received before 2 May 2004, and was processed in a meeting of the Sports Board on 27 May. With seven against five voices, the Sports Board decided again to request Norway to apply for the Olympics in 2014, with Tromsø as a seeker city. The case was then sent from the NIF to the Ministry of Culture and the Church for further handling, with reference to the IOC's claims for state guarantee. As stated in the Storing Communication, the Government’s conclusion is based on the following four main points: 1. total costs2. the use and prioritisation of gambling agents3. expected effect of the event4. the chances of the application being made; It's not possible to go into all of these relationships within the time I have at my disposal. I would therefore like to focus on points 1 and 2 – costs and use of gambling equipment. Initial costs: As the starting point for the review was to assess whether the Government could afford to provide a state guarantee for the application, it is in the nature of the matter that costs are entirely central. It has been important to assess the extent to which the estimates in the application seem reasonable and thus provide a realistic picture of the size of any state guarantee. The reason for this is that any government guarantee cannot be associated with a specific amount; it cannot be limited to an estimate from the seeker or government. To provide a State guarantee means to guarantee all the costs necessary for the implementation of the arrangement. The first decision of the sports council, on 6 January 2004, was based on a total cost framework for the Olympic Games in Tromsø of DKK 13,26 billion, with the need for state subsidies estimated at approximately DKK 6,3 billion. The new application of 2 May contains three budgets, namely ‘optimistic’, ‘realistic’ and ‘pessimistic’. The decision of the Sport Board on 27 May 2004 is based on the ‘pessimistic’ budget. The total cost range here is approximately DKK 15.7 billion, with the need for state subsidies estimated at approx. €9.5 billion The major changes in the budget estimates from January to May 2004 can be seen as a natural development in the preparation of an application. At the same time, the changes reveal the uncertainty that will characterize all attempts to calculate the costs and revenues of an OL ten years in advance. In the application of 2 May, this uncertainty is made apparent by the three different budgetary options. This is positive, but it is not reliable that it is essentially the income report that varies in the different budgets. When costs are incurred, only operating and leasing costs vary. This means that there is no significant height of uncertainty in the investment estimates, e.g. for the construction and development of infrastructure. The government doubts whether the cost estimates in the application, even on the basis of the ‘pessimistic’ option, provide a good enough overview of the total costs to be taken into account at any OL in Tromsø in 2014. The reasons for this assessment include: following moments: The investment costs of the participating village are not included in the investment budget of the application. The village is built by private contractors and rented to the OL. It's just added up to 600 million. kr in the budget for operating and leasing costs, but it appears from the annexes to the application that the investment costs are estimated at DKK 2,5 billion. This poses a risk for additional State costs. Then it's the investment costs of sports facilities, which are considered under-budgets, etc. because of post-use plans which will involve significant conversion costs. Transport costs may also be under-budgeted. Assessments by Avinor and Statens vägvesen Region Nord form the basis for the searcher’s estimate of the cost of investments in infrastructure such as airport and road. However, the indication of additional operating costs from the designated etatons is not taken into account in the budget of Tromsø 2014 AS. Then there is the budgeted cost of insurance measures, which means only a minor upgrading compared to the same items for Lillehammer-OL in 1994. Especially in view of the changes in the threat picture in recent years, the Government assumes that the cost of security measures by a possible OL in Tromsø in 2014 will have to be significantly higher than the cost of the application. Overall, this shows that the total cost of any event could be significantly higher than DKK 15.7 billion, with an additional need for state subsidies. Any OL in Tromsø will involve substantial investments in sports facilities that are not adapted to local and regional needs outside the event. An OL is initially a sports event. Consequently, sport must contribute financially to any new event in Norway. The government has assumed that a minimum of 22,3 pst. the costs of investment in sports facilities must be incurred by means of sports media. This is the same thing that was used for Lillehammer-OL, and it's about 430 million. kr, based on the estimate of costs from Tromsø 2014 AS. The requirement that sport should contribute with the same relative share as at Lillehammer-OL means that the use of gambling funds could go beyond this amount as a consequence of increased installation costs. The basic objective of state sport policy is to provide a local supply to children and young people through grants for activities within member-based sport and through grants to civil engineering. Using a OL in Tromsø will result in a corresponding reduction of supplements for other sports purposes. The government's assessment is that an OL in Tromsø will not be a suitable tool to meet key sporting policy objectives. In a case of providing a guarantee of such a large amount, as I have done well, it must naturally be focused on the uncertain elements, so that the possible amount of warranty liability can be clearly identified. However, the government has seen the positive aspects of both application and local and regional involvement in the matter. However, our conclusion from a holistic assessment is clear: The government cannot afford to provide state guarantees in connection with the application from Tromsø 2014 AS to be awarded the Olympic Winter Games and Paralympics in 2014. Winter Olympics have been arranged in Norway twice before, and we generally have a strong position as a winter sports nation. It is, of course, not unnatural that Norway has ambitions to accept responsibility as a host nation again. It also means the government. But the time between Lillehammer-OL and any OL in Tromsø is still only 20 years, and the government doesn't think it reasonable that Norway should take on the large costs an OL in Tromsø will involve, so soon after Lillehammer-OL. A lot has been said today from the pulpit about enthusiasm, glow and engagement in North Norway for this sporting event – and a lot about the application is good. It has also been criticised that we, who refuse to provide a guarantee, have said that we are positive to part of what is in the application. I actually mean that if we hadn't seen much of the positive engagement in the application, we would have been blind. It's clear that there's a lot of good there. From the government's side, I would like to stress that it's natural for Norway in the future to seek to get the Winter Olympics, but how often we're going to do it has been a moment for us that led us to say no in this round. Next time Norway is going to search for OL, I hope it's Tromsø that is the seeker's town – or at least that the seeker's town is in North Norway. I think that in many ways North Norway has a lot to offer that other parts of the world don't have. But at the same time, this costs so much that of course it will go down on other things. So it's a question of how often we can have the OL. Thus, we stand by the conclusion that we do not provide a guarantee, but nevertheless see a great deal of positive with the commitment that has been there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e390	I have very great difficulties in understanding the context of the Government's argument, when, on the one hand, one uses as the main argument against OL in Tromsø that it is too expensive, and that the costs are associated with too much uncertainty, but at the same time talks about being completely open to having OL once in the future. Is there any reason why it should be cheaper once in the future, or is there any reason to believe that an OL will have greater certainty in terms of cost estimates in the longer term? It must necessarily be such that there is uncertainty as to the costs. What's most regrettable about the message is that you haven't more clearly explained the uncertainty and the kind of thing before you get to the Stortinget. They say you did it the same way in 1984-85, but on the contrary, in St.prp. No 85 for 1984-85 it says that the municipality has been in contact with Lillehammer on both the distribution of responsibilities and other questions. The Council of State should have had that, too. My question is, why haven't you clarified these things in a dialogue with Tromsø in 2014? It was also very clear in the committee hearing that this type of contact had not been present.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e397	The representative Gisk doesn't understand the context that we might say yes to an OL in the future, and says no now, because it might be cheaper once in the future – I understand that he doesn't understand. But it's obvious that if we were to have such costs every four years or every ten years, there would be a lot for the nation. If we have that every twenty years, it's also going to be a lot for a small nation like Norway. It is quite natural that we should also receive such costs once in the future. It's okay. But the question is how often Norway will take on such costs. And it's almost unlikely that a person doesn't realize that such a high cost is a lot for a country like Norway — for a sports event that also has many other positive aspects. When it comes to the contact between Tromsø 2014 AS and the department, they have all the meetings they have asked for, and this has been the meeting point several times. We have also sent letters from the department to the committee where we have done well for the meetings we have had with Tromsø 2014. To come back later and say that it has our bad contact, I do not understand that. It has at least been yes from our side every time they have asked for a meeting. We've been in Tromsø, and they've got ours here. This has been our meeting at administrative and political level several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e404	I don't think there can be any doubt that in a long-term perspective an alternative investment in North Norway and in the Tromsø region will have a better effect than an OL. Nor do I think there can be any doubt that this will be at the expense of investment in other facilities around Norway, as the majority say. At the same time, there are very many good arguments for an O.L. in Tromsø, and I share many of the considerations made by many of the representatives in the Chamber about these. We're for an OL, and we're for it to be in North Norway and in Tromsø. Now I hear the Council of State say that once in the future it may be topical. It would have been interesting to hear the department’s assessment of when the ‘future’ is and when this is the case. I agree that 20 years – from 1994 to 2014 – are short, but at the same time I think 42 years, as was the case between OL in Oslo and OL in Lillehammer, is too long. Somewhere between that we have to be able to find a reasonable solution to this, and it might be interesting to hear the assessment of this by the Council of State and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e411	Now, as we sit here in the hall today, be careful to tie up future accumulations on the time to apply for a new arrangement of the OL. But I think the representative of Djupedal is right for 42 years, and 20 years is too short. Then there must be something in between. But it is also obvious that the chance of getting the OL will depend on who gets it in 2014. If Norway had sought, and we had received it, it would have been quite exceptional, for then Norway had had it three times in quite a short time, while other European countries had not reached the whole. So it would be much more to get it -- I think, then. But it's just thoughts that I'm doing. But I'm going to think that after something – from 20 to 40 years – it will be natural for Norway to search again and get an OL, and I hope that Nord-Noreg and Tromsø will be chosen by those who then decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e420	One could hardly say that the Minister for Sport is showing a burning enthusiasm around the plans for the Olympics in Tromsø in 2014. Her and the case spokesperson, from the Christian People's Party, use their 10 minutes to talk only about economics and expenses, without realizing that it's also an income page. In the setting, the Christian People's Party and the Right are associated with the Progress Party and indicate that any funds to the OL must be assessed in relation to alternative purposes and needs, not least within cultural and sporting areas. The fact today is that it's not the only ice hall north of Trondheim. So I challenge the Council of State: what concrete plans does the Government have when it comes to lifting within culture and sport, especially in North Norway? I do not expect a concrete figure, but I suggest that the Council of State has concrete proposals for measures that will have a long-standing impact on the northernmost part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e429	I'm sorry to hear that I'm not particularly enthusiastic about O.L. in Tromsø. What is at issue today is therefore a financial guarantee. That is what we are discussing. When everything else is involved in the application, I can keep a warm post too much of what is there, and I hope to be realized in the future. But I don't want to go in the same trap as my predecessors in the Minister of Culture chair did when he initially said that the Olympics at Lillehammer would be a plus account for Norway. We want more revenue than expenses, it was said. So it turned out that first had a state guarantee of 1.7 billion, then it went its way, and then the final payment of 7.3 billion. Then one at least hasn't had realism with him in handling and one did it that time. This time the seeker has been more thorough, and it has also been more realism in the application in relation to the economy. Nevertheless, we have pointed out some weaknesses, and that is actually also our job to do. When it comes to the construction of ice-creams and other things, etc. in North Norway, it is a special association that gives priority to where to lay these halls. We're following up on what's special about the financial resources that are. Then there's a little bit up to where the new halls should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e440	On 6 January 2004, the Norwegian Sports Association’s Board decided that Tromsø would be a Norwegian candidate for the Olympic Games in 2014, if Norway chose to apply. On 27 May of that year, after a thorough examination of the application from Tromsø, the Board of Sport took another positive decision. This led to great optimism about the fact that Tromsø and Nord-Norway are not very far from all colors. But when the government had gone through the application, optimism, given that Norway is a whole, was gone. The government put down its foot, as everyone knows, for warranty. Thus, with ‘help’ from the current government, North Norway is missing out on a major development of nutrition and culture. I then ask the Council of State about the Christian People's Party, which at least believes itself that it is district friendly, does not see and value the district development that this would have given North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e449	I think I agree with a lot of the article from the SV representative today when it concerns the bet on North Norway, and how we get the most out of the money. I'm afraid I have to say it so that in relation to rural development in North Norway, I believe that the money can be used in a much better way than in an OL. Now, I don't want to promise on behalf of the Government that we're going to spend the same amount of money on district development in North Norway as SV says in the package, but at least they point out that if we want to invest in North Norway, there's a lot more and better way to do it than to arrange an OL. I'd like to draw the line under once again so that this is about: how often do we have to deal with the amount of disposable expenditure that part of this is, and we don't get to enjoy it in the next session? It's easy to stand on the pulpit and promise billions of good things. But the bill has to be paid, and so that's what we have to take. It is likely that future politicians will also have to find money for it, and it is easy to promise what future politicians will pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e458	It's amazing how negative you can look at such a project – all over it is a negative attitude to an OL in Tromsø. Then the words that one should do it once in the future, in my view not so credible. They talk about it being so unimaginable that Norway will get three OLs in 62 years. Now we can comfort the Council of State that it is not so topical to organise a summer Olympic in Norway, while other countries are organizing both summer Olympics and winter Olympics, so I don't think we are so far behind for other organizers. Then you talk about that time coming, but it's not up to Norway. We have an opportunity window in 2014 and 2018. And then you're worried about using the tippers. And it says a councillor and a party that fought with beaks and claws to prevent us from changing the key, which gives half a billion extra to sports every year! So this is less than the one year extra through the key. I ask, does the Council of State feel comfortable now that you're against Tromsø-OL, you were against changing the key, and you want to put down the sports lines? What has this Council of State and the Government actually done for sport in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e470	When Trond Giske comes again with this key, I want to undress him once and for all. When he set himself as a councillor and could do something with the key, he did nothing. But as soon as he came out of the government and the new government got to pay the bill, he went in for it. He even got his party on it. So the honor that Trond Giske takes on for the change of the key is very small, compared to the fact that they themselves put on the power. They could have prioritised a change, the matter was up-to-date. Sports club lobby and work. The Labour Party said no in government, but they said yes in opposition when the sitting government had to pay the bill for research. So that's where I thought the honor is very small in relation to what's being said. It was said here that we are permeated by a negative hold. We are realistic to the economy as a whole. We have to be. I don't want to make the same loss as my predecessor, the Labour Party Council, did when he said it was going to be a plus project, and then the bill came to over NOK 7.5 billion in the end. That's why we're realistic. But we also say that we want North Norway to have an OL in the future. If Trond Giske doesn't believe us, at least I hope those who work for OL in North Norway believe us, and then we'll see together that Norway gets an OL in the future. And North Norway should definitely be the place where it is arranged.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e479	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e482	It could have been spectacular. It could have been a big cultural event. It could have created an unparalleled economic development. It could have created a optimism that more than the Workers' Party and the Centre's party in Norwegian policy would be investing in Norway in the north. But it didn't happen this time. An OL in Tromsø was too much for the government of Bondevik. On 11 November 2004, Minister of Culture Valgerd Svarstad Haugland announced that the Government would not provide the necessary guarantee for Tromsø 2014 AS’ application to arrange the Winter Olympics and Paralympics in Tromsø in 2014. The shock was great in many places throughout the country, and several wondered about all the arguments against an O.L. in Tromsø that emerged in St.meld. No 7 for 2004-2005. Was maybe the answer given in advance? In the Communication, the Government has used many aspects to mention things they think are negative at the planned installations. The only positive thing to read is the statement that long-distance and ski-shooting facilities are considered good. Such a one-sided negative focus creates a picture that such an event cannot be carried out as far north as possible. The Labour Party sees this as a common national commitment, and therefore we believe it is wrong when the Government focuses so much on investment costs that can be higher than assumed, so that more means of tipping and that it will go beyond measures elsewhere in the country, cf. Trond Giske's line. Did you think of candy when you plan Lillehammer-OL? What is important in this context is that the post-use of the facilities is well thought out, that something is retained, and that something can be rebuilt. We need, among other things: ice-creams also north of Trondheim. We know that Tromsø is seen as a very interesting candidate internationally, because the sports party, the cultural party and the people's party will take place in a relatively small area where one, possibly two participating villages, will be built, which we know would be positive. But as important as the two weeks of the OL party in a fantastic part of the country are the years ahead. One could create a business development that Norut Societal Research believes can provide 15 000 annual works over a period of six to eight years, as well as cooperation and good spirit from other parts of the country. This will generate income for private business and for the public, which in turn will benefit the population. I want to be so modest as to say that this will bring growth to the north, the coast and the whole country. But the most important thing will be the major ringing effects of sport. The fact that North Norway lacks international-class sports facilities is unfortunate for Norwegian and Nordic sport. In fact, the country’s practitioners have lower training conditions than those on the south, affecting sport both in peak and in width. The Olympics in Tromsø would pay for this, and in addition, hostilities could be taken on to the Arctic Winter Games, the winter games of the northernmost indigenous peoples. I must also mention the great cultural effort that is envisaged in relation to the games, among others. the four-year Olympic Culture Programme, counting down to the OL and the 200th anniversary of the Norwegian Constitution in 2014. This will include, inter alia: the cultural programme reflects the cooperation of the Arctic indigenous peoples across geographical, cultural, ethnic and national borders. With this, Norway has a unique chance of profiling North Norway and Coast Norway, the most amazing and spectacular our country has to live on, where its value creation will take place in the years to come, and where the tourism industry will invest heavily in the future. We should have over 2 billion TV viewers around the world experience North Norway's winter time with all its facilities. La Tromsø be Norway's next OL-by, preferably in 2014! We should take the chance now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e510	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e513	I am not in favour of an OL in Tromsø because I regard it as a district policy instrument. I'm not in favour of an O.L. in Tromsø because it will be the only way to create jobs and development in North Norway. And to Øyvind Korsberg: I'm not in favour of an OL in Tromsø either because it will be a cover-up for the political leadership of the municipality of Tromsø. I have to say, it's very strange to hear from that man. The main reason Norway should seek OL with Tromsø as a host city is that it will be a fantastic event. I am in favour of an OL in Tromsø because I believe that Norway should actually have ambitions to arrange an OL at regular intervals. And I'm for an O.L. in Tromsø because it'll give us the very strongest application to arrange the O.L. in this country. But in addition, of course, an O.L. in Tromsø will be a boost for North Norway. The obvious thing is that it will mean a completely different level of investment, and at least as important is the optimism and belief in its own strengths as the planning of an OL will mean. And not least, an O.L. in Tromsø would be of unsurpassed importance in marketing the continent in relation to travel life. Even today, North Norway is clearly the most important part of travel. Almost 12 pst. of all economic value creation takes place in travel. But the potential for travel life as a nourishment is much greater. Unfortunately, in Norway we have had too much random investment in travel. Internationally, travel life is a big business, and it's obvious that North Norway, with its magnificent nature, with the great sea, with living settlements and with midnight sun and northern lights, is a unique product in travel life. An OL north of the Polar Circle is unique. Tromsø is the only city in the world at the corresponding northern latitude which has sufficient infrastructure to complete an event of such size. And just listen to the slogan that's launched: Longer north than ever, warmer than ever. Unfortunately, it seems that the government has gone completely in lock and decided that this is not possible. That's what I think is incredibly defensive and negative. I'm not going to say that a no to Tromsø-OL is North-Norway hostile, but I have a feeling that you think: Tromsø is probably too far north, it's probably too far away. But what you should understand is that if Norway is to have the goal of hosting an OL again, we have to do something new, something exciting, something spectacular. We can do that with a Tromsø-OL. That is why I would like to join the other speakers from the Labour Party and the Central Party who say that the Stortinget sail today says no to Norway applying for the OL in 2014, so the project still has our support. Perhaps a new government can apply for 2014 or maybe for 2018? In any case, the next time Norway applies for the OL – and we will – the choice must be clear: ‘The decision must be Tromsø’.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e530	For the sports nation of Norway, for the cultural nation of Norway and for the food and competence nation of Norway, it was correct and important that the Stortinget had today agreed to a state guarantee to implement the OL in Tromsø in 2014. Norway should today have agreed to become a host nation for winter Olympic games in Tromsø 2014. To say yes would mean a rise for both the right of latitude and the right of refuge. It would be a good and proper strategy to strengthen physical activity and nutritional knowledge in the population, which we need enormously. When the Storting today says no, you're not just saying no to 14-day Arctic magic. It's not just saying no to a part of the country that has all the natural assumptions and enthusiasm to be able to implement a successful OL. An OL in Tromsø would give the northern regions a focus in advance, i.e. for nine years, below and after – an attention that North Norway deserves, but that has not been given. The ringing effects of an OL would be great especially for the northern regions, but also for Norway in general. This would give the national community sports facilities of international standards, which you don't have, but which you deserve, it would give tourism a boom, and that would lead to industries and infrastructure getting a stake that you haven't seen the husband. Although the Stortinge today says no, through this debate, as I interpret it, it has said that when applying for an OL, Tromsø is the place to add it. I hope this is going to happen pretty quickly. Although the majority of SV are opposed to an OL in 2014, as demonstrated by the debate today, SV will focus on, focus on and come up with investment plans in the northern regions. Although SV in this round goes against an OL in Tromsø – but I go for it – I hope we can get our comrades to join in a large-scale bet in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e541	I'm one of the many people who have believed in a majority in the Stortinge to apply for the Olympics for Tromsø in 2014. I think of an OL in Tromsø as something quite unique, in a unique country, in a unique part of the country and in an arctic landscape. I had hoped that the government and the majority of the population had seen the same thing and helped to translate a great vision into reality, but it doesn't seem like that. Instead, I feel like looking for every conceivable and unimaginable counter-representation that can be found, to put an effective stop to this fantastic international sporting and cultural event, and to a fantastic national nutrition action based in the northern part of the country. This also fits well into the range of all events and actions in the north for which this government has turned its thumb down. I have noticed with satisfaction that the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee are positive to the Olympics in Tromsø in 2014. This tells me that the project is good, and that an application will undoubtedly be strong in the international authorities where the matter will be decided. I don't want to give up the fight for the Olympics in Tromsø in 2014, and I'm sure in any case that the Olympics will become a reality in Tromsø. In the debate prior to this treatment, and here today, it has naturally been about costs and money use, and I think that is both natural and correct. However, I am very wondering about the arguments about everything that this money can be used for, as long as they are not used at an OL event in Tromsø. No one makes me think that this government is becoming more generous towards the municipalities and will give a lot of money to other good purposes when we now seem to get a no to the OL in Tromsø in 2014. On the other hand, at an OL we can put in place important infrastructure and activity here to countries that have lasting values far beyond the duration of an OL event. I still hope that this case will have a positive outcome. As a resident of the ski nation of Norway, I say to the bulk of the population: there is no shame in turning around!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e556	The complainant said that Tromsø and Nord-Norway are pointing out to be the next applicant for the Olympics. The same thing has repeatedly been expressed by the Council of State. I do not feel that this is a consistently negative attitude, but an economic assessment by the Council of State. I fully agree with the case rapporteur and the Council of State that it is Tromsø and Nord-Norway that point out, and it is not just me, but it is Troms County, Finnmark County, Nordland County, Sametinget, a number of organizations and cities, LU and the Troms Christian People's Party fully agree. We therefore believe that it is a great opportunity to go into the vision OL Tromsø 2014 just when we are celebrating the 200th anniversary in relation to 1814. It's a vision that we, although it's going to cost money, should take our advice and use, to mark that very anniversary. OL 2014 in Tromsø is a vision, a vision not only for Tromsø and North Norway, no primarily for Norway. In the application, applicants have also pointed out and focused on six areas and have clear objectives. Of course, it is primarily about sport, but it is also about culture, it is about peace, about arctic nature and the environment, about compact events, and about value creation and development. We have a unique chance by saying yes to the application for the guarantee for OL Tromsø 2014, not just for North Norway, but for the whole country. It has been pointed out in the debate that there should be an argument against organising the OL in Tromsø that it is a press area. Yes, what are we going to say about plans to build big jumpers in Oslo – isn't Oslo a press area? There are so many arguments against when there's something going to happen in North Norway, that, unfortunately for us who live there, it becomes a pattern. I hope we can get out of this just by saying yes to the application for a state guarantee. As the Council of State itself said, only the State can provide such a guarantee. In the Christian People's Party in Troms we are to give that guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e567	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has explained to the Right's primary point of view on this matter, and I agree with that, of course. But I wanted to link some comments to some of the things that have emerged in the debate, and also to give credit to those who are behind this application from Tromsø. I think, like many others who have spoken here, that this is a very exciting idea, it's a visionary idea. There's someone who thinks many years ahead in time, and we need such people, not just in North Norway, we need that all over the nation. Unlike the representative of the Progress Party, who almost made this as a socialist experiment from the city of Tromsø and the municipality of Tromsø, I see an OL, a winter Olympic, as an international event, a world event. When Norway as a nation arranges a Winter Olympics, it is a national event and a nationallift, it is not an investment for a socialist regime in a municipality in North Norway. I also believe that this could have produced significant ring-effects. But if we are to achieve that, the financial assumptions must be in place, the framework conditions must be in place, the foundations on which this is to be built, there must be a team, as both the Council of State and others have pointed out and presented here today. I think that is also the basis for what both the promoters who are behind this application and those who are going to work further on the matter have to take care of me. I ask them to take with them the objections and input that come from the Stortinget, from the departmental team as well, and then make sure that all of these pieces are grounded and put in place on the next round that comes, because with the background of what has been said in the Stortinget today, especially for us who are interested in both winter sports and other sports, there is no doubt that the Olympics will we arrange in Norway, if we do not do so in 2014, we will do it a little later. I also registered that the representative Haga was disappointed with the Government, who did not provide for the majority of this guarantee. I just want to remind you that the representative Haga has a dream of getting into the government position after the election, and then she can be at least equally disappointed, perhaps considerably more disappointed, about one of the parties she wants to reign with, namely SV, who does not support this application. It could perhaps be the first commandment that those who might be ruling in layers, or have the dream of reigning in layers after the election, agree on some things that they can accomplish jointly, even before this election has taken place. I will once again give tribute to the initiators of Tromsø for a good idea, for good visionary attitudes, and say that they must stand on the right track. This will then become a reality, if not in 2014, then later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e578	This debate is beginning to ebb out, and the conclusion has already been reached. At the end of the day, however, I just want to say a few words in connection with some of the claims that have emerged in this debate, which have been quite interesting. In particular, it goes to the representative Trond Giske and the other speakers of the Workers' Party who claim that the government parties and the bigoting message are permeated by a negative view of an O.L. in Tromsø. It's completely wrong. We are not permeated by any negative attitude towards an OL in Tromsø, which I think is also underlined in this debate, but we are going to go against arranging this already in 2014, because we think it is a short time ago. As the previous speaker, the representative Voie, underlined, it is not only the Government, but a broad majority of the Stortinget who share this view, including the main future government partner of the Workers' Party, SV. It might be tempting to ask whether the representative Giske and the Workers' Party intend to raise this issue again when they, or if so, would enter the government position. The government has, says Giske on, decided in advance not to give state guarantees. Yes, that's an argument that you make when you don't have any other arguments, so I think it seems like – for who is it that has decided in advance, who was first out there and proclaimed that you wanted to go in for an Olympic Games in Tromsø in 2014? Yes, it was Trond Giske's representative, long before the staging message was available, if I don't remember faults. I cannot see that the Workers' Party and the Centre have entered into the assessments made by the Government in the Storing Message and pointed out errors or tried to challenge the allegations of uncertainty that have arisen. On the contrary, they have been completely flattened for the applicant's own calculations. It can be good enough, but to say that you've decided in advance, it falls on your own unreasonableness. From the Christian People's Party I just want to say that we are not against an O.L. in Tromsø. We think it might be. But when we go against it at the moment, it is, as the Council of State has also explained very well, because we do not think the time is now in the interest of uncertainty about the long-term effects, and in view of the many challenges that lie not least in the cultural and sporting spheres. If it becomes an OL in the future, it can only show the time. But I don't think it should be on the Christian People's Party when we see that these calculations are also done, and that we can rely on the numbers that we get on the table. Then I guess we'll see that it's a real visionary project in the north, so I think we'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e587	This has become a strange show. The representative after representatives from the government parties went up and said that they are very much for an O.L. in Tromsø. The representative Lånker even says that it should not be on the Christian People's Party – well, it is on the Christian People's Party. We're going to vote over this in a couple of hours, and we're missing six–seven votes. That's why I invite both Ivar Korsberg's wrong name, see Øyvind Korsberg's comment on page 2095, Søren Fredrik Voie and others who speak enthusiastically for a Tromsø-OL, to get us the last six voices, then there will be OL in Tromsø. It's not harder. It's the kind of decisions a big deal makes. But you do that with the voice button – yes or no – not with nice words from the speaker’s chair. You talk about the reason why you don't want an OL is the big uncertainty about the costs. It was even said by Søren Voie that you should come back with an even better application and more specific figures. Well, you haven't even been contacted by the department to figure this out. What should the O.L. in Tromsø do? If you're going to sign the construction contracts, you're going to rent the cruise boats, you're going to sign the TV contracts? That's the kind of thing you can't do ten years in time, and at least not until you've got a state guarantee and come a lot further in a search process. You're fantastically detailed about being ten years ahead of the project. The best experts from the Lillehammer implementation have been used, the best experts in Norway and internationally, and the government's only appeal is that there is uncertainty. Well, that's turning open the doors. Obviously, there is uncertainty when you talk about ten years in advance. Not only is OL a fantastic event, but we also get a Paralympics, which I think the government parties should have been more concerned about and stressed more what meaning might have. Then it is said that this should not be to save the socialist regime in Tromsø. Well, there's going to be two municipal elections in front of this OL, so it's very defaitistic of the government parties to say that the Workers' Party/SV majority in Tromsø will stay until 2014. I hope so, of course. But that the government parties have in some way already recognized that it is, I would say is horrifyingly alarming. I don't understand what it takes for the government to say yes, except that it has to take longer because this is so costly – it costs too much money. We have described here that the sports equipment to be used is less than the annual increase thanks to the change in the key. The Minister of Culture says that it was the Government that provided the funds for research. No, it wasn't. It was the Stortinget that, by the same decision as the decision to change the key, increased the Research Fund, so that the research got everything they lost from the key, and well saw it. I think you'd be more honest if you went up and said, "We're against the Olympics in Tromsø." We think that this is a good idea, but that kind of thing Norway is not going to afford. Tax relief is more important, and other things are more important in a budget. This is in a 20-year perspective a very, very reasonable money for a fantastic project that would have created enthusiasm, joy, competence, the marking of travel life, an international marking of Norway as a peace nation, which is also part of this concept. Unfortunately, it is not implemented, at least not here. But of course, we will do the same after the elections, and it will be up to the government negotiations to be conducted if we get a majority – here I have the impression that Loans have taken the majority for granted – if there is a new round.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e607	I just need to clean up a little bit in the mess Trond Giske has created. I fully agree with him that when you listen to part of the representatives from the government parties, you may become unsure of what they really mean. Then he made the claim that it was just listening to the representative Ivar Korsberg. I do not know if there is a cooperation between Ivar Østberg and Øyvind Korsberg, but my name is Øyvind Korsberg, and the Christian People's Party's representative is Ivar Østberg. So I guess that's what he meant. The debate has shown the enormous repercussions this will have on travel life. What, then, are the studies? The investigation I mentioned in my main post concerning Lillehammer showed that it did not have the major ringing effects on travel life. It was a little bit in the Lillehammer area before and of course under the OL and immediately afterwards, but in the districts around it had no ringing effects. So it would be interesting to hear what research you're referring to here, or if it's just that you think so. The representative Voie was concerned that I had called this or compared this to a socialist experiment. I have not done that, simply because I had not come to use such statements. But I really think it was pretty good, so I can call this a socialist experiment. And then you know how it goes financially, then it goes straight into the ditch. So that was really a pretty good expression. Now it is not that we in the Progress Party are against an OL in Tromsø, we are against an OL in Norway. But since the application was about Tromsø, we're against an OL in Tromsø. Many people have been concerned about how important this is for sport, when you have such an intense sporting interest. So have I. I've also been doing sports. But the thing to be aware of when it comes to sports is that the biggest sports heroes we have and have had in the past in Norway are not exactly the result of having large national facilities. They are born around the country and become sports stars based on completely different assumptions than having large national facilities, which this is about. Of course, an OL in Tromsø would have had major ring-effects for business, there is no doubt about it. But it can't be used as an argument to spend 10-15 billion dollars on taxpayers' money. It's not a good investment. We could use it on other things around the country, but using it just concentrated around the island of Tromsøj we think is the wrong priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e620	I didn't really intend to take the word anymore, but after listening to the post to Gisk, I'm still forced to say a few words. First of all, I thought that a representative who has a government seat knows that increasing the Research Fund is not very demanding, but when one is going to withdraw the money, they have to enter the overall framework that a government can use. If it was so easy to change the key relative to research, why on earth didn't the Labour Party do it when they were in position to do it? No, they didn't, because they didn't find the means to research. But they found a number after they left and they didn't have to pay the bill. I thought it was important to underline that. So starting and writing with these key changes when one didn't do anything about it when one had the possibility itself, I think it's something hollow, to say it right out. That said, I would also like to stress that the conclusion that Gishe drew on behalf of us who say no to the guarantee is wrong. For we say, yes, we want an OL in the future, but not at 20 years' intervals – how many years it will be after these 20 years, we don't know. But taking on such extra costs is a lot of money for a small nation like Norway, and they have to take care of something. It's not just sports we talk about, but it has to be taken from the total budget that a nation has to use. Therefore, it is important that such expenditure is not as close to each other as it is. But we still want Norway to arrange the OL in the future. As a little bit of extra information, I can also add that when it comes to bets on ice-creams and ice hockey halls, as some have requested, we have been given support from the department for ten new ice-creams, and it is quite natural that some of them come to North Norway when they are to be built. We hope that the continent will enjoy the extra resources that will go to the ice halls to be built in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e631	It may be interesting to note that in this debate it actually looks like SV has become more economical than the Workers' Party, represented by the representative Giske. But it's probably not a big secret or anything new that the representative Giske has x billions to distribute in almost any debate he attends, for almost any good purpose. In this context, some lines could also be drawn forward until a new government option, if any, would come into the position that they would have to balance a budget. I wonder which of the good promises would then be prioritised. I spoke about the initiators in Tromsø and the job they did, and I am fully aware of what I said. When I pointed out that it was possible to do a future work as well, it is in line with the signals from the Council of State that in the future we will arrange the OL, even a winter OL, in Norway. I personally hope that there are still good initiators both in Tromsø and in other parts of the country who will work together to get this OL located, arranged and implemented in the north of Norway — when that time comes, and when the financial assumptions are put in place. Otherwise I'll say a little to the representative of Korsberg. It is possible that the representative did not express that this was based on a socialist experiment in the municipality of Tromsø. But I clearly recorded that he described in detail how this had come into place with the socialist regime that is in the municipality of Tromsø, where they have been both in the Mountain Heath and in the pub before they wrote the OL request to the Council of State and to the Department. If that could be better, I can say that this had come into place with the background of a socialist conspiracy, then from the point of view of the representative Korsberg. It was supposed to be covering both for my position and his position in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e640	Trond Giske has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e643	I record that the Council of State has not answered the question of how far in time you have to wait for the Christian People's Party to of course stand for an O.L. in Tromsø. I also record that she has not said anything about this as being a relatively anti-sports government, both in terms of the key, in terms of the sports lines, and in terms of an OL in Tromsø. It's probably neither Valgerd Svarstad Haugland nor I who alone pay the bill, it pays the Norwegian people together through the state budgets. But the Stortinget made a decision here, not because of the government's budget proposals, but because of decisions here, that research got its money. It's said that it's going to be so expensive to have an OL every 20 years. If you consider the costs in Lillehammer and Tromsø, you talk about approx. 200 million. kr of the year set off for operation, and 300 mill. SEK set aside for investment — investment in aerodromes, roads, police, defence infrastructure, etc. I also thought that the government parties would be enthusiastic about that, but it doesn't seem that way. So I'm just going to correct myself on two points. One is that I think the voting margin gets a little bit larger than what I referred to instead. The second is that it was Ivar Østberg that I would refer to when it was about voting for from the government parties. Øyvind Korsberg has been enthusiastically opposed. Now faith can move mountains, but I don't think any of the two mountains mentioned can move from this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e652	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2099]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e669	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2100]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e685	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e694	Today, we are considering a proposal from several representatives of the Progress Party to introduce a broadband definition in Norway. The proposers believe that there are many perceptions of what broadband is, and that this makes it difficult for consumers to get in touch with the range of providers and the type of offer. I expect the rapporteurs to explain their views and proposals later. I would like first of all to focus on the views of the Committee on the matter. The majority of the Committee, from the Labour Party, the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, suggests that the so-called Broadband Communication laid down a definition of broadband as a ‘two-way communication networks capable of transmitting different types of data such as text, audio and live images. The network must be able to perform new services and allow many to use the network simultaneously.’ In practice, this means having at least ADSL capacity to be considered broadband. The majority of the Committee is concerned that a strict definition can quickly be out-dated and will not be adapted to the level of technology, as developments are taking place so quickly. However, without predicting the technological future, I would like to point out that computer compression can lead to a possible definition of broadband becoming far too wide and therefore more expensive than necessary for consumers. Another scenario is that more and more will use the network both to send and to receive information, and that any definition will therefore become too narrow in relation to capacity needs. The majority therefore believe that there must be supply and demand defining technology use and bandwidth. The same majority, with the exception of the Socialist Left Party, believe that it must be the individual order of broadband that must define its own needs and not risk paying for capacity that is higher than what is desirable. It is a goal that we should have access to broadband as much as possible, and then we have to be careful to get into a situation that makes it too expensive for developers, and that consumers cannot afford to buy broadband services. In its comments, the Socialist Left Party has chosen to comment on several aspects of broadband and broadband development, such as: who owns and operates the network. All the other parties have chosen to focus on what we think is central to this matter, namely the definition of broadband. So it's not like we don't have opinions or don't want to comment on broadband on a more general basis, but we've chosen to focus on the proposal. In this context, I will therefore refer to the comments of the various parties in St.meld. No 49 for 2002-2003, Broadband for knowledge and growth. Finally, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e718	There are several good reasons for introducing a broadband definition. I'll list some. It will be easier for users to choose the right speed when they have a clear definition to relate to. They get better opportunities to learn about the jungle of offers. In the long term, this will help to increase price competition and to force new and faster transmission technologies. Furthermore, it is important that administrations have a given parameter to assume when reporting broadband deployment. The bandwidth says something about the transmission capacity. The available transmission capacity determines which services users are able to use and how many services they can use at the same time. The quality of the supply will naturally have a strong impact on demand. Of course, when there's no clear definition of broadband, it's easier to achieve a policy goal for broadband penetration, because this is an unknown size. State Secretary Eirik Lae Solberg stated to the Evening Post on 6 April that at least 90 pst. households will be able to broadband during the current year. Telenor has given a promise of 90 pst. coverage during 2006. But much of what Telenor offers has a low speed, and a lot of that we can call narrowband, all the way down to 128 Kbps. So it looks pretty neat in the statistics, even though most people would claim that such a low speed has very little to do with broadband. This means that a high number of people, institutions and enterprises in Norway are unable to establish satisfactory broadband connectivity. It is appropriate to mention that Telenor’s ADSL offer will be only mid-band, and at best a transitional arrangement. The party fears that this could be a sleep cushion and an obstacle to achieving the goal of optimal development across the country. ADSL does not have enough capacity for schools, municipalities, hospitals and businesses to mention anything. If we go into the estimates of the Central Statistical Office, there are relatively few Norwegian homes with broadband according to European standard targets. At the end of the third quarter last year it was only approx. 22,000 Internet subscribers with capacity beyond 2 Mbps, while a total of 2.3 million Internet subscribers with varying but on average much lower bandwidth. This shows the need for a clean-up and that work should start now. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister for Modernisation said, inter alia: in its justification for not entering into a broadband definition that authorities shall not attempt to influence market-driven development. Furthermore, new compression technologies are expected. This answer was not unexpected. Of course, the government does not like to set specific targets for broadband, because it will tear down the success story that the market alone can expand broadband across Norway. A definition could also help to promote competition in the market, as I said earlier, because it is clear that when it is difficult to compare services, competition is also getting worse. The state councils have been reasonably concerned with opening up more competition in a number of other areas, but here he is acting counter-responsive, in my opinion. It is also self-contradictory when the Minister of Modernisation says in his letter that he will not make a definition now because of the development of technology and new compression techniques. It actually means that e.g. 1 Mbit/s broadband line in the future will be able to transmit much more data. In Norway, broadband is mainly based on the copper of Telenor. The copper yields significantly less speed than the fibre, and several simultaneous users reduce the transfer rate. A very important point is that since 90 pst. of all broadband lines in Norway is the resale of Telenor’s copper, this helps to weaken competition in the Norwegian telecommunications market. When the majority, all but the Progress Party and the Center Party, do not want to define broadband, this helps to cement this monopoly because too little is stimulated to bet on broadband based on fiber, radio and other technologies. So when the Progress Party promotes a proposal to introduce a broadband definition, it is an example that we want to have more competition and play with consumers. I would like to refer to the Progress Party and the proposal of the Central Party that has been referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e746	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e749	Any involvement in the increased development of high-speed internet in Norway is price-priced. I also see this as the intention of the proposers. However, SV believes that setting up a broadband definition is not the way to go in order to improve access to the Internet in Norway. Digital networks are important infrastructure and should therefore be managed accordingly. It is a pity, therefore, that many feel that this should be left to the market. I should like to see the government that left to the market all the construction of roads in the districts. The problem is that broadband is a slightly diffuse concept. Defining it solely as a given speed is probably not going to do anything better. There is an increasing development of network technology that will gradually increase the availability of increased speeds. At the same time, the speed needs of different actors will vary greatly, depending on the number of users and use. For example, a school with 300 students will have a much greater need for transmission capacity than a school of 50 students. This proposal is characterised by the fact that proposers believe that the experience of the Internet depends only on the speed of connection to the provider. This takes away the attention from many other factors that may well be so important. For example, a broadband definition based on speed will: do not say anything about whether this solution is provided with a wireless route, or whether it is lawful to share the connection with all computers in the household. Furthermore, a broadband definition related to a specific speed could quickly divert attention from the deployment of the core network. If a user has a connection of 2 Mbit/s to the supplier, this does not mean that the user will always experience that speed. The perceived speed depends on the bandwidth offered by the provider to the rest of the Internet and the number of users sharing this bandwidth. At the same time, we have to innovate that there are already many definitions on broadband. According to the OECD, broadband is more than 256 Kbit/s in one direction. I believe that the proposers believe that broadband has a higher speed than this. What we need, therefore, is not a curious definition of broadband, all the time when Norwegian suppliers will still be able to market their products as broadband with reference to international definitions. What we need is more information to consumers about what they can expect from the different speeds, and information about what additional services they should require. SV is not a hot defender of the Government's broadband policy. In the Broadband Communication, we were together with the Centre Party and the Progress Party on a more active and ambitious broadband policy. For example, we agreed on the creation of a broadband fund with DKK 3 billion in fund capital. The development of broadband is a very important and useful district policy instrument. The Government has abandoned several such instruments through the fall-back of the EEA Agreement, including: the differentiated employer’s fee. It is then a little surprising that the few instruments we have left are not being put more heavily on, and broadband policy is an important tool. Technology workplaces can be provided almost anywhere in the country, only if they have good opportunities for high-speed Internet access. We need a much larger investment in high-speed Internet in Norway today. A broadband definition will not solve this problem. SV wants an increased deployment of high-speed networks. What's called broadband won't be crucial if we're able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e766	The SV's representative made a very good contribution, which went through the reasons why we need a much stronger deployment of broadband than the government puts up. So I agree with most of what was said about the need for a forced expansion, and the reason why the individual user may have different needs. When the majority argues that defining a standard for broadband could lead to some buying more capacity or buying things they don't really need, and that therefore you don't want to introduce a standard, it's an argument that can be used in a lot of areas of society. On the vast majority of products, we have introduced a Norwegian standard, or there are standards on how to design products. There are requirements to be met by individual products. We never ask whether the individual user necessarily has to have a product that meets exactly that standard. We've introduced that standard to have definitions to relate to. It should of course be within this area as well. I don't know if the majority's argument is also an argument for breaking standards in all other areas of society. I therefore think it is perfectly obvious that in this area, too, the necessary steps should be taken to define what broadband really is, and what it is about. Of course, as the majority say, the individual user has to decide what capacity you need. It is up to each user to decide for himself. Whether the individual user chooses to buy broadband or buy something with less capacity, or possibly also buy something that has much greater capacity than the broadband definition suggests to have a minimum standard, of course, becomes the choice of the individual user. I don't think it would be necessary to spend more time on my part. It is well argued from the representative Hedstrom why a standard should be introduced, and I agree with that argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e779	I am happy every time the Stortingen discusses IT policy, as regards both content and infrastructure. Technology offers us new opportunities both in the private, commercial market and not least in terms of improving public service provision for citizens. The debate on broadband has been large and extensive in recent years. Sometimes I wish we had lifted our eyes more and more and not just looked at the bandwidth and expansion pace, but had been even more focused on the services that become available when broadband is expanded. So it's not the broadband itself that generates benefits for citizens, businesses and the public sector, but it's also the services that can be distributed via broadband, which are the exciting opportunities for our society. That's where our attention should be. I personally do not see the need for the authorities to try to influence a healthy and naturally market-driven development by introducing what can be perceived as a strict and conservative broadband definition based on transmission capacity. In addition to being different from what most other countries operate with, this could also define broadband technologies, such as the use of new technologies. DSL. So far, we have to note that these technologies have well balanced users' capacity needs and willingness to pay. It is my opinion that there is the positive dynamic between the development of infrastructure and the development of new bandwidth-enhancing services and content that should at all times be involved and define the transmission capacities that should be designated as broadband. This need will be changed over time and consequently the introduction of a technical definition could be expeditiously out of date. This is also in line with the OECD recommendations. Such step-by-step market dynamics of broadband networks reduce the risk of overinvestment in infrastructure, while allowing actors to upgrade capacity to meet increased transmission capacity requirements required by new services and more advanced content. Both the representative Hedstrøm and I are concerned with user orientation and stronger consumer power. We're probably distinguishing some layers in this debate, where I actually trust that customers/users/buyers of broadband are knowledgeable and able to define for themselves what needs they have in relation to what services they want to distribute via broadband. An active and ambitious broadband policy is called for. In conclusion, I want to say that is exactly what the government has, and the active and ambitious broadband policy is working. It implies that the development of broadband that carries attractive services is at a pace that even the most optimistic consider to be very high. It also provides opportunities for citizens, for businesses and the public sector, to make faster use of services and benefit from the benefits these services provide, faster than we had imagined just one year ago. We're in the process of developing broadband in the Nordic region, and as I said, it's going at a pace where there's every reason to be proud of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e794	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e797	I'm very happy, like the Council of State, that it looks like things are going well with the expansion of broadband. I would like to ask a question to the Council of State, as it has come to my mind that when a municipality is defined as covered with broadband, it is actually enough that the centre has broadband. Is that the definition in the statistics? That's what I'm after.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e805	As far as I am aware, the definition is also whether the municipality has coverage, as the representative puts it. Today there are ten municipalities that are without such coverage. One year ago, that figure was 63. We are aware that of the ten municipalities that are currently lacking broadband coverage, six have plans for coverage in 2005 via Telenor DSL. Two of the other municipalities have other concrete plans. So there are two of the 433 municipalities we don't know today if they have sufficient plans for broadband connectivity. Once again, the demand for services is driving the development of broadband for business and citizens, also internally in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e812	There is today a collusion of consumer offers, so it is very difficult to compare prices and quality of broadband services. By definition, it would clearly be easier for consumers to be informed about this market, and it would then strengthen competition. Almost all experts agree on this. The Council of State said it must be the demand that governs the offer, but we always have an objective need. If there is a good quality of service, demand will increase. I want to draw attention to the last issue of the Computerworld that I got at Stortinget today. Here it says on the first page that Telenor will now sell ADSL 2+ in Sweden, while we do not get it in Norway for a long time. I will link this to the public sector. We have 750,000 in the public sector in Norway. What does it mean that we have much lower transmissions, greater inertia and less bandwidth in Norway than in Sweden? I would like to see the results of the investigation that we may be losing in the billions of dollars in competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e819	The representative Hedstrom describes the situation on the broadband market as ‘a pool’ of offers and suppliers. In a market where there is competition for the benefit of consumers, it is precisely important that there are many suppliers who can provide us with services. We have a responsibility to help inform consumers and to make knowledge known, but that we solve the challenges in the absence of competition in the telecommunications sector by setting definitions for broadband and broadband broadband, I am very much in doubt about. With regard to Hedstrøm’s questions about the public sector: Again – I run a number of IT-related projects from my department that require infrastructure, and precisely the benefits of implementing the services that will contribute to the further development of broadband capacity. We are also in the lucky situation that today we have the opportunity to give 86 pst. of all households offering broadband, and the expansion is still taking place at a very high pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e826	No more words have been asked for. No more have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2100]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e841	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e849	During the debate, Mr Haga put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State guarantee in respect of the application made by Tromsø 2014 AS to be awarded to the Olympic Winter Games and Paralympics in 2014, is equivalent to the total cost of the games.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e875	The vote will take place on behalf of the Workers' Party from the Odelstinget meeting on 18 March 2005 on the proposal submitted by Eva M. Nielsen: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of amending Section 2-1 of the Church Act, so that elections to new councils and magnification are held at the same time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-18.ana.ud138e894	During the debate, Øystein Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a definition of broadband’.» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
