ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e34	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today - and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve. - Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e49	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time be set at 10 minutes in the first post of each representative, then limit the speaking time to 3 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with a response after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e56	The flood disaster in South Asia was enormous, and it requires the greatest relief effort in modern times. Nevertheless, we must not forget that poverty and war in Africa require victims equivalent to three tsunamis per year! It is reassuring that so many of the world’s leaders have warned against letting the help of the river waves go at the expense of other poor countries. Britain's Finance Minister, Gordon Brown, announced a Marshall Plan for Africa earlier in January. The UN Secretary-General has pointed out that the organisation has received more money in seven days than in the whole of 2004. Perhaps the flood disaster will be a turning point in the fight against poverty. Let me say that development policy and the fight against poverty are not charity. Development policies are addressing some of the most serious human rights challenges of our time. This is particularly true of poverty. Then this big message has been given the title 'Joint fight against poverty. A comprehensive development policy’. Therefore, it is also stated at the outset in the Communication: ‘The world of mankind is inviolable’. The fight for human rights should therefore be the basis and starting point for Norwegian development policy in the coming years. When we take this as our starting point, it is also obvious that the UN's Millennium Goals should be the framework for our policies towards developing countries. These objectives address key aspects of the living conditions of poor people. But other objectives, such as those of the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development, are also mentioned. The notification therefore makes it visible how we contribute from the Norwegian side to achieving the objectives, and it points out that efforts need to be made in many areas at the same time. It is a strength that there is broad consensus in the position that the UN Millennium Goals should be the basis of Norwegian development policy in the coming years. This rights orientation in Norwegian development policy is a political innovation. In the past, so-called aid policy was very much project-oriented, and of many also characterised as technocratic. Development policy will now not least be influenced by our ability to create the new international framework conditions to enable development. It requires changes to the international framework conditions for trade, debt and investment. In addition, we need to focus on key factors such as good governance and respect for human rights. Thus, all policies affecting the living conditions of poor people are development policies. If we look at the Millennium Goals, we see that there are two of them pointing out. The first is the goal of halving the number of people in the world who live for less than $1 day. The second is building a global partnership for development. This is primarily due to the fact that development policy is slightly more than aid. It also means creating new and better framework conditions for trade and investment so that poor countries can be better integrated into the world economy. Building a global partnership therefore involves commitments on all sides. The rich countries need to provide more and better assistance, and poor countries need to improve their governance through, among other things. combating corruption, developing democracy and strengthening civil society, while facilitating better business development. As regards the level of Norwegian development aid, there is a broad consensus in the Committee that the objective of 1 pst should be achieved. gross national income is constant. Once this goal is achieved, the majority view is that this level is at least 1 pst. shall be maintained during the 2005-2009 grossing-up period. Only the Progress Party wants a lower level of Norwegian development assistance. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that there is not just a need to look at the level of assistance itself. Better assistance is also an important objective. It will be important to make it more effective and targeted. The keyword in this context is giving reform. There is broad consensus in the Committee that in the years to come, Norwegian development policy should be geared towards combating the most extreme poverty. In this context, it will be important to align development policies with those countries and regions that are furthest away from the achievement of the UN’s Millennium Goals. Africa, and in particular sub-Saharan Africa, points out as an important target area. It also agrees that an indicative target should be set for the proportion of Norwegian aid to go to low-income countries and the poorest countries. Close links exist between national responsibility for development and poverty reduction on the one hand and more targeted and effective assistance on the other. The aim must be that our partners in the south should be given increased responsibility for their own development, including: through the work on poverty strategies. It is also these who must lead the fight against corruption and the development of a good governance system with a viable civil society. At the heart of thegovernance reform is the development of better coordination procedures between assistance at country level and regional and multilateral efforts. It is therefore important that Norway build alliances with other donors for the simplification of procedures, better division of labour, more frequent co-financing and more systematic use of each other’s reporting. I am particularly pleased that there is a unanimous committee behind this goal. It is also important that a majority of the votes are in favour in order that the countries building up democratic governance and good governance systems should receive assistance less in the form of earmarked grants and more in the form of framework appropriations, preferably through budgetary support. The issue of international debt cancellation measures has once again become an important issue. The flood disaster in Rome has put this even higher on the international agenda. I am also pleased that there is consensus in the Committee that the debt relief measures are additional and do not replace loans and assistance that can contribute to further development. Debt in itself does not lead to the objective without combining it with a developmental policy. It is therefore important that our partners also develop their own strategies for combating poverty, as it is important to emphasise the link between national strategies for combating poverty and debt cancellation through the HIPC initiative. The issue of so-called illegitimate debt has been high on the national and international agendas. In this context, I would like to point out that the Government has announced support for a multilaterally anchored study of illegitimate debt, and believe that such work will be important in order to further develop new and improved criteria for international debt financing and debt relief. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers’ Party, the SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, have also proposed that the Government return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with an assessment of the issue of an international debt court. I will briefly mention the areas of action in Norwegian development policy. The Committee agrees that the safeguarding of women’s and children’s rights and rights to vulnerable groups such as the indigenous and disabled, but also education, health, sustainable development, business development with agriculture, culture, civil society, conflict prevention and peace-building are important areas of action. In addition, there is agreement that cross-cutting areas such as women, the environment, children and culture should be given the necessary priority in the assistance. In addition to these key areas of activity, a majority of the Committee also believes that the Norwegian State for State aid has been overly spread across many sectors. There is now a majority for a greater concentration in fewer areas that will help to improve coordination and also reduce the administrative burden on the recipient country. In the future, therefore, Norwegian aid financed from rural and regional appropriations should normally focus on two-three sectors in each country. It is also important in this context that the countries of destination have ownership. The choice of sectors should therefore be made in close cooperation with the cooperating country and other donors and then based on the country’s own poverty reduction strategy. A very important theme area, which is becoming increasingly important in the coming years, is the environment. The main thing in the Committee's position in this context is that the Committee asks the Government to draw up an action plan for the overall environmental effort in Norwegian development cooperation. The background to this is to ensure a more systematic implementation of this part of the assistance. At the same time, we will stress from the Right and the Christian People's Party that this involves an update of the environmental strategy as mentioned in the Communication. We see an ever closer link between poverty and refugee flows, uncontrolled urbanisation and environmental degradation. Such links can both create and strengthen conflicts. Violent conflict is one of the main obstacles to development. That is why it is also important to have a broad perspective on security policy, where not only military but also economic, political and social aspects of security are involved. In this perspective, too, it is important to stress that development policy must be an integral part of Norway’s foreign policy. Therefore, peacemaking and humanitarian action must also be a central part of a comprehensive development policy. Whether this is a broad consensus within the Committee. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the broad conclusion that performance focus and quality assurance remain important. New evaluation techniques should also be developed when budget support and sectoral programmes are increasingly being introduced. To this end, the Committee asks the Government to return to the Stortingen in its annual budget proposals with a detailed assessment of how a concrete measure of the impact of development policy is taking place where budget support replaces project funding in development policy. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its excellent cooperation in a very long process, from this summer on, but also to thank the numerous consultative bodies and research staff who have contributed to the final product.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e103	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e106	A unanimous committee emphasises that ‘distribution and social policies also work in poor countries’. One example is that life expectancy is consistently higher in rich countries than in poor countries, and in many cases because rich countries have more redistribution and better health and social policies than poor countries. The Committee draws this up as a good illustration that a good social policy is not just a cost but, to the greatest extent, a contribution to increasing value creation. Following the views of the Workers' Party and the SV, a strong and active trade union movement is an important prerequisite for ensuring a better distribution policy. In our part of the world, the trade movement has historically been the main force behind a changed policy of distribution. Does the representative of Vallersnes disagree with such an analysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e113	I think the theme taken up by the representative Eyering here is very important, and we also have a broad commitment to follow up the conventions under the ILO. There is, of course, every reason to believe that some of these themes will be the focus when one sees the PRSPs being developed in the different countries. When the Committee does not agree with the comment on the importance of the trade movement, it is well because one of the Workers' Party chose to formulate it so that this was the most important factor in development. There are many other important factors that have contributed to development. But that there is one important factor among several, I think we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e120	I am pleased that the case-speaker mentions the cancellation of debt as an important measure to change the world. Yesterday it occurred to me that from Norway's side we have not yet managed to erase the debt that many countries have worked for us in connection with the shipping campaign - we have five-six countries yet. So achieving results in terms of debt cancellation seems to be difficult. For example, No. The Finance Minister in England, Gordon Brown, makes a proposal, and there is a proposal in the vote here, which I see the Government Party will not support, if at least have the issue of an international debt court settled. For perhaps the most important work now in terms of debt is to figure out how the debt occurred and how to get rid of it. Why, then, can the government parties not support such a proposal that is being made here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e125	There is a broad consensus in the Committee and between the parties to support the Government's action in participating in an international study on how to better deal with the debt, so I do not really see that there are major disagreements about this. I think the very important point here is that there is so much cross-political consensus that the debt is going to be additional, where we're different from a lot of other countries. I believe it is important for Norway to take the lead in marketing that mechanism externally, that other countries also ensure that their debt-reduction measures become additional. In addition, I think that the discussion of the last few weeks about debt lets and the argument that emerged from the Paris Club when it comes to the specific case illustrates the dilemma facing us in terms of the short-term and long-term effects of debt lets.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e132	The representative of Vallersnes said that development policy is far more than aid, and we can fully agree with that. Nevertheless, the message gives a signal about a lot of assistance. Much assistance has also been provided for many years, for example. Africa. Is the representative satisfied with the developments in Africa during the years we have given Norwegian aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e137	There's every reason to be satisfied with parts of what you've achieved, perhaps especially in other parts of the world, not least in Asia. But when the representative, Høglund, raises the question of whether you are satisfied with what has happened in Africa, most people have to agree that it is by no means. It's a lot of mess, and that's why it's so important that, on an occasion like this, at eight to nine years' notice, we assess whether we have the right tools through the development policy we're running, or whether it's going to be implemented. I think that the big message we have here is drawing up new paths to go, which, hopefully, will lead to better results in the most difficult area, namely Sub-Saharan Africa. We totally agree that a lot of things have been done, and a lot could have been done better, but it doesn't mean we're withdrawing and not going to participate. On the contrary, we seek to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e143	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e146	The announcement made last year by the Government is the first review of the development policy we have had in eight years. That's why it's a very important message, which it's been inspiring to work with in the Storting. It's been a very broad commitment around Storting's treatment. We have learned that the idea of solidarity is still strong in Norway. The strong commitment in Norway to international policy and the joy of the Norwegian people has not least been clearly expressed in the context of the river-wave disaster, which is being dealt with later today. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Development on the important peace agreement in Sudan. It is a pleasure that we now have a breakthrough and that Norway has contributed. At the same time, there is an important reminder that there are major challenges in several areas of the world. On the part of the Labour Party, we are very pleased to have a majority for a number of our heart issues, such as a fairer distribution, the need for new sources of funding to strengthen the UN, the need to focus on women in development policy, vaccines for children, the importance of the right to work and the importance of the environment for development. The government is committed to an important donor reform, which is supported by the Storting. The focus is on more efficient and targeted use of money, coordination between the various actors, responsibility for receiving and the transition to more use of budget support. The assumption is that countries themselves are actively fighting corruption and safeguarding human rights. The majority also largely agree that Norwegian long-term bilateral assistance should focus on the least developed countries. There is little doubt that Africa is where we find many of the countries that are most dependent on achieving the UN's Millennium Goals. At the same time, I am pleased that the Committee has focused on raising poor and marginalised groups, even outside the very poorest countries. The IMF and the World Bank are two very important actors and precursors in development policy. I would therefore like to make it clear that the Stortinget will invite these global institutions to an open consultation. It could give the Storting a direct answer to questions, while the Storting could express its views. Sustainable management of environmental and natural resources is a prerequisite for development. In the hearings, there was relatively strong criticism of the environmental impact of the aid. The environmental movement has helped to raise this issue high on the agenda. The government also recognises that there is an improvement potential in environmental efforts. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee has come together to ask the Government to draw up an action plan for the overall environmental effort. Poverty is merciless and hard-hitting. In particular, we know that it affects women and children. According to the World Health Organization, about 1.5 million children under the age of five die from diseases against which a vaccine can protect them. GAVI is a targeted disease control method. I hope the Development Minister will note that a unanimous committee believes that Norway needs to continue with a high level of contribution to the alliance. Education for all is a prerequisite for us to have a lasting effect on the assistance. Education aimed at girls is found to have a very positive impact on the development of society. A large majority of the world's poor are women. In the field of gender equality, progress is slow. The Committee considers that women’s rights must be given a much higher priority. It is therefore necessary for Norway to work towards a stronger gender perspective in the development of key national poverty strategies. The Committee asks the Government to give priority to the gender perspective in all processes at all levels. We have experience in the functioning of women-settled measures, and such measures should be continued and reinforced. HIV/AIDS is one of the most serious threats to development in the world today. A comprehensive development policy must address the major impacts of HIV/AIDS on public health, social development and stability. This requires financial resources, innovation and relevant knowledge. It is also important to work for cheap medicines to benefit the poor population. It links prejudices, denials and taboos to HIV/AIDS. These must be broken down, and here state leaders must be encouraged to contribute. This is where Nelson Mandela just walked in front of us. One of the main objectives of the UN Conference on Population and Development in Cairo ten years ago was universal access to prevention. Nevertheless, there are still a great many in developing countries that do not have access to prevention. This shows the need to strengthen sexual and reproductive health and, in particular, to contribute to increased availability of effective contraceptives and knowledge of their proper use. It is also important to focus on measures to combat violence and abuse against women in conflict. Here, the measures of the Security Council Resolution on women, peace and security must be followed up. The Committee has raised the problem of illegitimate debts even more. We ask the Government to work for international consultations that can bring forward new initiatives in this matter. In this way, Norway may be active in the further development of new and improved debt-laundering criteria. Developing countries themselves have for a long time highlighted the need for a new trade policy, pointing out that an absolute prerequisite for success in the fight against global poverty is a fairer trade policy. The rich countries must open up their markets and the poorest must be helped to develop a production that meets quality requirements. The Doha Round in the WTO is also called the Round of Developments, and the results of the negotiations may mean a great deal for development in many poor countries. There is a need for global binding legislation on corporate social responsibility. I would like to point out the work that is now taking place in the UN Commission on Human Rights. This is an important work and should be actively followed up by the Government. I would also ask the Minister for Development to comment on this work. The working party is satisfied with the device that the adjustment has been given. Solidarity has come as a guiding principle for Norwegian development policy, and distribution policy has been given a central place. Because we have focused on the need for cohesion, domestically, but also between rich and poor countries, on the left we have put forward proposals asking the Government to explore alternative forms of global taxation for the income of the United Nations system. If we want the target, we must also want the means. According to a recent UN report, a doubling of development assistance is needed to achieve the Millennium Goals. I think the rapporteur forgot to recommend the committee's unanimous proposal for a decision on an environmental action plan, so I will do so now. Then I take up the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party on global taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e197	The representative of Gunhild Eyegen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e202	There are significant elements of Norwegian assistance that can be used flexibly today. I am thinking of transitional assistance, humanitarian aid and peace and reconciliation efforts. Nevertheless, it is a majority comment, including: The Labour Party is involved, but where my party is not involved, which indicates that a wish that a share of the budget can be used flexibly and independently of the long-term development aid objectives, and that it can also include countries that do not immediately fall under the poverty criterion. I hope that doesn't mean that someone wants to weaken the main device of development aid, which has as its main heading poverty orientation, and wants to hear from the representative Eyeågen if that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e209	As we see in the vote, we in the Workers' Party support the main device to give priority to those countries that are far behind. And many of them are in Africa. Now it's a little bit unclear in the message how far the Government wants to go when it comes to prioritizing these areas, and we see that there is also a need for a significant degree of flexibility when disaster situations arise. We also know that we need to support peace and reconciliation in a number of countries. Not least, there are large groups who are very poor also in countries other than Africa and in the least developed countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e216	The representative pointed to one of the major dangers that threaten Africa and many regions, namely the HIV/AIDS epidemic, where it is a prerequisite for success in combating it. She pointed out that there are prejudices, denials and taboos in many countries, and that is right. Is it wise, then, to place even more emphasis on state aid, when you see that many of the governments who receive this assistance, for political reasons, are not themselves able to meet this HIV/AIDS challenge in a way that we find sensible and sound? Isn't it better to use other channels?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e221	Unfortunately, it does not seem that anyone has found the only good answer to how to combat this disaster. There we both need to spend more money and have new ideas, and we need to work actively. Then I think maybe state-of-state cooperation can be important to keep a living dialogue going, just to fight taboos and prejudices. That dialogue I am sure the Council of State is already in. I would like to stress once again that public access to prevention is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e226	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e229	The Progress Party considers it very important that Norway pursue a good development policy. For many reasons, it is important to contribute to people around the world being raised out of poverty and misery and to a better life. These are common objectives for all. We all want to contribute to democracy, respect for human rights and to free, open societies in which individuals, regardless of their assumptions, are properly cared for. Despite common objectives, the Progress Party has a different conclusion on one of the issues of conflict: whether we are continuing to increase or reduce aid allocations. Sometimes, or -- to say it in another way -- maybe a little well often I am met with a wonder about our u-help policy. Is there a lack of solidarity with the world's poor? Do we not care about those who find it difficult beyond the borders of the country? Yes, we care, and we believe it is crucial for our future in Norway too that the UN's Millennium Goals be met. But we do not believe that the policies described by the majority lead to the goal. If it were that massive assistance year after year gave growth and development, it would have been for us just to jump on the train and contribute as best we could. But it's not like that. Assistance does not necessarily lead to development. Many times it does the opposite: it reduces the possibility of development. When a country that is among the countries receiving the most assistance increases its GDP by 1 pst. more assistance, leading to a reduction in growth per year. built-in between 3 and 4 pst. i average. For some countries there is even a negative trend. Increases in aid also do not contribute to more democracy and better authorities in beneficiary countries. So you'll be able to find exceptions, and you'll also find projects that work very well -- of course. The main point is that the aid as such does not do what it is supposed to do, namely to lift millions of poor people out of poverty. Instead, several countries remain ‘client countries’. They fail to make the necessary democratic reforms. They cannot open up the economy, and they can continue to make extensive use of protectionism. These omissions serve a few, and the vast majority continue to suffer. Norwegian policy - although it was never meant to do so - delays, hinders and stops development. Looking at most African countries that have received assistance for a number of years, it is not that the explosive growth or well-functioning democracy is shut down. And when you haven't succeeded, you have to ask yourself if it's right to continue with just even larger doses of old medicine, or if there might be a need to think new. I want to include a short quote from the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee in 1986, Kåre Willoch: ‘This includes, inter alia: questions about Norway’s continued confidence in and support for the Nyera regime in Tanzania have contributed to postponing the necessary policy changes there and thereby indirectly to the detriment of them.’ When the majority stands for a policy that obviously has not worked out and that, for Africa, has not given any lasting blessings, is there anyone who asks the same majority if they lack solidarity, if they really care? No--on the contrary, they are praised, especially by each other, for how generous they are. The higher the numbers you can get, the more generous you are. And so, when we allow ourselves to say it as it is, that aid does not give the results the advertising promises, but that the poor remain just as poor, that human rights are violated as much, that corruption is being reinforced, we are being attacked for being unsolidarian. We are fully aware that open markets alone do not save the world's poor. We understand that some assumptions need to be put in place. That is why we have been working in recent years to use debt relief increasingly in relation to developing countries. We also want the debate on illegitimate help very welcome and believe it must be obvious that governments and banks who with open eyes lend funds to dictatorial regimes must understand that they are running a significant risk, not to talk about the moral aspect. U-help has also changed in many ways. I'm absolutely sure it's better today than 30 years ago. But that doesn't change our main score. Part of the u-help, the one to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and meet other serious health challenges, such as child vaccination, is for us to consider emergency care. It's an area where we have to and will set up. Here, too, we will be critical of who is going to deal with these funds. In the case of state aid, which seems to be increasing in scope, it's not a way we want to go in. We believe, unfortunately, that helps to maintain and even to promote corruption. We are uncertain whether the money is coming out and whether it contributes to the necessary reforms. We believe that in important areas of health, we need to find other channels, which we also do, but that we need to use these channels for what they are worth. And we are pleased to record that there are a number of global fund schemes that we believe are doing this in a better way than a traditional state of state aid. Despite the disagreement between the Progress Party and the rest of the Committee on a number of important points, we have nevertheless sought agreement where it has been possible, and we are in several areas satisfied with the direction of development policy. We openly and honestly recognise that there is no black-and-white, nor in development policy, and that there are shades. However, I found reason to stress what I started by saying. Finally, I hope that this communication can form the basis for a closer follow-up by the Storting on the different aspects of development and aid policy, and that, as some claim, the Storting has almost abdicated itself in the interests of development policy. I have always experienced the Government and the Government as interested in discussing these issues. Now they push the ball back on our track half and hope that this message and its treatment can be the beginning of a much closer follow-up and interest from the political team inside and outside this hall on important questions for Norway and the outside world.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e268	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e271	The representative, Høglund, had a play to play on trying to raise the economy in the poorest countries up by paying them off, something that everyone is all about. So think Höglund that the Norwegian economic effort for the poorest countries has made it impossible for them to move forward. But there are questions that Morten Höglund could also ask. One thing is that according to the fact that Norway has a rather small economy, our percentages aren't going to be so much measured in dollars and cents. If Morten Höglund looks at what Norway can deliver, he sees that there is little we can do besides give money. And the question to ask then is, if other countries had done as Norway and given so much of their economy to the poorest countries, maybe it had started to work? It's an important control question to ask. And on the basis of the report that was presented yesterday, it's the proposal that very many people now take up, easy to give more money to speed up the economy. So the problem is to get money. We're going to open markets and import more goods, but from a Norwegian stand, there's little we can do. There are limits to how much meat we can eat here in Norway to raise the poorest countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e279	Norway is not big whether we see it one way or the other. I like the signal to open markets. I believe that the best contribution for developing countries had been about the United States and the EU had taken some real steps forward, by removing export subsidies and opening up its markets. It would have been a much better handshake than putting on more money. What I tried to point out is that an ever-increasing aid has actually led to a negative development in some beneficiary countries. So I'm afraid that even more money will continue this negative development and not give the necessary reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e284	The Progress Party is critical of Norwegian development policy, and that is, of course, law. The right has also been critical of Norwegian development policy and aid policy. I think it is important that we all ask ourselves the very important question: Does Norwegian aid development create? The Progress Party is particularly critical to state aid. Here, I believe that the Progress Party has not fully followed the hour, because there has been a great deal of progress in development policy since the mid-1990s. Several studies from the 1990s show that developing countries, by receiving assistance, could use their own resources in a way that did not contribute to growth and poverty reduction. But here, the world community, the World Bank and the IMF have come in with new instruments, for example. National strategies for poverty reduction, which are also the basis of the state of aid provided by Norway. Does the Progress Party think this is a useful tool, or does it not feel that these national strategies for poverty reduction at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e291	Once the majority has decided to grant state aid, it must be sought to get it as effective and as good as possible. Of course, this will also vary from state to state. The existence of such national poverty strategies is an appropriate tool. However, we believe that assistance and unhelp should be channelled elsewhere than from the Norwegian authorities to the authorities of e.g. African countries. But if you want to do this, you need to have a follow-up strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e296	I think the progress party is involved in a lot in this setting. I thought the Advance Party should be praised. They are in debt-laundering, an action plan for the environment, and not least evaluation and control. Assistance, trade conditions and debt are perhaps the most important elements in reducing poverty. One is on two of these elements, but not on the last one, on assistance. So one is not on the volume. I interpret the Progress Party so that one will improve the assistance, even though Höglund also states that he sometimes does not believe in assistance at all. Clearly, there are examples of aid actually working against its purpose. But if we look at the volume, we're just talking about pocket cheese. We're talking about $60 billion spent on assistance every year. The countries of the south spend nine times more on paying their debts. Here's the Progress Party saying we have to do something. But why can't you do anything about the volume, when we see that a lot of countries don't really set up? If you could get these countries up to half of Norway's level, it would have helped.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e303	I would like to refer to our remarks in the setting. We point out that, at least up to one to two years ago, there was a reduction in aid internationally. I'm sure the representative Jacobsen didn't think it was positive. In the 10-15 years we've left behind, there wasn't any big aid increase. In this period, however, the number of poor people on the planet was reduced, both in real and absolute numbers. This representative has not seen evidence of the increase in aid provided by poverty. At a micro level, good and positive results of assistance can be found. But you say if you put money on, it'll give you results. That is not the experience and the knowledge we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e308	The progressing party does not leave the long-term assistance any honour and says that it has been largely more damaging than beneficial. The vast majority in this room, those within the United Nations system and – perhaps more interesting for the Progress Party – institutions that the World Bank and the IMF believe that education is the key to development, especially education for girls. In order to try to go a little further into the seams, I would simply ask: Does the Progress Party believe that education projects for girls, through state-to-state aid, have been more harmful than beneficial?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e313	Education for girls is important. We have also been involved in comments on the attitude of women and children as far as we can. I don't have enough knowledge about the details of the state-aid associated with it. But my experience and the knowledge I have, nevertheless, suggest that the aid reaches even further and is even more useful if it goes through other organisations, through other channels, than a state of state-aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e318	The positive first. The representative Morten Höglund is a man of good will, and he has been intrigued that there is on time innovation in the development politicism of the Progress Party--that's good. But then he has to defend some point of view that, in my view, does not hold the goal. What other means does the representative, Høglund, see to be able to use to improve the governance, in order to get the regime to participate in a process that changes practice, if not part of the dialogue you have in connection with assistance? And let's take another thought experiment: it might be that many of us think that volunteer organizations run effective assistance. If one channelled all assistance the way in which we have seen examples works well, is the representative of Höglund willing to maintain the level of assistance and even increase it, because it looks like it works, even in relation to the representative of Höglund himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e327	If the conditions of state aid were such that we felt that one state after another carried out necessary reforms in the judiciary, on the front of democracy, on human rights, etc., and that this really gave results - yes, of course we would be involved. But what we're experiencing is that the countries that are moving in a positive direction are changing, because the need for change comes from within, because it's a pressure from the population, because it's forward-looking politicians who see that it makes sense to go in a positive direction. Finally, of course, we will deal with knowledge and experience. And where we see that things are useful, we're willing to look at them in terms of indebtedness. Five years ago it was an area that we weren't willing to look at -- today we are. Yes, we take in new knowledge, and we'll deal with it gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e337	Just a little comment for the last speaker, Høglund. There have been several organizations in there. I understand that one would rather have voluntary organisations to do the job, and one has asked volunteer organisations if they have something that works so well that one could multiple help, and almost only waste money into those projects because they are doing so well. I'm going to agree with Høglund that one has not got the same good answer to it. So if something's worked in a country, just a bunch of money can be brought in. And so it could be done in many, many other countries. So for the article. We have been dealing with this matter for a long time in the committee, and I think it has been done thoroughly. We have written about both the one and the other, and finally we came to an attitude that is at least acceptable to us on the SV side, not least this with an action plan for environmental action and a debt court. It is clear that there are different starting points and different thoughts that underlie this setting - including what came from the Government. For example, poverty is almost understood as a disease of deficiency, where an analysis of power relationships and relationships between different groups as key elements for understanding and explaining poverty is absent. This applies both within and between countries. Whether a person understands poverty as being part of society's development, and that important groups are actually tending to maintain groups of poor and poor resources, comes a perspective of common struggle in a different perspective. Corruption is another example. It is seen as a phenomenon, almost independent of social structures and power relationships. But it becomes more understood as a phenomenon or a property attached to an unethical individual. This prevents an understanding of corruption as a structural phenomenon that exists because important power groups look at it lightly. The solutions to this message are based almost on moral upgrading, assuming that everyone has a common interest in removing the problems of corruption. Such a starting point makes good analysis and solutions difficult. A holistic message should also have a historical dimension, where one looks more closely at assistance as a social phenomenon. It had highlighted the way in which assistance came about, the kind of geopolitical interests involved, and the types of interests that attracted assistance in different directions with regard to countries, regions, channels, sectors and fields. What has happened, for example: The fall of colonial times and the fall of the Berlin Wall meant the provision of assistance from various actors? How do you create and change a global trend and the arrangements for assistance? What kind of significance does the extremely fast, outwardly imposed, changing devices have for certain countries in relation to long-termity, planning and implementation? A continuous historical approach would allow for better self-recognition and understanding of what assistance actually means. We should not forget that 50 years ago we believed in the welfare state. We thought that when it came, crime would be gone in our rich country. We also believed that when we only had some assistance for 30-40 years, the problems would actually resolve. This has proved to be a failure to vote. A central point of reference for the UN’s Millennium Goals is the establishment of consensus both internationally, nationally and locally when it comes to the fight against poverty. I see it as both crazy and veiling. First of all, it's crazy when it comes to the thousandths. A series of important thousand-year targets are not affected in these measures, such as: issues related to reproductive health, sexual mutilation, access to prevention and self-determined and safe abortion. That the missing ones in the measurements are hardly random, but have a connection that some actors don't want with these goals, there's no doubt. The right to work or to land does not take up either. In addition, the thousands of years are saying little about which tool you need to use to achieve the goal. Policy choices can often be just as important as those measures. It should also be clear that human rights must be superior to the Millennium. Many have also learned that thousands of years are hardly realistic - even in relation to the time perspective as a set-up. Secondly, it sounds like when everyone's a few things about the painting, there's a common policy. This is revealing, and at international level, a range of structural conditions are increasing between poor and rich countries and regions. These structures are not random, but reflect global interests in power and power. We talk about trading conditions, participation in different venues, impact on important decision-making processes, debt policy, distribution, etc. From SV's side we mean, for example. that an international initiative should be taken to determine how to modernise and democratise the WTO as an organisation and as a forum for international negotiation processes, where the developing countries have legitimate representation and influence. Of course, the reform that is going on in the United Nations must also be supported. From the government's side, there is little criticism of the World Bank and other Bretton Woods institutions. It appears that a bank accepts its rhetoric about what is said in the ‘policy’ departments of the bank, and sees the search light less on how the bank’s operational departments operate in practice. There is a forest of research material on this subject, where the World Bank in particular supports programmes related to distribution, poverty orientation, the environment, social profile, etc. is criticised. It is therefore important that we create a more open political debate on how Norway should work in relation to these institutions and what requirements should be attached to meeting and filling activities. One should e.g. have a direct political representative in the IMF and not, as is currently the case, a representative from Norway Bank designated by the Ministry of Finance. This is the background to our proposal to ‘present proposals for representation and negotiating mandates in the case of capital restockings in international financial institutions’. So there are a number of international structures and processes that systematically create increasing distinctions between poor and rich countries and between peoples, and where one feels that the message does not go far enough when it comes to giving concessions, influence and rights to developing countries. At national and local level, we also know that different groups in developing countries have different interests and different access to decision-making processes. They need to be able to join and participate in different forums. Not least in PRSP negotiations and through decentralisation processes, there must be a poor ability to be heard and to participate. In theory, poverty reduction plans, the PRSP, must be a better alternative than the old structural adjustment programmes. But it's also important to emphasize the similarity between these. Experience and research clearly show that the World Bank and the IMF are too much allowed to exploit coordination processes to push forward a neo-liberal privatisation and trade policy - despite the needs of the poor developing countries - and thus to a large extent represents a continuation of the old structural adjustment programmes. I also see that poor, vulnerable, delayed and critical groups are not involved in PRSP processes. Coordination work has also led to investment in fewer sectors, and one experiences that cross-cutting fields of development, such as: environment, women, culture, child labour, etc., benefits from heavier sectors such as energy, infrastructure, health, education and industry. PRSP processes therefore need to be strongly improved, and one must pay particular attention to the local ownership and involvement of groups that are still outside. It's a crossroads that many of the more successful middle-income countries - Brazil, China, India, Thailand and South Africa - have actually opposed the PRSP processes, precisely on the basis of a desire to build future sayings on a more independent basis. Supply coordination is therefore – and continues to be – a two-faced sword, where the importance of simplification and efficiency must be weighed up against problems associated with heavier donor management of the funds. Such a twin looks a little bit small in what comes from the Government. A starting point from a legal perspective, and you can ask yourself, "Who's right?" This legal perspective does not guarantee solidarity or fair, poverty-oriented development. A perspective has to be nuanced and open for both collective and individual dishes. Important collective rights to land, to natural resources and to water are often central to poor and vulnerable groups’ access to resources in their struggle to survive and to obtain results. These are often threatened by individual, privatized dishes. Such a collective perspective on justice is important in relation to processes of land reform and for the decentralisation of power and governance in relation to forest and land resources. I will deal with the proposal from the Centre Party and the SV that is included in the set.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e374	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e379	The representative Jacobsen mentioned the crossword twist. It's a strange invention, by Aasmund Olavsson Vinje, who talked about laughing with one eye and crying with the other. It's a pretty demanding exercise. I read SV's special comments in the setting - it's part of the comments that SV is all alone about - so that they're closer to another of our countrymen, namely Peer Gynt, who had the following maxim when it comes to international relations: I also get on the road, but protests for the whole world. As regards the relationship with the PRSP and donor co-ordination, SV is involved in the unanimous committee formulation that points to the significant progress made and also points to significant corrections that make this an important instrument to bet on. But then you add to your own particular comment, where you say that you want to be careful about this, and you don't want to have ‘excessive focus on donor coordination’. Now no one is going in to exaggerate, but what's the SV's position? Is one for or against this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e388	I think Inger Hagerup's words "be impatient" can be immersive if one should put into a dictatorship what SV thinks about this. This with gypsy coordination is a two-piece sword, for at the same time it's good to have it. Then a back-up can be done. One can verify what has been done, if we did what we said we should do, etc. But if she gets too massive, it can actually be difficult in many poor countries to come up with the idea of it. It may be that the contact between an assistance office, e.g. in a city in Angola and Oslo becomes closer than between Angola and the Angolan district where gynaec coordination is actually to be carried out. That's why we've got a twin and we think that the gypsy coordination needs to be taken up on a broad basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e395	My question also concerns PRSP. It is probably useful concerns SV come with when warning against neoliberal privatisation and trade policies. They are understandable on the basis of the SV's policy. Nevertheless, is it not true that many African states have been plagued by old socialist thinking for years, and that it is time to get rid of it, and for example. national monopolies, which are only for the benefit of individuals in the elite? Can this not be disposed of for the benefit of the people? All such demands are not of evil, are they?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e400	There's no doubt that part of the so-called old-socialist stuff of thought that was found, and that, in part, maybe also exists in Africa, was part of the cold war, which I don't think is particularly conducive to development. I believe that what can be developmental is cooperative, but also an active state that pursues a policy based on what the people of these countries themselves think. When it comes to the PRSP, the problem is that there is too little participation of women, of children and young people and also of small farmers. But perhaps the most fundamental thing in many countries is that there must be a political struggle to get them to participate. One must, as in Norway, fight to get the floor, one must fight to participate in the political exchange, precisely because political leaders in poor countries must take care of their voters, of their peasants, of their women, and not of us as they are with the big dollar settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e407	It's commendable, the quote that Jacobsen's representative had from Inger Hagerup, "be impatient." But isn't there a certain problem then that one issues absolutely all the areas that the development message and the setting are about, where one is in doubt about the answer? How in all the world can you do something about not picking out some areas for which you are at least going to work? It's missing at the millennials. It's quite clear. But where one has been a few things about something, it's probably important to get it done. So I'm surprised that the representative Jacobsen, who represents a party that has the motto of being an impatient human being, comes first with the twin. I myself represent a tradition in the people's movements that clearly has a lot of ambiguity, but the jam also has to gather around a portion that is the right to action. Sometimes some motions, like SV, can have common goals, even if they are different. Here we need a goal to end poverty, misery and injustice. That's not the twin answer!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e414	I'm very happy that the representative Lilletun and I are on the same cultural basis. I can assure the representative Lilletun that today I have actually drawn myself together. At the bottom of my office there are 20-30 concrete proposals. They never took me to the committee. I would have liked them to be put in as concrete suggestions on how different things could have been even better. Today, however, we have, after all, received a number of figures for an action plan for the environment. We think it will hit and do the environmental work from Norway much better. We also think it's good to figure out whether to introduce an international indebtedness court. We know that the poor countries actually pay nine times more in debt interest and in debt repayments, nine times more, than what we give of pocket money in aid. The next time we discuss this, I will take several of the 24-25 suggestions I have lying down in my office. Then Lilletun will be with them and vote for them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e421	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e424	I look forward to the next round. This is how we tend to handle a development message every ten years. I must admit that my perspective here on the house is somewhat shorter, but I thank you for the call to continue for so long that we can do it. I would like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office. It's quite right that we've had a long treatment. It has been a comprehensive treatment. I would like to commend the case spokespersons, who have integrated in a brilliant way a very wide section of Organisation Norway and a wide range of Aid Norway. We have had many processes in the committee that have led to an attitude that I think we have reason to be satisfied with and that I believe will bring this policy forward. I would also like to pay tribute to the main speaker for the opposition, Gunhild Eye, for what she had today. I thought that in a good way gave the main focus and co-ordinated this debate. So to the very current day. About 165,000 people have now lost their lives as a result of river waves in Southeast Asia - an enormous tragedy. I admire the giraffe and the commitment that has been to help the victims. My hope now is that out of this we can create a lasting mobilisation for international solidarity. Emergency relief in the event of crises is needed, but the continuing poverty crisis requires additional assistance. Many places, not least in Africa, people live in an almost permanent disaster situation. The increase we have received in the level of assistance this year must therefore be sustained. If we are to achieve the UN's Millennium Goal to halve the share of the world's poor by 2015, the assistance must go further. Aid efforts in Asia must not lead to rich countries cutting aid elsewhere. Mike Sackett, Regional Director of the UN Food Programme in southern Africa, has already experienced that a donor has cancelled a meeting to prioritize the work in Asia. When Legs without Borders ask that gifts no longer be earmarked for the flood disaster, it is bravely done. They want to be able to spend the money elsewhere in the world where the nauda is big. We have to be equally brave and ask for more money and equal commitment to other poor countries and people. I would like to mention Sudan in particular. The peace agreement now signed ends a 21-year civil war. About 2 million people have lost their lives, and 4 million are driven away. I will, as also the representative Eyeågen did, pay tribute to our development minister, Hilde Frafjord Johnson, who has worked for many years to bring about this peace agreement. The agreement will stabilise the whole region. Now the refugees can come home, and the construction of a war-torn country can take off. For that, a money is needed. Norway shall organise a donor country conference for Sudan. Here, the international community has to make up money. This will be a test of our solidarity with the world's poorest. Sudan and Darfur are not paying the bill for the flood disaster. For this reason, it is so important that the money that goes to the flaumo from Asia is given as extra rewards. In connection with Mr Höglund's view of assistance, I would say that Norway, as a nation and NGOs, has worked in Sudan this year, has created a network that trusts both sides of the conflict and that the Minister of Development has been able to use to get these parties to the negotiating table. It would not be useful to get there without trust being built in advance, just by means of assistance. The starting point for all development work is that the poor in the south are entitled to justice and to their human rights rights. It's not about wealth from us rich in the north. Development policy is something far more than giving money to help. Development policies are aimed at facilitating relations between the national and international levels in order to improve the future of the poor. The government points out four fronts that we have to bet on. The first front is that there must be a global partnership. This means that the countries of the world need to cooperate better. The trade, debt and investment frameworks must be fair. Both for small countries, such as Norway, and for developing countries, it is important that an open, strong and prudent regulatory framework is found to prevent the strongest of its rightful debts. For the poorest, aid will still be needed. However, countries on the way out need to export goods to other countries rather than passively accept assistance. Western countries must open their markets to products from developing countries and not compete with subsidies for poor countries' output and exports. Furthermore, developing countries need to reform their system of governance. That's the other front. It is the developing countries' own policies that determine to the seventh and last whether we are happy in the fight against poverty. Money does not create well-being but through good governance, a state apparatus that works, democracy and respect for human rights. Poor people devour a set of rules that take their needs seriously. Corruption is a serious obstacle to development. The powers of government in developing countries must show a strong willingness to give priority to their own poor. Without it, the assistance does not work. Therefore, it is positive that Norway is at the forefront of anti-corruption work. The third front concerns donor reform. There must be a strong increase in aid. We can reach the thousandth anniversary. The report from the Millennium Project shows this. However, funding needs to be strengthened and, above all, aid needs to be more effective and targeted. Failure to provide development assistance may, in the worst case, exacerbate the situation. We must concentrate and coordinate the means of action, and national powers must be in the leadership. Today, many of those who run aid projects are jumping into each other's legs. Too many isolated small projects from various donors are a burden for the recipient countries. We have to get away from too many ear-marked project tools and over to larger framework permissions. When the recipient countries have to write several thousand reports to different donors each year, this requires time and money that could instead have been used to build up education and health services for the poor. When it comes to coordination, you have to look at what is rational in each country. The aim is that aid should be effective and that one should have the most poverty reduction possible for each krona. The last front of the work against poverty is the mobilisation of business and voluntary organisations. Business needs to be involved in disseminating skills and creating economic growth. The public can't do it alone. In the case of establishment and investment in developing countries, enterprises must be encouraged to take social responsibility and safeguard human rights. It is important that poor people can work out of poverty with their own talent and resources. I will specifically mention microcredit. With small loans, millions of people, women and men, have started their business. The lenders are often organised as voluntary organisations. One of these, Jamii Bora, based on the Mathare slum in Nairobi, Kenya, has brought over 60,000 poor people throughout Kenya as members and borrowers since the start in 1999. The organisation reaches poor people who would otherwise never have received money from established banks in the country. The Christian People's Party will work to improve access to that kind of credit for the poor. Voluntary organisations often have very good local skills and cooperate closely with their partners in developing countries. This contributes to an active and diverse civil society, which is a commitment to democracy and the fight against poverty. In Norway, we have extensive cooperation with voluntary organisations. This is positive because we get greater capacity and width in development work. We must respect their specific and independent role, but all actors in development policy must align their work with the increased national and international coordination of assistance. Contributions must maintain high quality, be cost-effective and use and develop local capacity where possible. It's about getting the most out of each of the heads that are given, and one is based on solutions that are resilient over time. Coordinating doesn't mean that everything should be completely streamlined. We don't want to emulate our organisational structure, but to give room for new groups to engage in development policy. Only in this way can we ensure commitment, creativity and lack. The Committee has also been consulted on the recommendations for an environmental plan and on a number of other areas. It shows that a process like that we've had is producing results. I'm overconfident that the Council of State and the Government will do well to get rid of the totality that is now in the plural setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e461	The Christian People's Party is concerned with redistribution and believes it is natural to search for new sources of funding that can help balance differences between poor and rich and strengthen the UN and other institutions financially. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party go beyond the majority in this case. We refer to the international discussion on Tobin taxes, carbon taxes and taxes on arms trade, and we have made a proposal in the vote asking the Government to investigate alternative forms of global taxation for the income of the United Nations system. In the past, the Christian People's Party has been more open to assessing carbon taxes and other international environmental taxes. I have noticed that the Minister for the Environment has taken action against CO2 emissions from fuels for use in international aviation. When we know that a number of rich countries in the near future are fulfilling their monetary commitments, and that the UN in a recent report points out that there is a need for twice as much money to achieve the Millennium Goals, I will ask the representative Lilletun why the Christian People's Party, which in other contexts is engaged in distribution, will not even be involved in an investigation into alternative forms of global cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e474	I agree with Mr Eyeågen that more and wider sources of income are needed to finance international actions, not least through the UN. Me and the Christian People's Party are also very pleased with that, among other things. France, but also a number of other nations, has taken note of the recent discussion on these issues. Now it has been found that the Tobin tax would be difficult to implement in practice. Furthermore, it has become more and more clear that for individual countries the implementation of any of these will not work. It would be to put yourself in a pretty hopeless situation. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is confident that the Government will take part in this debate. We don't need to instruct our own government, but we're going to work inside the government to participate in the work to find out good international funding arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e483	I would like to ask the representative Lilletun about this with charity. More from the Christian People's Party, including the Minister of Development, thought it was very important to say many times that we have to remember that this is not universal. That's not charity we're doing. Nevertheless, I would like to ask about it. My definition of charity is that in the rich world we will somehow depend on the poor to show how good we are. It's in a way that we throw ourselves up to being a skin healer like that, and I have experienced it myself to have been from time to time. Could he have defined a little bit more of what charity is? In political philosophy we have the German philosopher Kant Skal be Hegel, cf. The correction of Jacobsen, page 1381, which talks about the master-knek relationship, where the jack continues to be jack just because he allows the master to be lord. This is the basis for the political struggle which has ours here in Europe. In Norway, we feel better about holding a hat. The basis for not continuing was, of course, to start a political struggle. The question will then be: can aid, if it is charitable, in a way seem to obscure both European and Norwegian political developments?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e497	The representative Jacobsen is in the philosophical corner today, and it might have been exciting to have had more than one minute to consult to reason highly on the recordings coming here. I must say that I hope that I cannot be counted as a sanctuary, and I must say that I am also in doubt if I can call myself holy. I am opposed to looking at assistance as charity. It's simply an injustice in the world with regard to structures and resources as we've been given them to us, etc., and that injustice is necessary to do something in relation to it. The representative Jacobsen himself described some of the things that are obvious unfair in these structures. Therefore, it is important for us to be told: it is good that people will give of a good heart, but development work -- assistance -- is not just about using their good heart. It's actually about creating justice in an unfair value, at least greater justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e504	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e507	There is a long time to go between giving the Storting the opportunity to deal fully with Norwegian policies towards developing countries. It's approaching nine years ago, despite being a significant international contributor. That's exactly why it's important that we get a real round on this right now. One will, of course, take the view that there is a great deal of agreement in Stortinget with regard to development policy. We also have a Minister for Development who has great confidence. With this starting point, it won't be the high temperature of debates like this, but it doesn't necessarily mean it's not important for that reason. The centre party does not intend to use this debate to talk about everything we agree on, because it is very much. What we want to use our measured minutes to do is say something about what we would like to have seen in the message another device, how we would have wanted the message to be more complete in some areas. We believe that if we're going to be able to push the development debate forward, if we're going to be able to get the aid to become more effective in the long term, we're going to be able to put aid into not only a broad social framework within individual countries, but also a global perspective. One of the missing issues in the Development Communication is a deeper discussion of the relationship between development policy and other parts of foreign policy. This concerns both the relationship between classical security policy and peace-building work and the relationship between trade policy and development policy. We would have liked to have seen a more integrated perspective. We should also have liked to have seen that we had a more thorough discussion of which instruments and channels work most effectively in different contexts. Bilateral assistance, multilateral assistance and assistance through voluntary organisations have different advantages and limitations that are relevant to how we implement development policy. We hope we can get back to this kind of discussion later. Our most important collection of messages, however, is that it does not create a good enough link between peace and security on the one hand and development on the other. The High Level Panel of the United Nations states that poverty is the most serious threat to peace and security today, and that development is the basis of our collective security. Extreme poverty, financial crises, major disease outbreaks and major environmental damage undermine the very foundations of many countries and open societies to chaos, organised crime and terrorism. Conflict creates suffering. It costs enormous sums for the world community to try to clean up. Poverty leads to conflict and conflict is the main obstacle to development. This is by no means new, and it is not new that the High Level Panel of the United Nations points this out. But it's just as important that it's done, because we haven't been able to break the spiral of death that we're talking about here. There is definitely a need for a completely different thinking in relation to the ability to prevent conflicts. The UN has very special prerequisites to contribute to a more effective policy of prevention, because, in spite of everything, the UN enjoys great trust as an unhindered partner. At least there is no one other than the United Nations who is more confident about meeting these kinds of challenges. After all, the international community has gradually developed reasonably good mechanisms for dealing with a conflict once it has arisen. We have also gradually become better at dealing with post-conflict situations in the international community. We have instruments both in relation to the fact that the crisis is there and in relation to putting in place post-conflict measures. However, what the international community is exceptionally poor at is the means and strategies to prevent conflict. I had wanted and hoped and believed that the message we have received had helped to indicate how we should move forward in order to create conflict prevention strategies. However, the importance of seeing the context of international policy as a whole is obvious. It is clearly important in view of the strategies to be put in place for development policy. This is why the Central Party has proposed a broader review and a new communication to the Storting where we could see the links between development, poverty reduction, the environment and the wider security policy challenges. But here, unfortunately, we can't get the majority with us. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the notification has a simplified production process in respect of international trade. This has been the subject of the communication on globalisation, and it is not so much new to say in this area. But it is a fact that international trade can be used both to increase global well-being and to increase poverty. International trade can contribute to cohesion and can contribute to increased disparities. Trade can help improve the environment and can help destroy the environment; it can help raise ethical standards and it can help reduce ethical standards. The design of the trading system therefore becomes very crucial in the areas covered by the trading system, and in relation to the broad development policy we would need a more nuanced debate on these issues. We would also need a major debate on which sectors should be included as part of the trading system. We know that many developing countries are skeptical about the scope of negotiating issues to be implemented in the future, and we believe that Norway should be more upright and supported the well-founded objections of developing countries to constantly including new sectors in the trading system, at least at this point in time. We would have wanted a far more offensive line from the Government, linked to showing transparency in relation to changes in the WTO negotiating system. By the fact that negotiations are held to the same extent as in the past in closed rooms, etc., the negotiations do not receive the attention that we believe they should have. The government is not offensive enough on behalf of developing countries to deal with these issues. Finally, in connection with the flood disaster, many proposals have been made on emergency aid funds. Sick people who have spent a lot of their lives preventing a lot of money coming into the treasury, have now become rusty on behalf of the state. It is very much positively linked to the will we now see to assist in the flood disaster, but I also have to say that what we have seen in the late days underpins the fact that the international community is able to mobilise resources in relation to the disasters. But what we definitely don't do is mobilise enough resources for the long-term assistance, and I hope that we will be able to keep the focus on the need for the increased long-term assistance, and that the short-term and momentary tyranny is not now taking over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e533	The Left supports the Government's proposals for development notification and the Government Parties' comments from the Foreign Affairs Committee. The message well describes the challenges we face in achieving the UN's Millennium Goals. In recent years, there has been a growing international consensus that poverty reduction as part of the implementation of human rights must be at the heart of development policy. This was reflected in the autumn of 2000 when the UN Millennium Goals were adopted as a declaration setting out concrete targets for combating world poverty and setting an ambitious target for the achievement of the Millennium Goals by the end of 2015. The left agrees that the UN Millennium Goals should be the basis of Norwegian development policy. The Left supports the majority of the Committee's view that their not being sufficiently integrated into the world economy is a serious obstacle to the development of poor countries. Although the Centre Party and the SV do not agree, it is appropriate to recall that the last WTO round was called the ‘Development Round’ and that the framework currently contained in the proposals is an important breakthrough, whether it also presents challenges for Norway. In order to contribute to the development of poor countries, international institutions need to be strengthened and democratised. Norway must be a driver for continuing the reform processes of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The policies of institutions need to be adapted to long-term development and poverty reduction in the countries in crisis, not only changes to achieve short-term economic objectives without regard to the impact on their citizens. At the same time, the World Bank and the IMF must impose environmental requirements and place more emphasis on the ability of governments to democratise and social reforms. In order to ensure a responsible borrowing policy, national and international financial and credit institutions need to be strengthened and opened up. It is necessary to extend cooperation between central banks. The left considers that Norway should support international cooperation to find new measures to regulate undesirable behaviour in the global economy, for example. global environmental taxes on aircraft. The Left believes that one of the most important things is to work towards ensuring international competition and countering trends in global monopolies and cartels by promoting anti-monopoly measures, for example. The United Nations system, the WTO and the G8 Group, for the desire for global competition surveillance. The Left agrees with a majority of the Committee that a reform of the UN to make the World Organisation more legitimate and effective is a necessary but not sufficient condition for effective management of the global security threats today. The cancellation of debt is perhaps one of the most important individual measures for the development of many poor countries. Norway has its share of the responsibility for the debt crisis, including: through Norwegian shipping export campaigns in the 1970s. Debt relief must be speeded up for those countries that have shown a strong commitment to reform and poverty reduction. There must also be solutions for countries outside the HIPC initiative. Norway should consider whether unilateral Norwegian debt cancellation can also apply to middle-income countries, and intensify efforts towards other creditor countries to coordinate further debt cancellation. International credit supervision mechanisms should be established to ensure a responsible lending policy nationally and internationally. Left supports the Government’s view of contributing to an international study of ‘illegal debt’ carried out by relevant multilateral institutions, the aim of which is to make practical recommendations. The world's poor countries must have greater access to the world market. Norway must be a driving force for the Doha Round in the WTO to effectively safeguard developing countries' interests, including: by binding zero duties on LDC products in the WTO. Norway must also provide assistance to countries wishing to strengthen its exports, so that increased exposure to world trade is combined with institution building and social reforms that contribute to poverty reduction. Countries seeking new investment need to build confidence in political and economic stability. In addition to promoting greater stability and accountability in global financial markets, Norway needs to increase assistance for institution and competence building in beneficiary countries. In particular, it is important for poor countries to have access to new technologies such as IT. Work on international guidelines for investors and host countries in an investment relationship must also be strengthened, for example: in the OECD or the UN. The left joins the Government's objective of raising the level of assistance to at least 1 pst. of GNI. In addition, it is more important that development policies develop a high degree of coordination and harmonisation between different donors. Assistance is still a necessary tool in development policy. The left agrees that the objective of stepping up assistance to the poorest countries must be maintained. However, an increasing number of donors suggest that assistance needs to be better coordinated between donor countries. Assistance must be directed towards countries that are willing to implement sound economic policies and want sustainable and democratic development. It must be a requirement that assistance be used for actions which have a real national base in the co-operation country. More of Norwegian aid must be directed towards democracy and the strengthening of human rights. Democracy and human rights are essential prerequisites for more socially equitable development. It is also an important prerequisite for economic development. Without a system of governance in which the population can throw its leaders at elections, there is no confidence in stable social and political development, which is once again necessary to ensure good investment and production. Norway must therefore make strict demands for respect for democracy and human rights vis-à-vis its countries of cooperation. Furthermore, the local work on democracy and human rights of non-governmental organisations must be given higher priority. Micro-credit schemes need to be more complementary to traditional assistance, not least because there is a recognition of the dangers of extensive assistance. The left agrees that Norwegian development assistance should be based on the assumption that development in a country in the first place is created from within. Developing countries need to take greater responsibility for their own development. To this end, international actors also have to deal with and align with the leadership of developing countries. National ownership must become real. Here, reform of international aid is very central. At country level, this concerns the coordination and harmonisation of donor countries’ efforts. In the opinion of the Left, it is important to clarify the content of the concept of good governance. Democracy and human rights are fundamental components of the development of a good governance set. The development towards a better level of education and competence, institutional development and strengthening of administrative and supervisory bodies is also important. In many developing countries, institutional conditions for creating good and predictable business frameworks are weak. It inhibits domestic investment and industrial development, and makes it difficult for countries to attract foreign investment. The left has noticed that the Government will contribute to distorting the efforts of non-governmental organisations and industry towards Norway’s co-operation countries and other least developed countries. The Left, like the Committee, will be particularly concerned that Norwegian development assistance through voluntary organisations, among others. is seen in the perspective of the UN’s Millennium Goals. We agree that a sample will be set up to assess the results of the assistance through voluntary organisations, in particular with regard to voluntary organisations’ efforts for donor cooperation, coordination and overall development efforts. Voluntary organisations are making a major and important effort, and on an independent basis are an important part of Norwegian development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e556	Let me just start with a call for Stortinget, and that is that we don't wait eight years with the next debate on development policy. The dynamics of this field suggest that the Storting should have both presentations, debates and messages in the future. Let me start with the tragic natural disaster in Asia on the second Christmas day, which has affected us all, and which ruined the lives and lives of millions of people and killed over 165,000. We have to face those who are affected, and we have to do what we can to prevent such disasters in the future. But there is also a slow tsunami going over the poor part of the world. Let's hope, therefore, that the wave of popular commitment that now helps the river-wave victims can develop into a permanent commitment to the struggle of those who are poor and needy, everywhere in the world where they exist. To do that, we need a global effort, and we need a work plan. We have now received a contribution to this through the report presented by the United Nations, the United Nations Millennium Development Project on the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. It was presented to Secretary General Kofi Annan yesterday. I will draw some important elements from it: firstly, that development policy is based on fundamental human rights. Secondly, if we do not reform, we will not achieve the Millennium Goals. Thirdly, improved market access for goods and services from developing countries is necessary. Fourthly, we can achieve the Millennium Goals if we are more focused on reform. Fifth, that good governance is the key to development. Sixthly, aid benefits when it is done correctly and when it is based on the country’s own poverty plans. And seventhly, the Millennium Goals are within reach if the OECD countries only partially honour their old promises of assistance and give 0.54 pst. by GNI - i.e. below the UN target of 0.7 pst. At the same time, the Millennium Project underlines that reform of the UN's own way of working needs to be continued if the UN is to be a leading force in its work. The attitude we're dealing with today shows that the Government and the Storting share these assessments - so we're in line with the UN. It shows that the Government has the support of the Storting in the work done to drive this global reform agenda forward. So the principal lines are the same thing in this setting, and it's a force when we're going to do this. It's about coherence in politics, or coherence. Development policy is not a specific field, it covers in principle all issues relating to the relationship with developing countries. Trade and market access, liabilities - debt cancellation and debt cancellation - migration, agricultural policy, knowledge and technology transfer, etc. If we are to achieve a genuine global partnership for development, developed countries must deliver in these areas, and Norway must too. It's about steering sets. Good governance and a well-functioning state and the fight against corruption are prerequisites for our success. This is why efforts are being made to support and further develop the capacity of the developing countries themselves for their own governance. It is good that the Storting joins in this. It is about donor reform, and we are in the middle of this international reform process of international aid. That is why I welcome the Committee's emphasis on the fact that it is the cooperation countries' plans and poverty strategies to be supported - not ours - and that they are the ones to lead the development process - not we - so that they themselves are given full responsibility for what is happening. That's what's a right approximation. The UN Millennium Project Report also underlines this. We are in a process where we increasingly see a transition from designating and project-based assistance to greater responsibility for self-development through sectoral programmes and budget support. It is then the country-wide situation that determines channel selection and their evaluation, and not a separate Norwegian analysis of the most suitable channels from Oslo. Then we have to focus on the results. We do that in the message, and I am glad that the committee joins in the vote. We should come back with our assessments of how we can measure concretely the impact of development policy in the various budget proposals. One of the elements highlighted in the reform work of the United Nations Millennium Project’s comprehensive report is the need for greater predictability of resource access both for UN organisations and for developing countries. This will be a main theme of the high-level meeting on harmonisation in Paris in March this year. The government wants to contribute to greater predictability, and I would therefore suggest that, in the annual budget proposals, a multi-annual indicative commitment to support countries of cooperation and to the UN funds and programmes, subject to the approval of the Stortinge. As I see it, it will also be in line with Storting's allocation regulations. This means that not only development banks have the opportunity to view their work in a longer-term perspective. An important part of the reform work is concentration on those most in need, the poorest. With the UN Millennium Project report, we have once again been told that sub-Saharan Africa is lagging behind in the pursuit of the Millennium Goals. The Committee today agrees that we should focus more on them and set a target for this. I'm glad. Of course, we should give room for humanitarian aid, peace and reconciliation and other global arrangements, as the Committee has requested. We will therefore come back to Stortinget with proposals for such a number and clarify which option we consider best on this point. However, the Millennium Goals cannot be achieved with public efforts alone, where private sector and non-governmental organisations are very important actors. We will immediately start to set up a sample, which has also been endorsed by the Storting, to assess the development work of non-governmental organisations and the results they achieve, and that is what we have announced in the Communication. The involvement of the private sector and the involvement of the business sector are also very important, and in this context, of course, the Government is concerned with what was also mentioned by the representative Gunhild Eyeågen, namely ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ and the importance of furthering this work. There is also agreement between the grubbing-up and the government that we should be at the forefront in terms of debt-laundering criteria, international debt-laundering mechanisms, and contribute to resolving the critical debt situation of the developing countries. We will come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the possible need for an international debt court and the assessment of this by the international actors. We have also had a dialogue from Norway with the World Bank on the issues of illegitimate debt. I can inform Stortinget that, with Norwegian financial support, we will now arrange for the World Bank to develop a study on this topic which could serve as a basis for further debate in Norway. The report of the UN Millennium Goal Project also places great emphasis on the dimension of conflict prevention, improved knowledge of this and contributing to conflict-sensitive actions. From the Norwegian side, we have underlined this in the communication, and although the representative Haga might have thought even more about this, we believe that here we have a framework that is sufficient for our work in this area, and which we believe is a good tool, namely the strategic framework for peace building. At the same time, it is important to protect aid against being misused for military purposes and for actions that are, in effect, part of the budgets of other departments. I welcome the common position in Stortinget. Although there are two different comments at this point in the adjustment, there is a clear connection to the restrictive line Norway has led in the OECD/DAC from all parties on the Stortinget. It's a force. We're in the OECD/DAC's work in this area, and it's good to know that we have an aggregate growth behind us as we move on in international work. The first test on contributing to peace-building and contributing to stability in a conflict-sensitive context concerns Sudan. Here we're facing a really big problem. We see the end of Africa's longest civil war. We are going to have the Sudan grant conference here in Norway, and together with others, we are going to try to learn from our past mistakes and make sure that the aid comes in a way that is peace-building and does not destroy or undermine peace. It's going to be a challenge. Let me just highlight two important aspects. Me and we from the Government are very concerned about ensuring women's equality and rights in development cooperation. We've been working on the revision of the strategy, and we're going to make sure that Storting's view here is properly followed up. The same applies in the field of the environment, where we already had clear plans for an enhanced profile and follow-up in line with the National Audit Office's observations and in line with the Johannesburg Summit's ambitions. Here we were going to make a strategy. With Stortinget’s attitude, we are now saying that we should make a proper and good action plan for environmental efforts in development cooperation. Finally, it must be said that this is a rather historic day. Today, I believe, all parties except one, for the most ambitious goal on the aid side ever in Norwegian policy, namely to reach 1 pst., to keep the target, and that it should be at least this level of enlargement 2005-2009. It's epoch-making, and with that, we have the opportunity to be on the international front as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e600	It's going to be line change. First, the Gunhild Eyepiece, which has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e603	I feel that the main device of the notification is to make development policy more effective and targeted. I find it a little strange that the majority have not supported the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre when we believe that Norway should in the long term contribute to a global testing mechanism for development. We do not believe that such a global mechanism should stand in the way of regional initiatives, such as: The African Partner Examination Mechanism, but we believe it is important to ensure the quality of development policy across the board, and that a global spread of a mechanism can be an important tool to achieve it. Here in Norway we have long and good experience with OECD country studies. We have been criticised for the lack of impact of money use or failure to achieve goals, such as: the last time the school policy has been assessed. My experience is that at least the references we receive help to improve Norwegian policy in this area. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Development whether it is in principle that she does not want such a global mechanism, or whether there is a lack of investigation that is the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e610	The President regrets and will draw attention to the fact that there is no speaking time of 5 minutes in a row. It's 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e614	It would have been very suitable, President. Then I could explain a little more thoroughly what is the reason why we don't join this remark. We've tried to clarify what that actually means, and what the proposal actually involves. Those who have recorded this -- I guess it's not to stick under the chair -- are the umbrella organization forum for some of the volunteer organizations. We've read this thoroughly and tried to figure out how they're going to do this, how, what criteria, and who's going to do it. We have not been able to clarify what this proposal is all about. We have also tried to ask, without succeeding in clarifying it. Then we find it difficult to contribute to a majority for something we don't know what is. So the resistance has nothing to do with principles. I'm in order for us to do that. We're going to see this on the African side with NEPAD and African Peer Review Mechanism. We already have it in the OECD/DAC. The World Bank and the United Nations have a Community surveillance against the pursuit of the UN's Millennium Goals. What we need to know is, should there be someone to coordinate all of this? Who's going to do that? It's unclear, and that's the only reason we haven't joined this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e623	The Council of State referred to the United Nations report that came yesterday, where the need for good governance is highlighted as an important foundation for positive development. It's crucial. How does the Council of State see that Norway, like the great actor we are, can really contribute to this? Have we seen that we've had a breakthrough? State aid is the theme. Are we becoming a hostage to states that say one thing and do something else? We experience setbacks in human rights and democratic development over and over again. How long can we accept that? We interrupted our cooperation with Zimbabwe. Is there something that should be looked at in relation to other states, or are we just going to be back and say that you can do the best you can?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e630	It's one thing that has surprised me in the policy of the Progress Party, and it's that they accuse states of not working, but they won't use any tools to ensure that states work. This can only be done through state aid and, of course, through some non-governmental organisations that act as watchbows. The best and most important instrument is to build functioning state institutions, build legal states, ensure that democratic principles are in place, and assistance is the very best way to achieve it. In fact, it is also the best way to combat and prevent what is called ‘failure and fragile states’ in the fight against terrorism. That should also be borne in mind by the Progress Party, without involving it as an important argument from my side. There are certainly many examples of our success. When Zimbabwe is drawn out as one negative example, it actually means that in the vast majority of our other cooperating countries, it's very good in the sense that we're seeing progress and progress, not that it's perfect. It's far from perfect, as it wasn't perfect in Norwegian history either when we built up our rule of law and our democratic system. We all have a way to go, so do our co-operation countries - but success is no doubt we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e637	I have to fix a bug from instead: it was supposed to be the German philosopher Hegel, not Kant. No wages have made me aware of it in the meantime, so now it should be all right. But the main content is, of course, the relationship between master and jack. That's what I think it's too little of both in the articles of the Council of State and in the message, that's what's going on in political struggles domestically in order to bring about real changes. Governments should be very grateful for the message that has been made, and for analysing that there is trade, the environment, aid and debt that should be our contribution. But there's a little too little trade -- on debt, I think it's disappointing that a debt court can't support, on the environment there's now an action plan, and that's very good. In terms of debt, it's that you can't see that you have to work beyond what the Paris Club does. The Paris Club is designed to ensure that the rich get their money back, not to help the poor. What I was actually going to ask is: Can't we get back the annual report/outcome from the Minister for Development? And: Is Norway able to carry out what the Storting decides today, with the form of organisation that is chosen away on Victoria Terrace?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e646	Just very briefly to the post of the representative Jacobsen: this message is primarily an action-oriented document. We have not wanted to spend a lot of time and space analysing the effects of poverty. It belongs in the world of research. We want to act to combat poverty. We need to know a little bit about the analysis, and we know a lot about that from hundreds and thousands of pages. We don't repeat that here. We have an analysis of the situation in our countries of cooperation that also touches on what the representative calls political struggle. We are on track with the poorest in our countries of cooperation, but we do not need and do not have the opportunity to go into detail about this in a communication to the Stortinget. I think it would have been to overpower the Storting with a detail that one would receive. So to the question concerning the statement: I'm afraid it's the wrong address. I am more than happy to stand on this platform and make developmental statements several times a year, but we need the Presidency of the United Kingdom on this. I can also make thematic presentations within the current system, and I am more than happy to do so for the Committee. If the representative wants me to say more about debt, I will do so in a new explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e653	In the last few days, and also today, we have been thoroughly confirmed that to achieve the Millennium Goals, we must have a capacity to reach the aid, the long-term assistance. Then we think we have to work along two axes: we have to work to get up the traditional assistance through public budgets, and we have to work on finding alternative sources of funding. It is important to work on finding alternative sources of funding at a time when the world is changing and public budgets are under pressure. The representative of Lilletun has received questions about this earlier today. He's in good mood, but it's not always as good to see what the answer is. That is why I have to challenge the Minister for Development on this, because I understood the representative Lilletun there that in the international context there is an offensive strategy related to working with alternative sources of funding, but nationally and in the sphere of government cooperation it is a little worse. My question is quite specific to the Minister for Development: What is done by the Government to work out alternative sources of funding, and what is the approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e665	We often see, and have seen in the past, that the countries that have been most favoured by alternative funding mechanisms have had the greatest difficulty in achieving their own aid target, and some have not even had a common aid target. They have used it as a substitute for acting progressive towards international audiences. Therefore, the main track is constantly mobilising long-term efforts and ensuring that all countries go up to 0.7 pst. Eleven OECD countries now have ambitious targets of 0.7 or 1 pst. It is an aid increase that goes all over the world, and I hope it will last over time. But it's absolutely right that with the situation we have now, when we don't have the thousand-year targets within the time interval we have. Everybody doesn't reach 0.7 pst. Now. This means that we need additional resources. As a result, in the Globalisation Communication, we said that we are open to carbon taxes as an instrument in this context. It also means that we now have a dialogue from Norway with the British on the proposal of Finance Minister Gordon Brown, IFF, the International Finance Facility, where we have said that we are going for the model that ensures stability over time for the mobilisation of additional resources even after 2015 and that is legally committed. We have reported that in a common Nordic Minister of Development opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e674	The Committee has worked very extensively on the notification. What we've discussed often is how we can contribute to the achievement of Storting's goals and how we can get a systematic response in the best possible way. In particular, the role of the World Bank and the Monetary Fund has been a major topic for debate during the course of the debate in the United Kingdom. That is why we have been in favour of the proposal on country studies, where we use OECD country studies as a starting point for an examination mechanism that can provide the Storting with more systematic and independent assessments of all the institutions that we have been involved in. As for who should do this and how this should be designed, we believe that it is the government apparatus that has the best prerequisites for doing this work. Norway has long experience of OECD country studies, so it should not be completely impossible to carry out such work. My question is, can the Council of State understand that we want such an assessment and such a mechanism, and reconsider its view of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e685	It's still a little bit unclear to me how you think this has been done. For if the OECD/DAC in the country studies are also to analyse the role of the IMF and the World Bank in the various countries, they will probably protest violently. Here we have different institutions that have partly self-examination mechanisms, and it is difficult to see how to ensure that one body is given this overall responsibility. So I'm probably still a little reserved for this particular proposal. What we want is to ensure that there is a sufficient and proper examination of policies in the various institutions. The OECD/DAC has its role, and we want to reinforce it. It was among my messages when I was there at the OECD's examination of Norway. I think there is a need for significant reinforcement. The same applies to the Global Monetary Report, for which the World Bank itself is responsible in relation to the Millennium Goals, and not least how to strengthen the African self-examination in connection with NEPAD. In addition, I have also suggested that we look at how we can track the aid resources in the tsunami context, but since the time has come, I can rather get back to it in the next debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e690	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e693	I am pleased that it is a development message we are discussing today, not an aid message. Assistance is important, but it is justice that must now be at the top of the international agenda. Although we made all countries contribute as much as Norway, with 1 pst. Of the gross national income, I doubt whether it would help so much, or whether we would achieve the goals that the UN has set itself, the Millennium Goals. I would like to say a little bit about this in connection with the proposal that the United Kingdom has launched on a Marshall Plan for Africa. I guess that's good. But when the comparison is Marshall's aid in Europe, I have to draw attention to the following: the assistance that Europe received in the form of Marshall aid after the war never came up in more than 2-3 pst. of gross domestic product in any European country. It lasted only a few years, and it was designed for reconstruction and for the rapid reintegration of European countries into the world economy. What happened was that the growth that came was export driven. With regard to Africa, the situation is that if we ignore Nigeria and South Africa, the aid is up in a 12-13 pst. of gross domestic product, and it is now within the fifth consecutive decade. It shows that if you didn't do anything in addition to assistance, if you were to just increase the percentage that African countries get in the form of assistance under gross domestic product, it wouldn't help. That's where international trade comes into the picture. Because of the unfair trading system we have, poor people are simply being deprived of the use of the only thing they own, namely their own labour force. Instead, they become recipients of help. And what's worse: the unemployment that you have in these countries also helps to destroy those who actually have work, by making all the unemployed those who have work, powerless, in the fight to get better wages. The hard unemployment underlies wages in these countries, so that both those who are unemployed and those who have employment become powerless and dependent on help. That's how poverty reproduces itself. So I mean that we don't just have to be the best at assistance, we also have to be the best at opening up trade in the world. But I would like to stress that free trade is not the same as liberalisation. The pressure you have seen, among other things. from the IMF and, in part, from the World Bank on privatisation in the poor countries, has also, in my view, led to the use of resources other than human labour. Let me take the Norwegian oil adventure as an example: in the case of Norwegian oil policy, if we had used the recommendations of some poor countries from the IMF and the World Bank, what would have been the situation today? So because we had a strong government hand in this, the oil resources have benefited the entire people. If we had privatized the whole thing, I don't think that would have been the case. This is an enormous example of what we can export to the poor countries, that we need government governance, that we need a strong government hand in economic policy and in resource management. So I want to say, aid and relief will always be very important, especially when we see all the disasters that have been, the ones that we now have, and those that are likely to come in the future, among other things. as a result of environmental changes on earth. But at the same time, what we've been inside, and now we're up in, shows that relief and assistance can't just be based on greedy people, who often go up and down. The pleasure we now see in South Asia is very, very happy. But I have to remind you that 1,000 people were recently killed in a flood disaster in the Philippines. One million people were driven away. 70,000 people are killed in Darfur. Two million people are driven away. We haven't seen the same giver joy there, probably because the television cameras haven't been on the same level. This is not an attack on television, because the television cannot operate in the way they have now done in relation to South Asia, in all kinds of natural disasters, crises and wars. I mention that point, because we have to try to get a more predictable funding of emergency aid and aid. We can't just depend on the TV lights being on all the time, to the extent that has now been the case. I want to compare this with what has happened within our own welfare state. When a person is hit by something unexpected at home, he usually has a demand for help, help. It's laid down in laws and regulations. If you do not get it, you will immediately be required to have it. As a rule, a welfare state is ready to do something for it based on these laws and rules. He/she is not dependent on gifts from individuals when he/she is hit. I believe that the UN must be able to be it at the global level that our welfare state is at national level, namely to have its own opportunities to intervene when natural disasters or other things happen to people in an unforeseen way. Then you can't just depend on the winged, which is good and good, but the UN actually has to get its own instrument, its own chance, its own money to intervene and do something when things happen. It might have been possible to do something more for the thousands who were killed in the Philippines, or for the many who have now been killed in Darfur, and not only to go from donor conference to donor conference, where countries will give, but otherwise not to fulfill everything they have promised - nor at these give conferences. Then I am pleased that the Minister of Development mentioned the possibilities of getting a carbon tax. If the United Nations is to get its own money, they have to be collected from somewhere. What would be more natural than that they are collected in the form of taxes, as we have funded our welfare state today? When we see this flood disaster in South Asia, we can imagine the tragedies that will result in global warming and water rising. What would be more natural than that we got a tax on CO2 emissions, which is why we have global warming? That way, we'd be able to collect money to meet future disasters. We could enable the UN to intervene on its own and have money for it, while perhaps we could also do something about the problem itself, namely global warming. It is estimated that a relatively small carbon tax, although it would lead to a significant reduction in CO2 emissions, could be $300-400 billion a year! It tells us a little bit about what opportunities we have if we're willing to take the right political action. I think we should use the situation in the world today to launch and work for such measures, which will just help us get a stronger global instrument, similar to the welfare state in our national arena, as I have said. We have had two experiences in the welfare building in Norway. One was that it was only when we put the propertyless man, who only had his own labour force, in the centre of economic life, when it got work and a wage to live on, that economic growth took off. The second was that solidarity had to be institutionalised, it had to be governed by rules and laws and institutions in order for it to be predictable in all situations. I think it's a very important lesson for the global plan as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e730	It's tempting to start with a never so small line to the previous speaker's very interesting posts. I believe it is important, at least, to stress that the communication we are discussing today links Norwegian policy to a common global policy, where the United Nations is in the leadership seat and where the UN's objectives are also governing Norwegian policy. I think that is very important - and so that all donor countries, all the rich countries of the world, now lower their own flags and allow an international, global common policy to come into the driver's seat. What is my main concern today is to go back a little bit to the last time we dealt with a notice on Norwegian development policy. Many people have pointed out that it's been as long as eight years. I would rather focus on how much has happened in this relatively short time period. I think there are two things in particular that point out. Firstly, it is even wider that aid policy cannot be seen in isolation, that it is about development policy, and that it is equally important to integrate developing countries - and in particular the least developed countries - into world trade. The work of a freer and fairer trade is solidarity in line with assistance. It's just by doing both that we can reach the Millennium Goals. The second thing I think is striking when you go back and see in the 1996 setting is that the concept of a good steering set is not mentioned in that setting at all. Now this term is completely central. The UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, expresses it this way: Good governance - good governance - is perhaps the most important single factor in eradicating poverty and promoting development. The focus on good governance in development policy has grown in recognition of the fact that development and poverty reduction cannot be achieved without poverty reduction and economic and social development as the objective of the recipient country authorities. I believe that this has also been an important weakness with the assistance over many decades, namely that it has been taken too lightly, even sometimes overrun, the recipient country's own responsibility for development. Assistance over many years has helped many people in developing countries, no doubt, but aid does not always manage to reduce poverty on a lasting basis. That is what must and must be the objective of development policy. That's why the new focus on good governance is very central in the last decade. There is growing global consensus on the main elements that need to be put in place to achieve good governance. Keywords are democratic institutions, power distribution, rule of law, respect for fundamental human rights, the fight against corruption and an economic and social policy that contributes to the fight against poverty. The provision of assistance and support for governance reform has therefore also become a central element of Norwegian development policy. In fact, the effort in this area is more than 15 pst. of total Norwegian assistance, and the proportion is increasing. The effort has also produced good results. Public financial management is e.g. have improved considerably in several of our co-operation countries in the light of this strategy. In view of the fact that the extent of corruption at global level is estimated by the World Bank to be about 80 billion dollars a year, it's easy to understand how important this work is. It is possible to distinguish well-managed countries from those who do not. Our world is still the most shades of gray. There are definitely a lot of grey zones here. Different countries may have different national and cultural needs and solutions. Developments may be in the right direction in one area, for example: in the fight against corruption and in the wrong direction in another area, e.g. strengthening women’s rights. It will then be important to study the overall development of the recipient countries and to study developments over time. In recent years, however, Norway has, in several cases, cut the aid significantly or stopped it altogether when cooperation countries have gone in the wrong direction in view of governance criteria. Zimbabwe, Tanzania and Bangladesh are examples of such countries. On the right, it is considered an important element of Norwegian development policy that we make a strict assessment of where our aid crowns are to be used. It is simply to ensure that the funds have the effect of creating development and combating poverty. That is why, in the future, we must also be willing to engage in dialogue with countries of cooperation if the authorities are not conscious of their responsibilities and let development go astray. When the Storting last addressed a communication on development policy, some of the Right’s criticism was that this understanding of ‘good governance’ was not good enough. The right wrote in Innst. S. No 229 for 1995-1996: ‘At the same time, the internal assumptions, such as national, cultural, economic and political factors, have proved to be fundamental to the operation of aid operations and the direction in which development takes place.’ To the right, such an approach did not reflect adequately in Norwegian priorities. Today, in 2005, it is not possible to talk about development policies without focusing on the policies and strategies of the beneficiary countries themselves. ‘Good governance’ has become a key element in both bilateral and multilateral development cooperation. I must point out that it may seem that the Progress Party is a little behind in the 1990s' development policy, and that they have not fully realised that there has been a great deal of progress in these years. The lot is critical to the state of co-operation in the setting and refers to, as they write, ‘the increasing possibility of corrupt regimes to retain power through assistance’. I believe that this message we are dealing with today is counterproductive, namely that the possibilities of corruption and misuse of aid resources should be combated. The Progress Party also refers to studies in the mid-1990s that showed that aid led to the use of own resources by beneficiary countries in ways that did not contribute to poverty reduction. However, it is precisely these PRSP programmes - the countries' own poverty strategies - that must be combative. The first were introduced as late as 1999, i.e. several years after the investigations to which the Party refers were carried out. According to my concepts, the party's criticism is directed against a development policy which is no longer pursued or which is at least phased out. Good governance and national strategies in the recipient countries to reduce poverty have led to a positive trend in development policy in relation to eight years ago, but we are in no way at the end. We haven't found the fasit. ‘Good steering set’ is a normative concept. The size is likely to have many discussions about the content of that concept in the years to come. But in the Right's view, we have come a considerable step further in relation to the mid-1990s. That is why we have no difficulty in supporting the need for aid to be and must be maintained at a high level during the next major period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e772	As it goes to the end of the sitting government, I will be able to congratulate her with one effort at least, and it is that she has achieved that there has never been such a broad deal about the level of Norwegian development aid as now, since the Right has joined the broad majority. If the Right has intended to go back to an intermediate position between the others and the Progress Party, I don't know, but if they do, they have profiled it much less than the proposal for wine in the store, anyway. When this option is checked, the level will be negated. There is also no major debasement when it comes to device, as I see it. Some points, however, are worth commenting on. It concerns the issue of international and national coordination. It should be good Latin everywhere, because the effort when you act together, when you run together, gives you more power, so that the person who accepts has less to do. This is pretty easy. But on the other hand, such coordination makes the system less transparent and less transparent. Questions have been raised about having an overview of the money stream, and that we need to have a proper audit system that can capture it. To that end, I would say that if this is a problem, the challenge is to develop the audit system and transparency, not to go back on coordination and joint efforts. Thus, the main objective will have to be to continue towards more efficiency. We need to develop instruments that provide sufficient transparency when it comes to auditing, and also political understanding, in the sense that there should also be a budgeting that assumes that one knows what is actually being prioritised. But the point is that in the dilemma that one sees getting up, and which is mentioned in several contexts here today, the goal of coordination is the most important one. There is also another aspect of coordination which has so far been in this House today. It applies to voluntary organisations. Here I - I think it also applies to others here today - a run-in with no hope, because I don't know what is really the conclusion. Here's the two dilemmas. The one thing is that it's a dilemma for the government, in the sense that organizations can act out with their own flags, but with public money. The second is that there is a problem for organisations, in the sense that they are merely acting as organisations implementing public policies. There is no good answer to this. The selection to go into and look at the efforts and impact of the efforts of voluntary organisations should also approach this dilemma. The dilemma has been mentioned before. It was mentioned in the previous debate, but we have not made any special progress on it. Until we find a clearer policy in this area, it is important that we have the most transparent actual situation, i.e. whether the organisations, which make up a large part of it, and which is an important channel for Norwegian assistance, act in one way or another, so that one does not just leave a given sum to a certain amount of little-known organisations and so does not know if one at the other end is acting with a own flag or with a Norwegian flag. This is an important, but almost insoluble dilemma. But we're going to take it up here because you're going to look at the work of the organizations. Then this too should look at. The question of concentration and long-termity is constantly emerging. It is clear that there is a need for efforts to concentrate on the poorest countries, i.e. on the poor countries with a development-friendly policy. There's no doubt about it. So the question is, who are the poorest countries? Are these the least developed countries? Is it low-income countries? In which category is one? We have a system that probably works pretty well, with main cooperation countries and co-operation countries that make up the weight of Norwegian aid, if we take with us other channels of assistance than the purely bilateral ones. This shouldn't be a big dilemma. Nevertheless, there is access to this one in the setting, which I should not exaggerate, because I believe that there is a broad deal about this in practice. However, if you look at practice, for example: the group of cooperating countries today is not quite unambiguous among the poorest. There are other reasons why some areas, e.g. the Palestinian territories, Sri Lanka, etc., which are not among the poorest, have entered. The point is that there should be room for some flexibility in these areas too to take the kind of political considerations it's clearly made here. Looking at this group, in other words, one does not have a clear, consistent and unambiguous argument for each country. There are different reasons why the countries have been taken in, and they are not entirely in line with the philosophy of being the lowest on the development scale. Nevertheless, I believe that one today has a good approach to this, and that one has some flexibility in this area as well. In other words, one should not completely lock on to the ‘smallest developed country’ group, but also look at other conditions. Here I would like to remind you of another dilemma we have, and that others have so far encountered. Thorbjørn Jagland approaches this from a slightly different point of view. It applies to developing countries. Here we can bring Namibia and Botswana, where a seemingly successful one, which is no longer so obvious. The reason is that we have not had an adequate offensive policy, among other things. on the trading grounds that these countries have been able to develop further on the basis of the good starting point they actually had. Another reason why I think we should be quite flexible when it comes to the type of country, even when they are in the OECD category, is that if we see that we can contribute to a positive development in countries that are moving out of the extreme poverty, we should be pragmatic about that. It leads me to the second last point that I want to mention here. It's about another kind of challenge we're facing. This applies to the countries that will evolve following conflict or disaster situations. I will come back to that in the next case, the dilemma between emergency aid and long-term help. The Council of State referred to Sudan, which hopefully is a good example of how to get out of conflict and into a positive development. Let's sincerely hope so! But on the other hand, there are too many examples that the transition from conflict and disaster to normal development has not worked. There are too many who fall back and stand up with a corrupt government, with conflicts and the whole list of negative characteristics that many of these countries have. Then, once again, I have a dilemma that means that I am not in disagreement with what the Council of State said, and with what it says, that we need to move on to find better mechanisms to get out of conflict situations. It's a paradox that, for example, may lack qualified peacekeeping forces, and that one does not have enough resources to carry out good defence reforms, which are largely needed in many of these countries - it is not easy to implement a good defence reform in this country either, it looks like, but at least it is terribly difficult in the poorest countries. It makes sense that one does not let these things into traditional development policy, but at the same time it is a little too easy to say that this is a different area, as long as the other area does not do anything about it. That is why, in my view, one of the most precarious challenges we face is to be able to address the area that can help build capacity when it comes to peacekeeping forces and that can help reform the military system in many of these countries, so that they become actual contributors to peace and stability. It will cost money, not just political demands. So we have to find a place to pick this up. This is not about the aid budget. We need to find another location. It must be a common challenge, not just to point out that it belongs to another area. Let's hope that Sudan becomes an example of this moving. Until that's shown, I'm kind of in agreement with Åslaug Haga that here we have an unspoiled area where there's an incredible amount of work to do. When I was involved in conflicts and good governance--or poor governance, which is often a consequence of conflicts and disasters, there is one element that has not been mentioned at all here today. In addition to corruption and all these phenomena, there is -- let's say -- an epidemic of reactionary morality that spreads around the world under the name of religious conservatism or whatever it may be, which is a pretty big obstacle to the fight against HIV/AIDS and other diseases. I would also like a set of a little more focus on this phenomenon, this stream of reactionary morality that sweeps over, among other things. parts of Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e795	There is obviously a lot of the representative of Blankenborg who does not know about the future. In that way he shares his destiny with most of us. And we have to live with that. This debate and the work of the Committee on Development has been a useful learning process. The useful thing about it is that because the committee spent such a long time, much longer than what one tends to do in a major committee, even with extensive documents from the Government, this has led the learning process to point towards a greater degree of consensus on key issues than ever before. On the basis of broad political documents such as the development message we are discussing, both types of processes are possible in a parliament. You can choose to focus on everything that matters to disagree about-- and that's a lot. In this case, the process will lead to increasing fragmentation and increasing attention to marginal issues. The process may also be in the direction of deciding to use the most energy on what it is possible to reach agreement on, even if there are shades in emphasis. As I believe, today's vote and debate in many ways represent a milestone in Stortinget's work on Norwegian policy in this area. If you were to sketch a very rough story over half a century where the theme of aid and development has been on the political agenda in our country, it may be a bit simplified to say that for a very long time it was one of the themes that served as dividing lines in Norwegian domestic policy. I guess it's also true to say that we've been through quite a few stages in this half century of our own learning. The most important learning process has been to realize that it has not been done with the good intentions. In our part of the world, in modern times, in moral issues, we have often been extremely concerned with the good intentions, and we have very often fallen into the ditch that we have believed that if only the purpose is good enough, the results will certainly also be good. We do not know that today. Even with the best intentions, you can get hurt to create more problems than you can solve. With regard to developmental issues, in addition to mental ethics and the question of good intentions, it is clearly necessary that we have a strong element of consistency, that at all times, both when acting as individuals, as groups and as states, we have a moral duty also to assess results in relation to purposes. We have a responsibility for what results we do with what we do. And the third element: I also think that we're gradually coming to an agreement that what's called "obligatory" also has a proper place in this image. It is simply a moral duty to help other people individually and collectively if you are able to do so, and if they need help. It's not an optional exercise. It's a moral obligation that no one can abdicate. At the same time, we've learned over five decades that it's extremely difficult to solve complex problems. It is extremely difficult to find the right means when facing such a major problem as the poverty problem in today's world. It's extremely difficult to get to what we've been waiting for to call development, as if evolution itself was a normative concept or, in itself, would mean development in the right direction. It may be worth remembering that we had an intermesso in the 1990s where the whole world was involved in a little learning process, when we invented the vocabulary «sustainable development», and thus for the first time admitted on our part in the rich part of the world that it is not necessarily such that every development is going in the right direction, and thus implicitly also that the development in the direction of social relationships that we are accustomed to count as the optimal in this world, is not necessarily perceived as such by all people on the globe. It may be worth recalling that the word compilation ‘sustainable development’ still contains an important critical question, about what processes it is that we are helping to initiate, and whether those processes really lead to the result we want them to do. I also believe that the transfers that Thorbjørn Jagland made in his post, which I listened to with great interest, between historical experiences in Europe and the experiences in today's world, may have more limited value than I got the impression that I myself mean. The experience with the Marshall aid in Europe after the war is interesting, quite obvious. But I'm doubtful whether it has any immediate transfer value to the problems you face in Africa or Latin America, simply because Europe's problem after the war disaster was to return something that existed there from before. There were developed democracies, there were developed legal states, there was a developed economic structure -- it was only destroyed by the war disaster. It's a completely different task to build this up where it doesn't already exist. I also believe that the transfer of our own historical experience in Norway with the development of the social state has limited value, simply because in today's world we cannot spend 100 years - or 150 years - on the kind of maturing processes that we have been privileged enough to go through in our country. Nor do I believe that the experience of Norwegian oil policy from the beginning of the 1970s to the present day is suitable as a model of how to organise the economic structures of countries facing acute poverty problems. We didn't do that in Norway before 1970, as we know it. I also believe that it is important to think thoroughly through ideas and models that will transfer the problem-solving mechanisms of the nation-state to the global level. That is why, for my part, I am skeptical about the idea of global taxation, and especially in the face with which we have experience at national level in Norway too, namely that we establish systems that have a dual justification, one of which is contrary to the other. One is to minimise consumption, and the other is to ensure that the Minister of Finance has the greatest possible income from maximum consumption. There is no particularly successful model in our own context, and I don't think that that model would be much more successful if you lift it up globally with today's UN system. State aid is a fundamental principle that we today agree on, and that is ultimately, I think, a very important part of the learning process I have been talking about. States cannot deal with anything other than countries. It is limited, but it also poses the challenge of contributing to good governance, the rule of law, democracy and living conditions for citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e821	I was not really going to extend the debate, as Morten Höglund has made an excellent presentation of the view of the Progress Party in the area we are dealing with today. What made me take the floor is what Bjørn Jacobsen talked about about about the master-servant relationship, and how to try to cancel this out. Thorbjørn Jagland was also concerned that annual aid to Africa may not have helped Africa up to a level, that maybe you should look at other ways to do it. In the case of land-land-aid, which was also in the case of Inge Wohnung, it seems to me as if it is master of master-aid, as an apology to what Bjørn Jacobsen was about, master-knack. Instead of helping the jack up on the master-level, a gentleman to the master-aid will hold the jack down to maintain the gentleman's position. It will also in many cases maintain the gap between poor and rich. In the case of emergency aid, we all agree that there should be provision, but in the tragic situation we have had with the tsunami wave that has been here, we have also received the feedback from the countries that are now receiving emergency aid from us, that we want help to build infrastructure to provide help for self-help - that's what you really want. I think that direct assistance to that very purpose and where there is a need is the best. There's one thing that we might disagree about. Another problem on the topic we are talking about today is really dual administration and lack of coordination. Among other things, I have have been in refugee camps in Africa where several aid organisations have held the same camp and done the same. So the question is, how do we distribute what we provide? We might disagree about the level, but how is the distribution going to be? I believe that a distribution through non-governmental organisations under control will be effective, including through the UN. But the United Nations is made up of many different relief organisations, and so you might have to give leadership, at least an explanation of how the help can be provided and best come to those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e834	On 30 April 2004, on the same day that the big message was presented, I and other representatives of the party's youth parties received a presentation of the message from the councillor Hilde Frafjord Johnson. We had also invited the Minister of Defence. We had invited the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and we had invited then State Secretary Jørn Holme in the Ministry of Justice, precisely in the recognition that development policy embraces more than one big message. We in the youth parties, like Councillor Kristin Clemet, have also been concerned that education is an extremely important key to development, perhaps especially the education of girls. We've been working a lot on development policy for many years, and we wanted to see, of course, if the recordings we've made over many years were heard, and they were. A theme that is usually associated with quite a lot of sadness and pessimism was presented with optimism, hope and belief in the future, and it was a clear indication that Norwegian development policy has more than one leg to stand on. I believe that there are in particular two key aspects of development policy. Development policy is aid to maritime aid and, in order to ensure development, it is essential that beneficiaries take responsibility for their own development. That is why it is also right and absolutely necessary to ensure and make demands, among other things. the development of human rights, of democracy, of processes towards healthier economies and the establishment of legal states. Secondly, development aid is not charity. At times, you can get the impression that it is more important for a number of rich countries to show that they are providing assistance than to focus on what assistance is being provided and under what conditions it is being provided. Development assistance is also not a mild gift to be given to facilitate the conscience of rich countries and to get us into the world picture. In other words, it is not enough for rich countries like Norway to be the best in the class for billions of transfers. We must also be the best contributors to rich countries taking poor countries seriously and providing something that will lead to lasting change in old structures. To put it that way with the Indian professor Meghnad Desai at the London School of Economics: "We don't want your compassion, we want your markets." It's just that Desai's place of stand, which he shares with, among other things. many African leaders, as expressed in The Millennium Action Plan, are contentious. It is controversial in some environments in those countries that have to provide market access. For this government, it has been essential to take poor countries' demands seriously and thus leave Norwegian development policies on more legs than just assistance. Aid alone and trade alone is not the recipe. The solution lies in the combination. That's why it's also disappointing, but unfortunately in no way surprising that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in the election continue a policy of protectionism. They're in favour of a development that goes in the opposite direction to what the Government wants. The parties claim to speak on behalf of the poor countries, but actually speak only on behalf of interests in rich countries. It is tempting to ask what the representative Haga thinks about the importance of the Western countries opening up their markets. In the comments of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, it seems that these demands for cuts in western agricultural subsidies and the opening up of western markets for the goods from poor countries that countries can actually export have not been promoted. They are not mentioned in one word. The truth is that they have been promoted loud and clear, but the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party do not listen. They are too eager to cover themselves behind slogans of solidarity with the world's poor, to be the most benevolent donors of the aid budget and to build sky-high customs walls that effectively keep poor countries down and their goods out of our markets, to take poor countries' demands seriously. These parties would like to define people at all stages of life as clients in need of public assistance, and they are using exactly the same approach to poor countries. Instead of enabling countries and people to take responsibility for and control their own development, rather than providing aid for maritime aid, the Socialist Left and the Centre will rather provide comfortable charity over the market access demand of developing countries. So seas of UNDP describe trade barriers as development barriers, and seas of Desai, and many with him, asking for market access rather than compassion, it is more important for the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to take care of Norwegian interests unchanged than to contribute something that could cost changes for a rich country like Norway. It's not solidarity. Many indications indicate that the world's poor countries are moving in the right direction: openness, democratic development, globalisation and more open markets combined with the gradual reduction of extreme poverty, infant mortality and illiteracy. Life expectancy and average income in developing countries are increasing. Information can in our time be very little, if any, controlled by the authorities. In other words, the living conditions of dictatorship regimes are considerably worse, a decline in living conditions that is the only one that can be described as positive. This is something that greatly contributes to the positive developments I just described. This shows that development assistance is not or can be the only element of development policy. There is a need for both democratic reforms, economic development and respect for fundamental human rights. Rich countries need to open up their markets, and targeted and good assistance is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e857	Only first cards to the previous speaker, Eriksen. The main challenge now in trade policy is to put an end to the enormous export subsidies on overproduction of agricultural products in the rich part of the world. It makes up $300 billion a year and helps to dump our surplus goods in poor countries. That's the first challenge. If Eriksen had followed in the American budget debate, she would have seen that Bush has actually allowed huge funds for overproduction in American agriculture. It gets a vote of in the American agricultural environment, but one doesn't say what's the big problem in international trade on agricultural products, that's the export subsidy. Then I'm going back to something I was in a line to the Council of State instead. It's about how to organise development policy here at home. We're gone on Victoria's terrace, and I was so far inside it, getting an annual developmental policy outing. The state councils are right that's what we here in the Grand Council decide. So to that reorganization of development policy that we've seen. This has been a reorganization on which there has been little debate. I would like to ask the State Council to comment, if it intends to have the word back, whether it is satisfied with the reorganisation and the evaluation procedures and reporting procedures that are currently in place, whether Norway is able to implement the positive decision actually taken by the Storing. Is it an organisational form that is chosen that enables us to implement the policy we have said we should implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e866	The representative of Blankenborg was, to a large extent, within the Right’s will to follow up his own formulations. I assume that he aimed at the volume of the assistance in the next majority period. To that it's probably just saying that the formulations are pretty clear, and that's also right. I think it might be more important to focus on how to provide a good motivation for the population to maintain and possibly further develop the level of assistance. There, I think it's absolutely essential that we be clear about what we want and how we want to do it. In this way I mean that St.meld. No 35 for 2003–04 and the state of play we have today is a very good contribution to clarifying it for our own population. It brings us a good step forward. But just as important it is that we focus on increasingly being able to provide an evaluation and verification of what we're doing, so that we can not only say clearly what we wanted to do, but also what the effect was, and whether we were able to get to where we wanted to go. Some work has been done in the preparation of the adjustment and the staging message. I know the department is very concerned about that. I also think the Council of State expressed itself very clearly and committed to the commitment to further developing the evaluation. Otherwise, I have listened carefully, especially to the speech by the representative of the Party of Advancement, Mr Höglund, today, because it is a very long special comment from the Party of Advancement. But we register, as Høglund himself said, that one has sought agreement where possible. I think that's very satisfactory and positive for our final product here. Nevertheless, one remaining with some ambiguities is at the root of the development policy of the Progress Party. I then go to page four of the vote, under the main heading ‘Central objectives in Norwegian development policy’, where it states: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, considers that fair distribution between country and inland must be the focus and support of Norwegian development policy.’ It can't be part of the Progress Party, and it amazes me. One has said that an applicant agrees where possible. So this is not possible. It must mean that the Progress Party believes that the distribution between the north and the south is not unfair, possibly that the injustice is perfectly OK. It might be interesting to get a comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e884	The representative Christiansen was inside the PRSPs, and with their entry, everything goes so much better. The Progress Party was suspended in the 1990s, and our references were based on research reports from the 1990s. My post today is based on two studies from 2003. But I would point out that through the 1980s, through the 1990s and now we have repeatedly criticised the impact of aid and the scale and results of aid. If you go back in the debates, you'll see that at least the government has assured you that there have been problems. You admit that some things haven't worked, but we'll take care of that. Now it's going to be so much better. We hear the same thing today: now everything is going well. If that's the case, it's great. I promise we'll take it inwards. There's nothing better than that you've learned from history. But some of our earlier warnings, in the light of the after-clock, have been shown to keep pace. And then we'll see if that's the case this time. But more recent studies than the ones we refer to in the vote confirm the same thing: aid as such, in a macro perspective, is not what lifts people out of poverty. Now the majority don't say that it's the only thing that works, but more assistance should work better. Now I was unnoticable for a moment while the representative Vallersnes kept his last post. I got a challenge, I understand. I think it was about this with the distribution between countries, i.e. redistribution. A top-down redistribution policy is not something the Progress Party, with its ideological stance, wants to stand up for. We believe in a completely different dynamic policy. That doesn't mean that the world is fair as it is. This does not mean that conditions are fair internally in a country. There's a run-down process, where a strong state or a strong supranational state tells us that it should be. That's not the prescription from our side. We believe in a completely different form of dynamic development. But yes, we must fight injustices.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e898	Aid doesn't solve everything, and it's not a hocuspocus. I think there have been many good posts that have made a cross-political consensus on this. I also think the timely reference made by both the representative of Jagland and the representative of Christiansen on the importance of trade policy and market access is important to emphasise. To two-three dilemmas and a comment, first on poverty orientation and concentration. What we're going to do now is see how we can ensure that we get a greater concentration of effort for low-income countries and Africa. It is thus not limited to the MUL, on which the representative Blankenborg was involved. But let me show you that it's actually only 17 pst. of the assistance budget to the bilateral state for state cooperation. This means that we have a challenge in terms of fragmentation, which OECD/DAC has also pointed out. The second dilemma I want to highlight here is that it is important to address security and development challenges. There is a major international debate on this. But we have to separate it from the bill and who will pay it, which Blankenborg was also involved. Haga has also underlined the importance of discussing and discussing this in her contribution. Let me point out that other countries have established mechanisms for coordinating instruments, but where the bill goes according to the legislation. This applies, inter alia, to: The United Kingdom, which has a significant pool of resources, money and personnel to deal with that kind of challenge. These are things I think Stortinget can look into. The third dilemma mentioned by Blankenborg was HIV/AIDS and the conservative winds that blow. I can promise that there is one thing I challenge African leaders, church leaders and Islamic leaders on, is this: openness about sexuality, the use of prevention and not least condoms to prevent the spread of infection. This is now also much more openness about, so there I think evolution is going in the right direction, as far as I can judge. It's a conservative thing -- maybe another wind blowing, if you can say it that way: the interesting thing is that there's a change of pace not only in the Right in Norway, and I think the representative Julie Christiansen explained it very thoroughly and well, but also internationally. The Bush administration has put much more money on the table than any previous one. We can probably criticize it in many ways, but at least it has to be said. The second thing that has happened is that the tory in the United Kingdom this week joined the British escalating plan to 0.7 pst. It's a very interesting development. With regard to the reform in the U.D., we are able to deliver with the reorganisation that has taken place. My assessment is that it better enables us to implement the policy. We've got a better and more holistic grip. We can see policies and assistance in the context, and we make sure that decisions are taken as closely as possible where people live, and those that are, the poor of the world. By that I believe we have got a system that can deliver in relation to the message we have in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e913	Let me briefly touch two aspects of the setting. But before I get that far, I would like to reiterate to the representative Eriksen's post on trade that it is clear that trade is infinitely important. It is still too much for many parts of the world that being outside the ‘trade basket’ leads to a decline, and being part of a trading system brings progress. But for many of the poorest countries in the world, in fact for the poorest, this is not the big challenge. They already have market access to Norway. All MUL countries have free market access to Norway and also to large parts of the western world. This means that the main problem for these countries is that they do not have products that can be shipped to Norway and that large parts of America and also the EU dump agricultural products with export subsidies in these countries, making it difficult to develop their own business. This is the main problem, a problem that Norway has actually faced, and which many Western European countries faced at the beginning of the last century. That was how to cope with the balance between building up one's own business, taking care of one's own resources, taking care of one's own resources, and opening up to the world at the same time. It is in this combination that we have been able to expand a Norwegian business and Norwegian society, and in this combination very many other countries have also been able to expand their own business combined with an open attitude to the world. For the 48 poorest MUL countries, the main problem is not market access in Norway. We need to help them get a business life that allows them to enter Norwegian and international markets, while giving them the opportunity to protect their own business, to build up their own opportunities and not least their own food production. For many of the countries, food production and exports will be the most nearby. Of course, we should import more. There should be no doubt about it. But having a blind belief that market and market access is the big word that solves everything shows that all experience is not right. I'm afraid it's not that simple. Had it been that simple, many problems should have been solved. Then to the two conditions. One is what the representative, Mr Jagland and others, have been dealing with: how we can finance the UN and a more civilised world in the future. Many countries have discussed this. France has discussed it, Canada has discussed it. It is discussed in the UN and it is also discussed in Norway and other Scandinavian countries. Much of what is being discussed is probably not because of a real political desire to move these forwards to see if it is possible to find international ways to fund the UN. Many of these are very good thoughts and ideas, but there is not yet, so far, real political initiative. What we want is a political initiative from Norway. There's a lot of ways to think about it. Let me just touch some of those who have also been affected in the debate. When the Kyoto agreement on an international CO2 or carbon tax was concluded, air traffic was excluded. The reason for keeping air traffic out was that it was difficult to imagine how to share a route between the United States and Europe, i.e. how to distribute the CO2 tax. Then the easiest thing to do was to say that CO2 emitted from air traffic is not part of the Kyoto Protocol. However, it is clear that it is entirely possible to imagine that an international agreement to charge a ticket price goes directly to the UN, instead of the CO2 tax, the carbon dioxide tax, which many countries have introduced. It will be practically possible to imagine, but of course it will require many large countries to agree to do so. So there will always be some cellar countries that won't do that, but it will always be. It is technically and practically possible to imagine that a seat charge on international flights can help finance the UN if there is a willingness to do so. Many have discussed a currency charge, also called the Tobin fee. It's also been discussed in this room a number of times. Here several countries have made fundamental decisions that they are in favour of this, given that other countries are moving on. There are many counter-conceptions against a Tobin tax, but there are also very many arguments for a Tobin tax. Not least, the main argument here is that it could lead to financial stability and would be able to finance good international objectives. There is also something you should go further, to see if, after the major disasters that the world has now seen, there is a greater real political will to go further, not only to make an investigation, but also to discuss with other nations if that is possible. An international CO2 tax, a carbon dioxide tax, is of course also possible in general. I also heard that in my contribution by the representative Igland. Many of these proposals are good and possible to imagine implemented, but some countries have to go ahead. Then you have to accept that there are countries that don't want to join. You can't always say that there's always someone who doesn't want to be there, so we can't do it. That's the way it always is. Unfortunately, it is in international cooperation that there are people who do not want to be involved, but some people have to go ahead. If you think you'd be able to get some countries to go ahead both to find out what alternatives are available, and to work with other countries that are close to us on these issues, it would have been possible to imagine that there was more to safe financing internationally by the United Nations, emergency work, and upgrading and assistance work in many poor countries. It brings me to the last topic I'm going to discuss, namely an emergency aid fund. It has been discussed in public and is not part of the setting. This is a proposal contained in the SV's work programme, which is now being debated in the SV's teams, and there should also be a debate on this later in the spring. But many have suggested that it must be possible to imagine another form of financing emergency aid than the one we have today. This is not due to the tsunami disaster in Asia, because fortunately citizens, states and companies have set up to a great extent, which has made it possible to finance emergency aid for this disaster, which is quite unique, which, of course, would not be the case in this case with an emergency aid fund. But in the shadow of the major disasters, there are persistent other disasters that do not receive the same attention. We can, for example: think of Congo or Darfur, where we know the need is great, and where there will still be a need for great international support and assistance. When you don't have an international searchlight, it's quick to be forgotten by the international community. It's not as easy to collect money to Congo or Darfur today as it was before the great tsunami disaster, because people think they've given a boost. And they've really done that, and that's good. With an emergency aid fund, money may be available at short notice. This means that a government or possibly the United Nations has financial resources to move out on short notice to prevent humanitarian disasters, as we see to a large extent. We know that throughout history, there have been examples of the lack of emergency aid quickly enough because the financial resources have not been available to provide the emergency aid. This is what an emergency aid fund or solidarity fund - or what one might want to call it - can do. Norway may be a country in front of this. We already have an exemplary place in emergency work, relief work and relief work, but it is of course possible to go further with this, so that you can contribute more. It is a hope, after this terrible disaster in Asia, that many countries can get a different approach to many of the issues we are now discussing. Now we're not going to discuss the disaster as such, but this with emergency aid, development aid and how to manage to get a more civilized world. We had hoped very strongly that there would also be a will in the government parties, not least in the Christian People's Party, to go on discussing and investigating how it is possible to finance a more international order related to emergency aid and unhelp and possibly funding of the UN. That is why SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have proposed this in the vote. It is sad that it should not be possible to have a majority in order at least to investigate this. These ideas are now in force in many countries, not just in Europe, but in many parts of the world, about how, on a more permanent basis, an economic contribution to the United Nations is to give the United Nations the front role that they now have in Asia - thank you and praise for it, because it is also due to very good people who do exemplary jobs - and that an economic foundation is also ensured when the world's searchlight is not as strong on the disaster as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e949	There is hardly any debate in this Chamber that is as important as the one we have today, primarily for the peoples and countries affected by poverty, but also for us this is an important debate. There is hardly anything that will have such an impact on our security, our environmental situation, and the development of democracy and security that we have to do something about the great difference between the poor and the rich in the world. It is very positive that where there were comments from the Right/Fremskrit party before consistently, it is now just the Advance Party. I have been in many discussions, including: with the representative, Mr Eriksen, outside this Chamber, who has been strongly defending aid spending of DKK 2-3 billion, because it was thought that this is not the level of aid, but how to use it, perhaps primarily free trade, which is the solution to the problems of development. Now there is a broader recognition that the level of assistance is also important. Of course, it matters if it's 80 pst. or 100 pst. by the young people in the world who are being vaccinated, how many we get clean water, and how much money we have available when natural disasters, famines or war disasters affect large sections of the civilian population, or how far we can go to building schools or basic infrastructure, which can provide the basis for long-term development. I think that sometimes there is a very strange contrast between disaster relief and long-term help. I see that in these flood disaster times, the Progress Party defends the fact that disaster relief is well in place, that is the long-term aid that you are opposed to. But it is precisely those countries that have managed to develop their economy, their infrastructure and their health care systems that are also best able to cope with the very nature of natural disasters that are going on. Therefore, the long-term construction of civil and economic societies in the world's countries is also the best way to help people in the face of major natural disasters. Fortunately, that majority is now wider. It has been a long time since the Right-Original Leader, Kaci Kullmann Five, defended the aid shots that we have to solve our own problems before we can help others. What is disappointing, however, is that there is no majority in favour of providing solid sources of income for the global development work under the auspices of the United Nations. National instruments cannot be transferred to the international arena, says the representative. No, there I agree with the Wage conclusion that in important areas it is not wise to transfer large national decision-making structures to other international arenas. It's a little bit alarming that we're taking it from the representative's salary. However, we must take a very concrete look at what proposals are being made. When there is a proposal for an international carbon tax or an international tax on currency transactions, which has the double effect of creating both a source of income for international work and at the same time has a positive effect on the environment or on international economic stability, two flies are actually struck in a taste. Here I had hoped that the Christian People's Party might signal that when you're out of the company you're in, you'll help put that kind of issue on the agenda, because this is important. Not only is it important for us not to go through the canoeing process of beggaring from country to country every time a disaster occurs and help is needed, or that we are dependent on CNN being in place to trigger the national and international giver joy, but it also has the consequence that it will strengthen the UN's autonomy, that the UN will be more fully liberated from the efforts of the major donors. It is clear that it is unsustainable that some UN institutions can almost be held hostage by the fact that the largest contributors refuse to give money unless a particular policy is pursued. It must be much better to ensure these institutions an independent source of income that is safe, that is sustainable and that will also provide a higher level of income than is currently available. So I often think that when we discuss development in poor countries, and when we discuss division between north and south, it becomes a debate that is completely separate from our own economic reality. It's a paradox that while we have a development minister doing a glittering job on the international arena, highlighting the goals the Stortinget has set, in a good way, we're at home at the same time discussing how much we can step into the wallet in each of Norway, how much we can give in tax laws, and how much we can stimulate the national shopping party. Over the last three years, we have made a record at the purchase party we have in Norway. We consume more, and we're not yet there that for every hundred bills we use extra, we can give one of those heads of aid. So we still have a big job to do at home. So you could say, does the national purchasing party and the Western consumption standard have anything to do with the global environment? Yes, of course they do. First of all, it's the deep recognition that if everyone had the level of consumption that we have today, we would get into completely unsustainable environmental problems. But it's going to be completely acute. When we have ever-increasing energy consumption, for example, we contribute to an international rise in the oil price. And who is hardest hit by it? Well, it affects those who can barely afford the energy they need, the poorest countries, for example. Africa. Or as we go constantly up the food chain, cereals step into chickens and chickens to get them to add more eggs, or to get more grain to make meat and beer products and whatever, it makes the international price of cereals or proteins rise. And who is the hardest hit? Well, they barely pay for the food they buy at the lowest cost in the food chain. The type of issues that are absent from this discussion. If we don't take it seriously, it's just limited how far we get in a discussion about how we can get to international cohesion. Of course it's important to trade, but there's two things to say. One is that the most important thing is to ensure that local businesses in poor countries can have a sustainable home market. There are two things that need to be done. One is that we end up with export subsidies. That's the most important thing we can do internationally to get fair trade. The second is that free trade is not the answer to all those problems. Sometimes poor countries must simply be allowed to protect themselves against international companies that would otherwise eradicate what is of local business. To say that free trade is the answer to all development problems, I think there are many in poor countries that do not recognise themselves in. The third, and equally important, is that the social and civil structures of the poor countries function so that the economic development of a poor country actually benefits ordinary people. It is that a hundred years ago, we fought for a system consisting of collection actions and civil voluntary relief measures to help people in need and poor in our own country to a system where we collected money through taxes and provided systematic welfare services for those who needed it. I am absolutely convinced that this is what we also need in the international community, not as extensive as a nation-state system, but that basic aid measures, basic development funding, are carried out through systematic, fixed structures such as international currency tax or CO2 tax. I'm convinced that's coming. Just as right-wing struggles against the tax system and welfare state development a hundred years ago, they are today fighting against it at the global level. I am convinced that when we have it in place, the judgment against those who fought it will be about the same as the judgment against what you fought against when you were against the development of the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e970	The judgment of history can be left to history. Prognosis about the verdict of history is that they rarely strike. It's not particularly interesting either. What is the interesting side of the debate that the representative Giske went into, is, of course, the question of whether analogy from the nation state directly up at the global level is a plausible analogy. I've pointed out some relationships that say it's not. The reason, of course, is that if it were to be plausible, it would require a world government and a world parliament. No matter how you assess the integrity of today's UN, no one believes that the UN is close to being such a thing. In other words, there is a lack of a political balance of power, and there is a lack of a control function that is vitally important in the political democracy that we have developed within the nation state. When I pointed to a single issue, it is because, for my part, I believe that the charging policy that we have developed at the level of the nation state - because that is not the tax we are talking about, we are talking about taxes - and which is very often given a double justification, namely that it should promote some kind of behaviour or limit some kind of harmful behaviour while at the same time providing money in the state treasury, is subject to a lawfulness that leads to what is achieved, is to make the Ministry of Finance, at the level of the nation state, completely dependent on the income. After a while you completely forget what was the second reason. Now we don't have a global finance department, and I don't see any reason to want to get it, but I would, from my point of view, just point to that dilemma, because I don't have any faith that it will be easier to make this work according to the purpose at the global level than it has proven to be at the nation state level, where it is more than difficult to make it work properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e981	It is necessary to correct a few obvious errors in the representative's remuneration reasoning and that is in relation to excise duties. Excise duties, of course, have twice the effect of introducing them in order to achieve a target, while at the same time creating income that is contrary to this. From a national point of view, excise duties are an outstanding success. The CO22 tax is one example. For example, if one takes the CO22 charge on a Norwegian base, one sees that it brings large revenues to the treasury, but at the same time it contributes to a technological development that causes Norwegian companies to emit less CO2 on a Norwegian base than British ones. This means that it has the dualism, that it provides income, but at the same time promotes a goal. Car charges have exactly the same thing. All other possible taxes in the area of excise duty have this duality in itself. This duality is well lived with nationally, and you want to live with it internationally. But I have to say that the reason I took the floor wasn't just to point out this obvious error, but at the same time to say that if you're going to wait for a world government, if you're going to polemize against the fact that there isn't a global finance department, we can sit here -- and keep sitting here. In all progress, someone has gone ahead and tried to be bold, tried to be bold, tried to take initiatives that seem impossible and are not initially possible. The introduction of ethical guidelines for the Oil Fund, in order to take a national example, was completely impossible a year ago. Now it's possible, now we've introduced it. Everyone in this room, except SV, had to go over this for years. This was a small, modest national example, but there are many major global examples of the same, that some are bold and courageous and take chances. I totally agree--there's no world government today, and we're never going to get it. At the moment we say that we need a world government before we can get an international charge, it's on air traffic, on carbon or on financial transactions, to fund the UN, we'll never get anywhere. This was the main reason why when Trygve Bull was asked in his time what the 100th anniversary book should be called, he said it should be called: 100 years as a brake pad. It was with a little smile. It didn't, of course, because Francis Sejersted had called it something completely different. But this is the starting point for the entire Right History. Every progress this nation has made has been accepted. Therefore, it is necessary to take this settlement with Wage. So it is not possible, I hope at least, to take this defensive position on national and international progress. Someone's got to be a djerve. Someone's got to go ahead. Some have to try to make the impossible possible. If there are enough people who want the impossible, it's actually possible. There's always someone who's wondering away, there's always -- there's always someone who's wondering away -- but if there's enough that will, there might be some careful steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1007	I have not taken the word to defend Right. They're doing well on their own. But I'm warning you a little bit about simplifying a debate right now. Point 1: When ethical guidelines apply to the oil fund, at least I know that the Christian People's Party has never gone over it. We have opposed this strongly. We've despaired a lot of times that we didn't get the Ministry of Finance to define how it could be done, but raided! - It's going to be totally wrong, the representative Djupedal says. We've been out of our hearts all along. In the current debate, we have heard e.g. today. the contribution of the representative, Julie Christiansen, analysing developments in recent years and pointing out that the Right has moved, as the representative Giske also said, in the case of assistance and the need for assistance, while showing that none of us are talking about reform as sustainable development, good governance and some others. It was an analytical article that showed that we have all moved in this debate. Not least in relation to trade, it is clear that both the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Centre have undergone a development. So I agree that you don't have to overplay here either. Today, it's duty-free for MUL countries, and we don't see anyone willing to build infrastructure, except for interoperability. In Norway, it is those who are most ridiculed, i.e. the agricultural industry, who have actually been willing to go in and help the MUL countries get on the track when this is the case. So to the debate on international taxation. As I said in a reply, in the Christian People's Party we are open to that principle. In the context of the globalisation message, we have said that carbon taxes can be a solution. Furthermore, we are also open to other forms of taxation. But we have said at the same time that we have no faith that individual countries are introducing it. This does not mean that individual countries cannot take international initiatives. We now see that a lot of big countries have done so. But as the Minister for Development pointed out, some of the countries that have taken that initiative have our reactionaries to their own assistance. They've used this as a shell cover. We have no need to instruct the Government in relation to it. We said something in the comments in the Globalisation Communication setting. We expect our government to be part of the international debate. But I warn you a little about what the representative, Mr Jagland, said. He held a glittering post, which he always makes here in the hall, but drew it very far, as he compares the development of the nation state with international development, because it also requires a world government. Let's therefore be somewhat nuanced and not just go in old trenches.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1022	No salary has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1025	As I said in my main post, this has been a useful debate. There has been a useful process in the Committee and it has become a good committee position. That's why it would have been a little bit of distrust if this debate were to turn into the usual Norwegian circuit championship about who's the kindest, who's the most progressive, and who's the most party with the future. I think the world can live well without that competition. Let me therefore, in the cross of propitiatoryness, accept Trygve Bull's role as a brake pad. Since Øystein Djupedal mentioned car charges, I have to say that for my part I prefer a vehicle with brake blocks rather than a vehicle without it. My impression is that sometimes in impatience, as Bjørn Jacobsen mentioned earlier here today, damage will be done to drive without brake pads. It is an essential part of the democratic process in a society that necessary counter-conceptions emerge before conclusions are drawn. Getting along with those counter-representations is not the same thing as rejecting. I have not rejected and intend not to reject the idea of possible global funding mechanisms, but I think it is important to pay attention to the counter-conceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1032	There is nothing that helps poor people in poor countries less than competition for who is the best in aid and development work in Norway. That's where we can agree. What's important is that we manage to see the international community as it is, that we don't take on the national ideological glasses that we have to have at all times when we're going to analyze what measures help us. That is why it is so sad to take into account the tax aversion in the Right when discussing a completely concrete, practical instrument that can ensure stable income for development work. In the same way, the left-hand side probably has to take self-criticism for a part that they have been too weak on, for example. constantly asking questions about the instruments chosen in development policy at all times and whether they have worked properly. I think that the attacks that have been at the aid level have, in themselves, also seemed conservative. The question of aid policy as such does not seem to be properly addressed, if the measures chosen are correct, because we have always had to defend the fact that we are at all providing some of our gross domestic product in aid. If this debate can result in us attaching our prejudiced gaze to our aid policy, to our development policy, but also to the measures proposed, for example. The Tobin tax or a carbon tax, regardless of whether to promise 23 billion new tax credits in Norway, because it is a completely different matter and a completely uninteresting discussion of what is happening at the international level, it will be a huge advantage. I think that the problems we're facing here, the challenges we have -- what they're going to demand of us, not just in mind layer ethics, duty ethics, action ethics, consistency ethics or other forms of ethics we're using, the implementation of measures that cost us in dollars and cents, which cost us in other ways to organize society, which may cost us to give some power over international trade and decision-making structures -- will be so demanding that if we go into the trenches on a national political basis, I think we're going to get terribly short. It is very positive that we now have a broader alliance for a high level of assistance, but we should have the broadest possible alliance with regard to the measures we propose, for example. to ensure a stable funding of the UN. So here the Right is invited to go through the same process that you've done in relation to the level of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1045	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Fotation, see page 1397]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1060	It is important to first establish in this matter that the most visible and most uplifting thing in such a tragic case is the great commitment we have seen to individuals, organizations and businesses around the country to support those who have suffered this disaster around the Indian Ocean. As the setting suggests, all parties agree that the magnitude of the disaster is such that it is not possible to make a reasonable public effort without an extra permission, as the Government has agreed. The Committee agrees with the Government's proposal, in almost all respects. A point that, on the other hand, it is important to stress what the Committee says about is the point of the management that will come later this year, based on the experience and the need for the area. There the Committee makes it clear clearly that such a review must also open up additional rights if it is to be necessary and if it is reasonable in accordance with the needs of other areas. In other words, it is not limited, as it was originally proposed, to look at re-disposals, but it should also have room to increase the permissions at a later time. How the money is to be used is the Government and the Ministry most likely to see it. Even if you're early, there's a lot of people who want to contribute to the area, and there's no need to add more stones to it. With that lack, which is called positive, but also with that chaos, which may say negative, which we were in the previous debate, where very many people want to contribute in a good way, it is not certain that the sum will be the best. We have pointed out in the setting in one area that the Ministry and Government are looking at in particular, and there is a need for additional permissions for an immunisation program, a vaccine program in the area, as this has collapsed, and as it may seem that the World Health Organization thinks there is a need for additional funds for this. This is why a government is asking whether there is a need for money beyond the coordinated efforts requested by the United Nations for this purpose, and one has determined that the government needs to see to it that this important task is carried out. If there would be a need for extra privileges, this is possible later this year. If you don't need any additional permissions, don't need to get back to it. If the more general thing about this license, I'll just say a few things. As I said, the joyous thing is the great, private effort. It's also a pleasure, of course, that one of the Biggest's sides gathers around such an extra promise, that all of the parties do it. But in view of the debate we have just concluded, there has been no great problem in the Stortingen on emergency aid. Usemja has been dealing with the longer-term assistance. It brings me to the second point, which is «long term». It is an expression that has been used time and often about the efforts in this disaster area. Long-term may mean a lot, but it is important, as we have tried to achieve in the committee setting, that ‘long-term’ in this context obviously does not mean that one has intended to allow these countries to move into what is the long-term aid cooperation that Norway has, in addition to having a few countries already in cooperation. Sri Lanka is one of these. I'm just saying this because the manipulation here is a little bit approximate, as it becomes, of course, but it's necessary to specify what an actually means. With «long-term» one believes that there may be a need for support for a longer period of time, i.e. more than one year beyond the emergency aid phase. That's why you've also used this transitional assistance system, which is likely to be. Furthermore, we have two countries with which we cooperate more closely than the others, namely Sri Lanka and Indonesia. Indonesia is not a large recipient from Norway. Sri Lanka is in a special position. That's why we also point to Sri Lanka as being in a special position for what had to extend beyond the emergency aid phase that one is in. Another point that is also worth highlighting is that we say that the government has to look at the promises and needs in other areas, obviously based on the efforts here. We seem to be in the lucky situation that there's also a lot of willingness from the government in the different countries to make an effort here. Several people in the previous debate said that it's not just the private givargleda that varies depending on where the television camera is, but it's very much for the public. Several examples have our names. The great earthquake disaster in Iran is an example of one in no way getting what it needed. Maybe the government in the country had a part of the debt because it went as it went, but most of the examples are that it doesn't get what it needs. One approaches the situation around the Indian Ocean that one gets a larger part of what the United Nations is asking for, than one normally does in any other area. There is no negative. It's positive, but it only gives an extra responsibility to those who want to review and coordinate it so that one doesn't just go in one direction. But as we say, it must be the need that determines the effort as far as possible. Another point to which the Government takes up, to which the Committee joins, is the point of indebtedness, which is considered a possible instrument. But we also see that it is important for debt relief to come in this context because there is a need for it in the disaster area. This is not a bypass to get rid of debts for at least some of the regimes that would otherwise not be the ones that qualified for it first. But to the extent that indebtedness can be an instrument to facilitate repatriation and emergency aid and whatever it may be, it is something that we say must be possible to do quickly, insofar as one supports this purpose. But then one, like the Government, has made a few exceptions to this, it's for Somalia and Burma. In this context, given also some information that has come in the last few days, I would specifically mention Burma as a particular tragic example, where the military regime did not let the international community in this time either. Despite the fact that there was a disaster in the area, despite the fact that there is a major refugee problem in some of the areas that have probably happened, the international community did not escape this time into Burma. Together with other information that has come out recently on how our policies and other countries' policies towards this regime work or not, I will not make this a matter for this debate. I would just like to mention that there may be a need to look at how the policy works in relation to Burma, both our national and international, which is currently not working, and that there may be a need to address this to see whether it is possible to have new initiatives to influence the situation in this country, which unfortunately was also part of this disaster area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1086	The case rapporteur has gone through the essentials, and I can join everything that was then said. I'll just point out a few relationships. The committee setting also has a formulation related to non-governmental organisations to be supported, in relation to this billion, asking for the application to include organisations with a long experience in the areas concerned. It might not be the organisations like this. the media is most easily accessible at home, but which nevertheless does very affordable and active work in the areas concerned and which has a long experience. Industry development is mentioned in the government’s proposition and it will be important to get local nutrition back on track as soon as possible. There is also significant involvement in many environments in Norway, not least along the coast, in relation to fisheries. To the extent that you find positive, good projects and partners, and the government can contribute to it, I think it would be nice that that commitment was taken care of. As regards the channelling of the help, it will take place through different channels, and this will be handled by the Government. I just want to make a few comments about the fact that the authorities of Indonesia and Sri Lanka will have some challenges to do, knowing that parts of the Ache Province have been in a troubled situation and are partly in opposition to the central authorities of Jakarta. You have to have a look at how the population can benefit from this help in the best possible way. Not to withdraw it from the previous debate we had, but we're obviously concerned that the help reaches the population, as the government is, and that you don't feel that authorities, whether it's in Indonesia or elsewhere, are seizing some of the funds, so that not everyone who needs it gets the benefit of the help. Some alarming information has also been received from Sri Lanka and elsewhere in the case of children, orphans who are being tried and recruited into gills, etc. I guess the government has a look at this and follow it up, and you press the responsible ones who can be pressed in this way, so you can avoid this. It's very serious, and some of the most horrible results of this disaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1099	What we're going to do here today through this decision that's going to be made is we're going to follow up the giraffes that the Norwegian people have shown through collection actions, etc. I also said the whole word in what the case spokesperson said. But I want to take this up a little bit with the fact that there was no upper limit of 1 billion. From the party's meeting with the Government it was said that if there was a need for it, there could be further increases. What has been happening in this context is, of course, a WHO request for a vaccine programme and a concrete 140 million-dollar project. kr to the area. I'd like to ask the council to comment on that. There is no doubt that there should be no upper limit to such a tragedy like this. Of course, the vaccine will be a good part of the long-term work. Now we show that we are up and going with emergency and transitional assistance, but also the long-term has to go in. It doesn't at least apply to debt-delivery and everything that happens on this front. Norway must also make the best possible effort to follow up the proposals made by the Minister of Finance of England. We know that e.g. Indonesia spends a lot of money on paying debts -- without any indebtedness control, there's no doubt that parts of the old Suharto's debt are dictatorial debt that millions of people in Indonesia lir every day. Then there'll have to be possibilities to get an exposure. Then there must also be opportunities for Indonesia not to pay more on debt than they spend on simple things like housebuilding and schooling. I hope that we can get some comments from the Council of State. The SV will otherwise stop completely if the lead is entered here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1110	Let me first say that we on the Government's side are very pleased with the consultations we have had with the parties on the Stortinget in advance of this expansion proposition, and that we have been able to act quickly in common and make it clear that we are together, and that this is our contribution from the public to the national efforts that have actually gone all over the country. Let me just first note that there has been a good process around this. The second message that has been important, which I think we have had in common, and which I see in the attitude that we stand together about, is that this appropriation should be additional, in order to ensure that it does not go beyond other people in need in other parts of the world. We have focused on this in international work over the past two weeks, and we have also conducted a survey of the situation in the OECD, to see how the disposal of funds has been among donor countries. Not all countries have prepared their budget positions, several OECD countries now provide additional funds, just as Norway does, and withdraws from other budgets. There is some confusion associated with it, and others redispose within it. The image isn't completely black, it's a part that gives extra funds. But we can possibly come back to this when we get further. That is also the reason why I, and several others with me, have taken the initiative that we need to be better able to track and monitor the flow of aid funds in such situations, both whether the money being notified is paid and spent in the field, and where the money is taken from - i.e. the funding. It has also led to an initiative in international context. On an independent basis, the UN had started a process of thinking about this and contacted PricewaterhouseCoopers, who are now helping the United Nations coordinating operation, OCHA, and Jan Egeland in a screening work in relation to tsunami in particular. We have stated that we believe that there is a need on a more permanent basis, so that we get better overview and more comparable numbers and there is also a trace of where the funds are retrieved. So the concrete question that relates to the billion that the Storing here today will adopt for the victims of the tsunami disaster. We have been concerned about this, and I am very pleased with the signals given by the rapporteur, who is in the position, that the principles we normally follow in international aid and which we have identified in the development message we have just discussed should be followed in this situation as well. This means that we need to ensure international coordination, that acute coordination must be managed by the UN in cooperation with local and central authorities, and that next time, in the reconstruction phase, the authorities are to sit in the driver’s seat, locally and nationally. They have to make the priorities and lay the foundation for where we're going to help, and then we have to go up a division of labour with other donors. This is particularly important in the reconstruction phase, which we are now going into. We have paid about half of this amount in these days. We were allowed by the parliamentary leaders to use a little earlier. We've done it, but it goes out a lot today. We want about 500 million. available and assessed in the coming months to ensure optimal use of funds, coordinated and in line with their own needs. On that basis, and of course also the volumes internationally, we will return to the Storting if necessary and desirable. But that's what we'll evaluate along the way. Let me just focus on three other questions. One relates to the situation we have in the two countries that I understand The Great Britain agrees that we should concentrate most of the effort on, namely Sri Lanka and Indonesia. The situation related to conflict, in the case of Sri Lanka in the north-east and in Indonesia in the Ache province. There is no doubt that we are facing major challenges. A lot of resources and resources are going into a very vulnerable and difficult situation. That's why it's going to have a conflictful perspective and really coordinate an imperative in this context. So let's take that into account. In Sri Lanka, Norway has a special role to play, in the light of the efforts we have in the peace process. Here we will use both the contacts we have and the role we have to contribute to the most adapted approach possible, so that we do not destroy the assistance in relation to the conflict situation. We're working on this. An important key factor that will be access, access - all will be helped, all will receive reconstruction assistance, no one will be discriminated against. We must ensure guidelines for this. It also applies to the protection of children, who may be victims in such a situation. We are fully aware of this. Let me say in parentheses that we've got new numbers in the last few days. Only in the Ache province, there are 12,000 children left alone, and 560 schools are completely destroyed. Ensuring the protection of children in this situation is a major challenge. Let me then comment on the second point, which many have been concerned about in Stortinget, and which is also specifically mentioned in the setting, and that is immunization and vaccination of children. There is no doubt that many children in the flooded areas need protection from infectious diseases. To date, the most affected countries have had a relatively good infrastructure for immunisation of children, including in the United Kingdom. in cooperation with UNICEF and WHO. Parts of this infrastructure -- not all, but parts of it -- are now broken. Therefore, in the post-tsunami reconstruction work, there is a need to support the re-establishment of these functions. The government will therefore support the immunisation of children already in the acute phase of UNICEF and WHO, as part of the so-called UN Flash Appeal. With regard to the reconstruction of this offer, we are also prepared to contribute so that vaccination programmes can be fully restored. It is important that this should be done in line with the principles of changing governments, and on which the Grand Duchy has supported in the debate we have just had, namely that the United Nations must have a coordinating role, that the beneficiary countries must sit in the driver's seat and decide for themselves how to rebuild the work, including in the case of immunisation systems, that donor cooperation and the division of labour between donors be followed, so that we do not run in the legs of each other, and last but not least, that appropriations to the United Nations go through framework programmes and not directly earmarked at regional level, and that we ensure the sharing of costs between donors. In a letter sent by the World Health Organization to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 14 January, i.e. this weekend, to which several people have referred in the debate, a possible scheme for the reestablishment of such vaccination systems is outlined. The sketch is very tentative, and there remains for us a number of ambiguities that we need to clarify. This applies, inter alia, to: the relationship with the UN's overall appeal, the countries to which the aid is intended to be channelled - it is unclear - and the priorities and assessments of these countries themselves. As I said, they're the ones to sit in the driver's seat. In other words, we do not today have the information necessary to follow the principles that the Storting has just discussed and been engaged in in the management of aid resources. So we're going to try to clarify these questions. It will take place in direct contact with the countries concerned and with UN organisations. It is also natural that this should be discussed at the donor meetings that will take place in the near future. I can promise that I will immediately contact other like-minded donors to mobilise such support. However, I can now inform you that we will contribute to ensuring that the vaccination programmes and systems of the countries will be fully restored. In other words, it should not be in Norway in such a context. And last but not least what has been raised as a problem in the vote, and as the representative Jacobsen also mentioned, the question of debt and the handling of the debt of the tsunami countries: On 12 January, a possible debt moratorium for the countries concerned was discussed at the Paris Club, which is the coordinating body for the bilateral debt. There are preliminary differences in views on this in international debt negotiations, and the countries exposed to tsunami's meagres also have different assessments of the benefits they will derive from debt relief as an exceptional measure to provide room for reconstruction and development. So here's the different view in the different countries. I am also concerned that if an instrument is to be used as a debt extinguisher in such a context, one must be sure that it will benefit the flooded. That is why I am very pleased with the clear guidance that lies in the setting at this point. And on that basis, it might be relevant for the Government to come back to questions about debt relief later, for example. in the context of the revised national budget for 2005. But it's just a little early to say, that's going to be the situation and the negotiations going to work out internationally. We're at least willing to set up. But we'll see how this goes, and then we'll see if we can get solutions that the countries themselves want, and that will benefit the flooded -- and the last one will be not least important to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1133	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1398]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1141	We're going to vote on case No. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1148	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gunhild Eyeyang on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, from Bjørn Jacobsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for representation and negotiating mandates in the case of capital restockings in international financial institutions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1172	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate alternative forms of global income taxation for the United Nations system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1212	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-01-18.ana.ud1247e1330	There is no record.
