ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e49	Honourable co-representatives! The former depositors Oscar Olsen and Karstein Seland have died. Former P.O.O.O.L.L.O.L.L.D. is dead, 96 years old. The oil represented the Left Party and was elected to the Stortinget for the first time in 1945 for the Rogaland and West Agder outlets. He was a member of the Health Committee in the first period and served as the Secretary of the Committee. In the next period, he met as an alternate. He met again as an alternate in the period 1961-1965, then as a member of the Foreign Affairs and Constitution Committee and the Agriculture Committee. After the division of the Left in 1972, Olsen moved to the Liberal People's Party. Oscar Olsen finished his medical study in 1935 and started his medicine in Kristiansand in 1936. He later established his own private practice. He showed early a great commitment to the treatment of drug addiction. Together with the organisation Anonymous Alcoholics, he was established a clinic for the treatment of alcohol addicts. He ran the clinic until 1978. He showed great care for his patients, and many of them later became his employees. Oil has played a major role in research into alcoholism, both locally and nationally. He was delighted to see that this important work, for which he had laid the foundation, was carried on by other skilled professionals. Olsen was awarded the Order of St. Olav for his efforts in the field. Oscar Olsen also got involved in local politics. He was a member of Kristiansand City Council from 1947 to 1966 and from 1976 to 1979. In the period 1960-1966 he was chairman. He also had many other public duties. He was chairman of the Kristiansand Social Government and the Board of Medical Sciences. He also had a seat in the Council of Circuits and in the representation of the Directorate of Educasia. Oscar Olsen traveled a lot abroad, among others. in France and the United States, and he reported from his travels with newspaper articles and lectures. In the period 1943-1945 he served as a doctor for Norwegian refugees in Sweden, after having had to flee the country because of illegal work for Milorg. In 1948 he attended the Great Hague Conference, led by Winston Churchill. The Conference was a forerunner to the formation of the Council of Europe and an early milestone in the European integration efforts. In 1998, he had the joy of attending the 50th anniversary mark, as the only survivor from the twelve-man Norwegian delegation. Oscar Olsen had five children with his wife Hanny. Former P.A. Karstein Seland passed away on 13 January, at the age of 93. With the death of Seland, the Senter Party has lost one of its strong and strong trustees. Karstein Seland was born on 5 January 1912 in Gyland, West Agder. He took his vocational education at the Search for Agriculture School and the State School of Small Farm Teachers, where he was graduated in 1935. In 1938 Karstein Seland came to Blästad agricultural school, where he started as a teacher. From 1945 until 1973 he held the position of headmaster at Glamdal Agricultural and Forestry School, and from 1973 to 1977 he was a lecturer at Jønsberg Agricultural School. Seland often met as an alternate at Stortinget in the period 1961-1965. At the election in 1965 he was elected to a safe place, and he was a permanent member of the Stortinget in the periods 1965-1969 and 1969-1973. He was elected to the Agriculture Committee and chaired it from 1969 to 1973. Seland was also the head of the Central Party's agricultural committee during the time he was in the Agriculture Committee. In addition, he presided over the Municipal Committee for a period of time and was head of the Central Party Programme Committee in 1975. Seland was active in local politics. In 1958 he became a member of the Vinger Presidency, and from 1964 to 1967 he was a member of the Kongsvinger Presidency. From 1959 to 1964, Karstein Seland was president of the Hedmark Centerparti. Seland was also engaged in culture and church work, and he was a member of the Kongsvinger Congregation Council for a number of years. From 1973 to 1976 he was a member of the Cultural Government of Kongsvinger. In the period 1973-1978 he was chairman of the Vinger-Odal Prostiread. While Seland was attached to Blästad, he was head and teacher at Sunday school/Vang congregation house and chairman of Vang innermission. In the early 1950s he also led a hobby club for teenagers in Kongsvinger. Later he was chairman of Vinger Central School's school music and Kongswinger Hagelag. Seland was also a trade unionist, among others. as chairman of Kongsvinger and Omgn Bihärningslag 1947-1952, in Vinger Bondelag 1954-1959 and Norsk Agricultural Teachers Team 1973-77. In the period 1970 - 1972, he was also chairman of the Norwegian Building Sociological Society. Seland was also active in the Home Corps. After Seland retired, he was particularly committed to the elderly and pensioners. From 1987 to 1997 he was chairman of the Council and auxiliary services for pensioners in Kongsvinger. Seland was a committed person, who spent a lot of time and work for the party and society. We remember Oscar Olsen and Karstein Seland with deep respect and bring peace to their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e99	The representative Bjørn Hernæs, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Applications for maternity leave are submitted from the representative Synnøve Konglevoll from 2 February to 6 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Knut Werner Hansen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e122	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e125	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal to immediately reduce the fines for traffic offences, and to introduce new procedures for fixing, including an approach to the fines in countries with which it is natural to compare.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e130	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e143	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e150	In this case, there is a majority and a minority. The majority is of the opinion that the calculation rate of the transport sector should not be determined politically but on the basis of professional considerations and in accordance with the same principle as in other sectors. The majority believe that a one-sided political setting of the calculation rate for transport projects is not desirable, as this is primarily a professional issue, and political decisions can lead to great unforeseeableness. The majority will therefore await the work of the departments and the on-going technical assessments. The calculation rate is a two-part interest rate where part is based on risk-free interest rates, currently set at 3.5 pst, and a risk component based on which transport sector is involved. The aim must be to show the cost of the projects. According to the view of the Progress Party, this rate is not in line with either the interest rate ashore which it is natural to compare with, or the interest rate in reality, for that matter. Studies from several countries, including from the United States, shows that investment in transport, and especially in road construction, provides significant refunds to the large community. These include: shown that every dollar invested in the road network returns $6 in terms of economic growth, saved lives and damage. In this context, it is incomprehensible how the calculation rate is set to 8 pst. on road investments, which is much higher than for investments in other transport sectors. In this case, for example: there is a risk of a change in use, i.e. less than estimated use of the road. When was the last decline in traffic growth? Yeah, I don't know. Looking at the forecasts in the previous Norwegian road and road traffic plan and in the national transport plan in recent years, the problem is not that there has been too low growth in traffic, but the opposite is true. This shows that the so-called professional assessments are not near reality. It's my claim - as history also shows - that the use of the road network is very low cyclical, perhaps the mode of transport that is at least dependent on economic cycles. In other words, there is no logical explanation that investment should be subject to interest other than investment in projects related to, for example: rail, if for political reasons it is not intended to distort investment from one transport sector to another. And it's okay to wonder if that's not exactly what's happened over time. Another minus, with the eyes of the Progress Party, is that the differentiation of interest weakens the freest possible competition between modes of transport and thus gives a higher price to the user than is necessary. Therefore, the forwarding party wants the interest rate to be set at 4 pst. for all modes of transport, and promote the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e163	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e166	There has been a drop in the share of the state budget that we spend on the past twenty years on a social model, from over 8 pst. for less than 3 pst. It's made a sense that investing in the way of the world is wretched. It's completely incomprehensible to most people, including most of us sitting in this room, that it shouldn't be profitable to invest in the business so that people can both work and live throughout this country. The calculation rate's high level has some of the blame for making the impression. In fact, Svinesundsbrua has been considered to have a net benefit on the Swedish side, but not on the Norwegian side. When we know how many more harerusts there are from Norway to Sweden than the other way around, it's not going to matter. An assessment of the net benefits has been made in the national transport plan. At the current level, there is a negative net benefit from road investment of NOK 1.5 billion. If the interest rate had been changed to 5 pst, it would have been a positive benefit of 12 billion kroner. It's clear that it gives a different experience of what the situation is, and what it's best to do with the money. The Labour Party would not, however, be in favour of political determining the level, but we would give some indication that the way we have it now, we can't have it. We have been positive that there may be a reason to have a differentiated calculation rate for the different modes of transport, and we have been quite clear that the level has to go down, especially on the road. For cost evaluations, they have a limited value. It's not that we put ourselves flat for this as the only argument for whether or not to join a project. But there's a kind of psychological climate that gives a sense that now we're using the money in a way that's wretched, when we have this high level. We still think it should be professionally determined, but as I said, this has to go down. I met Professor Hervik -- who, as far as I understand, has listened to before in these questions -- at a conference a few weeks ago. He said she's going down and she's going down fast. That's essentially what I want from the Council of State here today: does the interest rate go down, and does it happen quickly? There's a great outrage around the country in relation to this, because people feel that the method of calculation doesn't match what they think is important. Among other things, the NHO had a meeting here recently, where they pointed to this as the most important thing. So it's very important that something is now being done, and that the Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, I hope, will arrive at a calculation rate that is more comparable to the calculation rate in our neighbouring countries - there should be no reason for anything else - and that matches what people experience as reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e177	The issue today concerns the change in the calculation rate. It's a proposal that comes from the Central Party. As you know, the calculation rate is a two-part interest rate to show the costs of different transport projects. I'm not going to go into what it consists of, because the rapporteur explained. But what the proposer and the Progress Party think is that this rate is too high and that it leads to many road projects being considered unprofitable. To put it this way, it may seem after the review that is going on, that the proposer may be right, but we are completely in disagreement with the Central Party and the Advance Party, which will have a politically determined interest rate of 4 pst. It would be unfortunate to set the calculation rate politically. This will include, inter alia: be difficult to distinguish between political and professional assessments, and the system will become highly unpredictable. I am pleased that the Government is following up the National Transport Plan in this area and is now assessing the interest rate from a professional point of view. The interest rate seems unreasonably high for many when this is assessed, and this example is presented with E6 and new Svinesundsbru, where it is seen that the project is profitable in Sweden but unprofitable in Norway. We look forward to getting the case from the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance if not too long, because it is important for us too. Again, I am pleased that there is a majority in favour of not setting the calculation rate politically, and that Document No. The 8 proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e188	Quite briefly, in the Christian People's Party too, we are concerned about the size of the calculation rate, and on several occasions we have asked questions about the problem of profitable and unprofitable projects, especially in the road sector. But like the others in the majority, we are also opposed to political entering into and determining the calculation rate. It will be a sort of tipping from time to time that we in the Christian People's Party will not be in. We have to see this in a context. We also need to look at how other sectors treat their calculation rate. Then I find it reassuring that both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance have initiated investigations that will end up in a new observation about the size of the calculation rate. We in the Christian People's Party believe that we get back to the matter and evaluate the result when there is one.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e193	Document No 8:8 for 2004-2005 from Karin Galaaen and me to change the calculation rate for the transport project to 4 pst. is a follow-up to the report of the Centre in the NAP 2006-2015. In the setting of the National Transport Plan, the Centre said in a note that we mean that the Norwegian calculation rate is far too high compared to the calculation rate in our neighbouring countries. We also said that we don't think there are good reasons to differentiate the calculation rate between the different modes of transport. The letter to the Committee of the Ministry of Transport refers to the fact that the responsibility for drawing up the guidelines for the use of the calculation rate in the transport sector is shared between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport. Furthermore, it is said that there is a continuous assessment of whether there is a basis for changing the risk impact. So far there has been no signal indicating that the departments will come up with a quick proposal to change the calculation rate. With the high rate of calculation we have in Norway, there are very few commercial projects that are profitable. With the interest rate we have today, projects in the transport sector can be assessed against projects in the stock market. Do we mean, then, that there is as much risk of building good infrastructure in the country as of speculating on the stock exchange? Several people are calling for us to invest only in profitable projects. Is it possible, then, that we have a high calculation rate to make most of the transport projects unprofitable and thus keep the transport investment down? Some people use as a defense argument for the high calculating rate that it does not change the relationship between different projects. No, but it won't do a lower calculation rate. The higher interest rate, on the other hand, makes most projects unprofitable, while lower interest rates make more projects profitable. The risk component of the calculation rate is determining the total interest rate to be applied. I'm surprised that the risk should be so high in a system where risk analysis and risk margins are also included in the projects themselves. And why is it just Norway that has this high risk part? I haven't heard any reasonable explanation as to why we're going to separate from our neighbouring countries or other European countries. In both the ministry’s letter and the debate today, a point has been made that the calculation rate for the transport sector is not to be determined politically. In the letter to the Committee, the Department writes in particular: that this document No. The 8 proposal implies that the calculation rate, and thus the results of cost-benefit analyses, will be politically determined, that it will be difficult to distinguish between professional and political assessments, and that this will be unfortunate. Yes, I see this problem. But then there is reason to point out that socio-economic analyses of civil society projects have often been criticised, and there have been questions about whether they are good enough as a basis for decision. Therefore, it cannot be said that the high calculation rates in Norway have a solid professional anchoring. In the setting we are dealing with today, a number of people - all except the Progress Party and the Center Party - have said that they are of the opinion that the calculation rate should not be determined politically, but on the basis of professional considerations and in accordance with the same principle as in other sectors. This plurality refers to the setting for Norwegian transport plan 2006-2015, where different pluralities indicate that the calculation rate is higher in Norway than in our neighbouring countries. The formulations behind the multiple of the options we are debating today are much more cautious than the formulations of the same parties in the Norwegian Transport Plan setting. In the Norwegian Transport Plan setting, the Workers' Party and the Progress Party were together with the Centre Party on a note there, among other things. said: ‘These members are asking the Government to reduce the calculation rate so that it comes closer to our neighbouring countries.’ Right and Christian People's Party said in the same setting, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘These members consider that a change in the interest rate of calculation would lead to a lower level of the risk element and a smaller difference between the transport modes.’ The progress piece would all set the calculation rate to 4 pst. Sitata from the Norwegian Transport Plan setting for approx. Six months ago, the Committee actually wanted a lower calculation rate. Today, more parties are expressing themselves less specifically. However, there should be a signal to the Government that all parties have shown that they want a lower interest rate, even though today there will not be a multiple for the proposal in Document No. 8:8.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e227	The background to the proposal that the calculation rate should be changed to 4 pst. is, as I see it, that today’s system is difficult to understand, and that the level may appear high, especially when compared with the level in other countries, and especially in those countries where systematic risk is not addressed by a premium in the calculation rate. It has been claimed, and it is true, that the calculation rate varies between countries. I would like to stress that the calculation rate will be of cross-border importance if you have a common budget from which to allocate money, and if you base the calculation rate as a criterion for priorities. In the case of Svinesund, which is an example here, I would like to remind you that Norway has been an active driver for the construction of the Svinesund link. Despite the fact that it is considered to be a profitable project on the Swedish side, probably the activity has been a lot bigger on the Norwegian side to get it implemented, because we consider it to be a good project for society as such. This is a signal that the calculation rate may not be good enough today in relation to the calculations to be made. Neither the calculation rate nor the rest of the methodology are perfect, and we have to take that into account. It is also an important element that needs to be further worked on professionally. I believe it is important that it is a professional question. We need a good basis for decision making, both in the transport sector and in other sectors. It is important that we have a good professional basis. Work is ongoing both in the Ministry of Finance and in the Ministry of Transport. As previously stated to Stortinget, responsibility for the design of the guidelines for the use of the calculation rate in the transport sector is shared between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has established the guidelines for the treatment of the calculation rate, based on a risk-free interest rate currently 3,5 pst. and a call for systematic risk. What is contained in today's guidelines is based on a proposal drawn up by a sample led by Arild Hervik some years ago. The Ministry of Finance is now working on a review of the Ministry’s guidance for socio-economic analyses, including: guidelines for setting the calculation rate are assessed. This work will be completed in the near future and the implementation of the Ministry of Transport's project will be adapted to this. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Finance's guidelines apply to the entire state administration. It would be a bit strange if the Stortinget were to set the calculation rate for one sector, while the rest of the central government had to deal with the Ministry of Finance's guidelines. On the basis of this, I believe that the Storting does well not to adopt the level of the calculation rate in the transport sector, but that we will have a broad review of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e245	The Labour Party agrees with the Council of State that it is not the politicians who are going to adopt the calculation rate, which I think could be an insecure move. But at the same time, I agree with the proposal providers that interest rates are too high. Now the state council says there's gonna be a change soon. Hervik, as the council refers to, has taken a distance from his own suggestions, at least he thinks something else now than what he did a few years ago. I only have one question: is interest going down?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e253	It may be wrong for me to sketch out which guidelines the Ministry of Finance comes with. But according to other developments in society, it's reasonable to assume that if there's a change, the interest rate is going to go down rather than up. At the same time, I would like to stress that if anyone who has made professional contributions to the investigation should change their views gradually, we will make proper assessments of the investigations before professional guidelines are developed. Now we're waiting for what comes from the Ministry of Finance. We in the Ministry of Transport will follow up our part of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e258	In a lecture in Stjørdal in January, the Council of State said the same thing as Secretary of State Ellingsen has said in several debates in which I have participated, namely that the calculation rate has little or no meaning for the projects. I find that very strange. Then why do we have it? Is not the calculation rate intended to be used as a real tool to show the real differences between projects? Today, no one, not even the Minister of Transport, thinks it works and is right. It's amazing that a calculation rate -- which is set in real terms, and which shows a refund to society that surpasses the yield from the oil fund -- should not affect the use of funds taken by society by the Storting. Does the Council of State really mean that it should be so?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e263	Of course, it could be very tempting for a Council of State to say which criteria large-scale representatives should focus on prioritising the allocation of funds to projects. Now it doesn't work that way. I do not know in how many projects the Progress Party has chosen to place a decisive emphasis on socio-economic analyses, and in which they have not stressed it. I would warn you that you only use theoretical calculations for the decisions you make in relation to where you're going to spend the money. If we knew that the methodology was perfect, we could do it, but then we didn't need politicians. But we are politicians, ombudsmen of the inhabitants of this country, and we need to address the needs we see around. That is why I consider the calculation rate and methodology of socio-economic analyses as one element of the decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e268	From those who do not want the calculation rate to be politically determined, it is often claimed that there are professional assessments on the basis of the calculation rate we have today. At the same time, we know that the socio-economic analyses that are used in relation to the transport project are highly questionable. I would like to challenge the Council of State: what kind of professional assessments are there that are the basis of such socio-economic analyses, which we might all be able to be some if not good enough? What kind of professional foundation do we have for the high calculation rate we have in Norway today? So the Council of State said in a previous post that the assessment that is being made will end in the near future. But are we talking in a year or two? When can we expect such an assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e275	In relation to time: In the near future means the near future. When we start to prepare work on new four-year plans and 10-year plans, we in different sectors depend on guidelines on what should be used for the purposes of professional assessments. In this context, we need to clarify these issues. So here everyone is interested in that we get quick clarifications. For me, it is difficult to answer how quickly the Ministry of Finance gets to decide this matter. It would be better to ask the Minister of Finance about that. There are professional assessments on the basis of traffic forecasts, theoretical calculations of costs of both direct effects and indirect effects of the transport project, and there are professional assessments that support the return requirements of the capital invested in a project. We intend to focus on these professional assessments also in the future, but they should be reviewed at regular intervals, and we are doing so now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e284	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1444]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e301	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e310	Document No 8:16 for 2004-2005 addresses various aspects of electronic toll collection. There is a comprehensive committee that points out in the setting that it is important that the collection system of toll projects is simple and as cost-effective as possible. Electronic ticketing has led to simplification for road users. It has also led to a reduction in the operating costs of the toll companies. It is an objective that tolls collected should go as far as possible to investment in the projects and not to the operation of the toll companies. Today, the collection is carried out in installations with electronic payment in different ways. Several pilot projects are under way, and a system is being developed to facilitate the collection of tolls from foreign vehicles. The Committee believes that the work on achieving the best possible electronic toll collection is well under way. In addition, the Ministry of Transport is working on a regulation to regulate the important principle of toll financing. The Committee therefore expects that this regulation will provide guidelines for simple, cost-effective and practical toll collection and that this will be thoroughly assessed before the regulation is completed. The Committee therefore finds it unnecessary to address the specific proposals in Document No. 8:16, but the Committee recommends that the document be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e325	The Progress Party does not have its own proposal in this case, because, as the rapporteur said, the Department is working on it and is looking at how to design new regulations. I would just like to say that the Progress Party is in principle opposed to road toll financing. With the large fees paid annually by the State from the cars, the roads were to be financed with fresh funds from the state as a road user. The Progress Party would like to see toll-funded roads paid down by the State and toll stations built up gradually. But once the toll system is introduced, and it works, we see that it can be a saving by doing this electronically. The cost of operating these toll stations is today at 10-15 p.m., so there can be a little bit of money, so you can pay off the debt faster, or you can build more roads. That being said, we hope that the regulations will also address a connection in terms of ferry traffic, so that both the road system and the ferries are seen in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e336	It is well known that the Left is using its two mandates in the Storting to impose more and more tolls on the Norwegian people. The left is the right-hand brake block for a build-up of transport that can strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry along the coast and in the districts. In the event of a government change, SV sits in this position and is a brake block on the left-hand side. Now several polls indicate that the voters will have the Left out and the Coastal Party on the tip of the Stortinget after the autumn elections. The coastal part will be a building block where left and SV are brake blocks. I expect the Council of State to give me an answer to five questions that I have for her. According to the Ministry's letter to the Committee on Transport, clarification of practical and internationally acceptable conditions relating to anonymous electronic collection is being undertaken without the possibility of cash payment. Question 1: Is the ongoing effort to create a piece that both meets the demand for anonymity and at the same time provides the discount schemes that have been a prerequisite for toll packages locally? Question 2: The Ministry confirms the discrimination between Norwegian and foreign cars - it is a clear competitive disadvantage for Norwegian carriers. How long is discrimination to last? Question 3: Has negotiations with the EU so far signaled that they will approve a system whereby all EU registered cars are required to buy a toll bar at border crossing into Norway, or is an EU in economic crisis willing to establish its own collection bureaucracy on behalf of the only country in Europe that has both a large surplus of the state budget and uses only a quarter of the car tax demanded by its citizens to improve its road system? Question 4: Can the Storting expect all of these conditions to be resolved before the next toll package proposal is presented to the Stortinget? In areas where toll networks favouring urban/rural interaction are established, protests against this form of extra tax are persistently massive. The dissatisfaction is not diminished when it is also revealed that toll companies use the car drivers' money to cover other purposes - according to the discretion of the board members. Question 5: In Haugaland almost 40,000 protested against a system that most people perceive as deeply unfair. The arguments used for local identification are that no local authorities will receive any more money for the development and improvement of their infrastructure without their own participation in tolls. If this is true, it means that in the future, drivers have to pass at least one collection point each time they cross a municipal border. Will the Council of State confirm or deny that this is the Government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e357	It may seem that the Coastal Party has intended to be the largest brake block in order for us to carry out some very important - also toll-funded - projects in this country. I want to remind you that very many of the toll projects we have here in the country, we have to replace eternal toll projects. Like the ferry relief projects: the ferries, which are part of our national road network today, represent, in practice, eternal tolls. Among other things, these are part of a tolling system I want to get replaced by a temporary one, which then leads to that we can later not have it. I would say that the Left is really a driver for us to get rid of part of these eternal toll projects. If the Coastal Party intends to have a different profile in this respect, it may be the choice of the Coastal Party. Simplification is now under way and making it less expensive to run these toll projects. It's absolutely right that it costs users to pass the toll stations. But it is also the case that the same users benefit from the projects much earlier than they would otherwise have received - if you alone would have based on state resources. No one has toll financing as an ideal solution. But because people have shown an interest and an commitment to implementing projects that they see as both wanted and important for individuals and for businesses, you choose to do this. This I intend to continue during my period as Minister of Transport, and I am actually proud that we have implemented many of these projects. I agree that we have to do this in a good way. Toll-financed projects are also available within the EU. There are forms of funding that require a traveler to participate in and pay, and it is clear that there will be a regular dialogue with the EU on how this will be designed. There is now a major debate in the EU on charging systems for drivers/cars travelling on European roads. It is also that the Left Party is concerned with the possibility of anonymity in relation to how we move around in society. The fact that we leave electronic tracks in many places has its sides. Therefore, we have been concerned about the possibility to have both discount schemes when passing toll stations and anonymous alternatives. We're going to work on this. To the issue of Stortinget can know which of these questions has been resolved before the next toll project comes: Stortinget will know before the next project comes. It is also the case that the Storting has the opportunity to say no or yes to proposals that come from this government. If anyone feels uncomfortable about the Left and this government being too busy to carry out good transportation projects, Stortinget has the opportunity to stop it - also the Coastal Party. I am concerned that, when we choose to use toll financing, we will have good, effective solutions that will represent as much as possible in extra costs. We shall have the minimum additional costs associated with this form of funding. And there is a point that those who experience the benefits of a project will be allowed to experience that benefit, but that the burden of paying on a toll project will also be with them, and that those who do not benefit from a project will not have to be involved in paying. We're going to work on this principle of justice. In conclusion, I believe that for the future, too, we must be willing to show a certain spirit of virtue in order to carry out good projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e383	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e386	In 2011, free competition from low-cost countries in our neighbourhoods will be released, without shielding opportunities for national businesses. We only have the years until 2011 to strengthen our competitiveness. Norway differs from the other European countries in several areas, not least in relation to the relationship between population density, transport structure and value added areas. While other European countries have densely concentrated population in industrial areas where value creation takes place and a well-functioning transport network for both freight and passenger traffic in these areas, Norway has its main coastal and rural production businesses, where the infrastructure for transport is most underdeveloped, and the densest population concentration and the best transport possibilities are around Oslo, where value creation is most dependent on transport. While other countries in Europe do what they can to ensure their business life, including the value of goods transport, this government seems to be most concerned with flagging out both transport services and its own production businesses, by putting them on a competitive footing under different conditions. The coast's cargo fleet is being flagged out and the work stations are being taken over by Poles and balers. If there is no discrimination between Norwegian and foreign carriers, we can expect Norwegian road hauliers to set up offices in Poland and the Baltic region and register their car fleet there. Norwegian coastal export companies will be forced to collect transport contracts from foreign companies in order to prevent the increased competitive disadvantage of an increasingly dense forest of non-residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e397	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1444]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e412	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e419	The working party has proposed the introduction of mandatory training for drivers of recreational craft. The right-hand side shares the concerns of the proposers about an increasing number of marine accidents. These are often caused by high speed and often in combination with alcohol. However, the difference between the government parties and the Labour Party is, as in many other cases, that we have a different view of what instruments should be put in place. Boat driver training is useful and necessary and today there is such a requirement for boat drivers over a certain size. All those travelling on the sea should take responsibility for their own safety and the safety of others. Many choose to take the boat driving test even if they do not carry large boats. It shows that you take responsibility. Even I have had great use and joy of this. A mandatory statutory boat driver test is not necessarily to start at the right end in order to be able to bow at high speed and to drive unwittingly. Although there is a provision on driving licences for cars, we see that high speed and alcohol also represent a danger in traffic. In 1999, the Bondevik I Government presented an action plan to reduce the number of accidents at sea. It was then possible to take boating skills as an option in high school, and there is also the use of simplified facilities for speeding at sea. Parents also have and should take special responsibility for creating good attitudes in children and young people. Secondly, they are responsible for the fact that the children do not drive bigger and faster boats, with a larger engine, than the age and skill required. Police have an important role to play in ensuring safety at sea. They have an important prevention role by being more visible than is the case in many places today. The ability to print simplified presentations also makes police work more effective and is an important preventative measure. Nor should you forget the boatmasters' own responsibility. The drivers of recreational craft have a separate responsibility to acquire the knowledge needed both to drive the boat and the special rules applicable at sea. The police have added 330 million. extra kr in operational funds for 2005. This shall contribute to ensuring a visible and security police force. We assume that this will also increase the police presence at sea during the boat season. The majority of the Judicial Committee and the proposals put forward by the Labour Party do not differ in the description of the problems that arise in relation to the movement of a leisure boat at sea. Moreover, disagreement does not address the different measures and their need for them. The disagreement is whether the law enforcement of the mandatory boatmaster’s test/certificate ensures a behaviour at sea that follows the rules and takes the necessary account. The majority - the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party - do not want to introduce statutory boatmaster training. In order to reach the target audience, which is traditionally responsible for the violation of the rules at sea, it is important, in our view, for awareness campaigns and awareness-raising work in general, both from authorities and non-governmental organisations, as well as for individuals to take responsibility for acquiring the knowledge needed in this area. There is no disagreement that seafaring by recreational craft has increased and that the need for increased efforts to improve safety is present. The majority of the Judicial Committee and the rapporteurs of the Labour Party also do not disagree with the description of the problems that arise in this respect. The disagreement arises as to whether it is necessary to regulate. We do not want that. We believe that it is important that we pay particular attention to the issues of awareness-raising and the responsibilities of the various bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e447	In recent years, the number of recreational boats has increased significantly. In addition, both the size of the boats and not least the size of the engine and more advanced equipment are characteristic of today's recreational craft. This means that the requirement for the boatmaster has become larger and larger. Mastering a boat that is operating in 50-70 knots with very advanced equipment is not always as easy. Among other things, the number of calls to the Rescue Service in recent years indicates that this has increased quite significantly. In addition, the enquiries show that many people lack the basic knowledge they should have to carry such boats. Both in the summer of 2003 and in the summer of 2004 there were many headlines in the media about unwealthy boating and not least about accidents. Even in 2003, the newspaper had a series of articles to document the lack of boat fat by the Norwegians. In one of the articles, it was found that in 2003 the main association of the insurance industry had a prognosis showing that small boat accidents would lead to approx. 7 800 damages, and that payments would amount to a total of 146 million. kr. The rescue company, which runs all our lifeguards, concluded that many lacked completely elementary knowledge of moving on the sea - more and more who have sailboats, called for help when the engine failed, because they cannot lift sails, and boat drivers used road maps instead of drafts when they were on the fjord. In addition, the boats were full of electronic equipment that many people had problems using. As stated in Document No. The 8 proposal from several workers' party representatives has been presented by several governments over the years to document both staging messages and other documents relating to boat safety. The latter was an action plan for accidents involving recreational craft, presented by the Bondevik I government in April 1999. It's almost six years ago, and accident statistics have only gone up. The background to the Bondevik I action plan was the attitude of a working group to propose measures to combat accidents involving recreational craft. In their attitude, they said, among other things: the following on compulsory boatmaster training: ‘It is clear that even high-speed recreational craft can pose a high safety risk if they are not used sensibly. Today, for example, a 16-year-old can lead a boat with several hundred horsepowers in 50-70 knots. A combined equation can be mentioned as requiring a certificate to carry a moped of 5 horsepower and a maximum of 50 km/h. So far, many have benefited from a voluntary boating course. However, experience suggests that precisely the most speedy has been difficult to reach with such courses, which would at least provide a minimum of knowledge.In order to prevent accidents with an ever increasing number of very high-speed pleasure boats, it is, in the view of the group, absolutely necessary to ensure that drivers of such boats have a certain minimum of knowledge of the hazards which may arise at sea and of the rules applicable to safe passage there.» This working group was composed of representatives from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Environment, the Directorate of Maritime Affairs, the Swedish Coastal Agency, the Inspectorate of Maritime Affairs and the Maritime Campaign. So it was in 1996. Already then was a concern for development. Now it's almost nine years, and it hasn't gotten any better, on the contrary. That is why the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs has given its opinion on the matter again, last autumn. It is now the case that everyone, except those who sell boats, is in favour of a compulsory boat licence. Norwegian People's Aid and Port Police in Oslo do the exact same thing. I am disappointed with the government parties and the Progress Party in this matter. I am particularly disappointed because they have not heard a single instance in this matter. The police are not heard, the Maritime Directorate, which is responsible for maritime safety in Norway, is not heard, the Rescue Company, who knows the issue, has been heard, and the rescue helicopter service has not been heard. All of these could tell the Committee why mandatory boatmaster training should be introduced in order to save society from accidents and loss of life. The strangest thing is that neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of Industry have been heard in this matter. Nor are the two Councils of State - the Minister of Justice, who are responsible for such training, and the Minister of Industry, who is responsible for maritime safety in Norway. This is a strange procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e471	It would have been tempting to start by commenting on the previous speaker's assessment of what is reasonable, and what is unreasonable, and by listening to professionals and not listening to professionals. Now, fortunately, politics is just about taking on a political responsibility and having a stand, and then it's optional who you choose to listen to. Then, of course, we can discuss reason/reason in relation to it. But at the end of the day, politics is about making decisions and standing up to what you think is right. However, let me fully support the intention of the proposers. We all clearly want to reduce the number of accidents by boat, in the same way that we want to reduce the number of accidents on the road, in the air and in any context, given that human life is incredibly much worth. But there are some of us that are relatively skeptical about saying that, for example. mandatory boatmaster training will be salutative here. I think the answer is something completely different. The answer is the attitude of some of us to respect others and to respect ourselves in the different arenas where we act. It's no use that the entire Oslo Earth is full of people who have had boat driver training, if they don't comply with what they've actually learned. And then we're back to the attitude of the individual of us. Most people who drive in this country have a driving licence. So they have taken part in a driver training course that makes them qualified to drive on Norwegian roads. We're still reading about violations of the Road Traffic Act, we're reading about major accidents. Then my question becomes, at least to myself: is it that driver training is rewarding, or is it to the seventh and last act of the individual of us who are the answer to success or not success? For my part, I have come to realize that it is the responsibility that each of us takes, which at the end gives a possible win. Therefore, at least I believe that the most important thing we can do about these kinds of challenges and problems is to give priority to the focus on attitude. If we can change people's attitudes, we can do something about the problems we're facing. Another element that can also be included here is the role of the police as a control body. If people see that one can freely engage in an activity that affects others, the police have a task to do in relation to combating that type of activity, in the same way that they have in relation to road traffic. So here, I think the most important thing we do is about control and accountability, while at the same time focusing on the mind-creating. There has been talk of young boat drivers. Yes, of course, it's a core point for all of us that we're concerned about our kids and what they're doing -- it's for all of our parents. Then we're in on a new point that's important, that's the role of parents in this. I think that in our society we sometimes tend to be very concerned about making rules for one and the other. The intention is always good, but I miss that more attention is focused on the parents in this context. I think the parental role is undoubtedly one of the most important in relation to what kind of boats the adults offer their children. If the adults are unreasonable, I'm afraid that we will get a result that is then, a generation after. The same applies to alcohol. The way you relate to alcohol in different contexts is a mirror for the children you have. That's where the core challenge is, at my discretion. The size can, with all due respect, decide in its entirety, it doesn't help if people out there don't respect it and go ahead as good role models for their children. I assume that the Department and the Council of State are deliberately focusing on the challenges posed by the proposers through various types of awareness-raising measures, not least police controls. If it turns out that there are things that are not good enough, I am reasonably sure that the Council of State will take it and come back to the Stortinget and say that the department has now seen that changes have to be made here, and ask for the approval of the Stortinget. If those proposals are good and sensible, I am absolutely sure that the Council of State will hear them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e484	We're all concerned with the zero vision on our roads. Of course, the same vision must also apply to all those who travel at sea. One person injured or killed at sea is one too much. In recent years, both public and non-governmental organisations have implemented a number of measures to reduce the number of accidents involving recreational boats. The Bondevik government presented a plan of action against accidents involving recreational boats in April 1999. Here was the focus on boating skills as an electoral profession in high school. Attitudes need to be created long before young people start in higher education. If boatmasters are to be taught good behaviour at sea, training must start from the time when children are first admitted to a boat with an engine. Experience suggests that it often occurs at an age of eight to ten years. Every year between 20 and 30 people die in a recreational boat because they fall overboard and do not get into the boat again. In 2002, 31 people were killed in 28 accidents using a recreational boat. Of these, one was a woman and the rest were men. Much indicates that men are more vulnerable at sea than women. Of the 31 who died, 13 were killed by falls from the jolt, ten from the open boat, ten by the edge ring, and twelve by the fall overboard. At least eight of the victims were alcohol-induced, and at least 24 were without flotation equipment. This shows that very much is about attitudes. Many accidents with men overboard could have been avoided with some preparation and practice. A number of smaller recreational craft lack equipment to get themselves or others on board again. But the main problem is probably all those who haven't thought through how to deal with a critical situation. Security is the skipper's responsibility. The combination of alcohol consumption and high speed, as well as the lack of self-rescue knowledge, is the major challenge for small boats at sea. This is a responsibility each person in the boat has to take seriously, it is not necessary to ask whether the skipper has boat driver training or not. In other words, knowledge and knowledge are not always felt to cooperate in the best interests of everyone in the boat. Control of speed violations at sea is the police's task. At the same time, the control of safety equipment on board will also act as a precautionary measure in relation to accidents. In the ultimate sense, we all have responsibility for our own lives, even when we stay in a leisure boat. That is why we should all learn the rules of the sea, such as: encourages the idea of safety, respect for weather and waters, use life jackets or flotation, rest and sober and - not least - show consideration. The Christian People's Party believes that the attitude-building work done by governments, non-governmental organisations and professionals may be the main contribution to reducing the number of accidents at sea. In addition, all those travelling on the sea should prepare for an accident and think about how to behave. Care is a well-known principle when we travel along our roads. Attention at sea appears to be temporarily absent. This is a challenge for those who are all boat drivers -- not least how we adults behave at sea in relation to children and young people, who copy our actions to good and bad. There is little help with boating licences if we do not comply with the rules on sea water.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e499	First, I want to join the very good post of the representative Fossli of the Workers' Party. SV also applies for mandatory boatmaster training in some form. Last year, 51 Norwegians died in a recreational boat accident. The whole 47 of these were men, and there was a fall overboard that was the most common cause of death. The statistics also show that most people who died were alone in the boat. Royal Copenhagen Norwegian Boat Federation, Rescue Company and Marine Water Commissions in the country will now have compulsory training. Expert advice for marine and recreational craft consists of the Directorate of Maritime Affairs, the Norwegian Maritime Industry Federation, the Coastal Agency, associations for recreational craft, the Police Service, the Rescue Company, the Maritime Committee and the Archipelago Service, all of which are in favour of mandatory training. To Jan Arild Ellingen of the Advancement Party, I must say that if you are to choose who you should listen to, as he said from the Chair instead, you must first lend your ear to the different people who can have a meaning. In Norway, hunting is subject to certification despite excessive resistance when this requirement is introduced. Now everyone agrees that the hunters' knowledge and skills have become significantly better than before. Licences are also required for driving trucks, certificates for driving cranes, certificates for driving mopeds and of course certificates for driving cars. I guess I don't think so. The Progress Party had referred to parental responsibility in these contexts. SV cannot understand why training or a type of certificate should not be required to run a boat, at least a boat of a certain size and which can achieve a certain speed. Today, a 16-year-old can drive a boat with several hundred horsepowers in 50-70 knots. A certificate is required for the same 16-year-old to carry a moped with 5 horsepowers up to a maximum of 50 km per hour. Most accidents involving recreational craft are caused by high speed, use of drugs, lack of life-saving equipment and lack of maritime competence. The 1996 Working Party on Combating Casualty Accidents proposed the introduction of training and certification requirements in order to be able to operate recreational boats capable of 10 knots or more, having 10 horsepowers or more than 8 m. There has been an increase in the number of marine casualties since the working group gave its decision. This is related to several things, which the representative of the Workers' Party has previously been involved in. Many have, for example: very advanced equipment which is complex to use. In addition, there is a part that does not have enough knowledge in relation to driving a boat. It is also clear that alcohol plays a role in some of the accidents. In the EU, there is now to be a joint arrangement for mandatory boat drivers training, and several countries in Europe have already introduced the training. All member organisations of the Nordic Council now believe that the need for mandatory training will force itself before or after. Royal Copenhagen Norwegian Motorboat Association emphasises that the negative developments in unwitting behaviour at sea have led to an increasing demand for some form of training. At the same time, we can accept that a boat driver's license that applies to everyone must have transitional arrangements for people who have gained long-term competence at sea and who have owned or run a recreational boat that is more than 8 meters long, for more than five years. National boat organisations may, in cooperation with the authorities, be delegated responsibility for issuing boat driving licences based on a certified self-declaration, as indicated in the notes of the Workers' Party and SV. This, we believe, gives the proposal the necessary flexibility, so that we would think that more people could support it. Unfortunately, it turns out that this is not the case. We believe, however, in the same way as the boat people's own organizations, that this unfortunately will eventually force itself forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e520	I'm going to do some small considerations in addition to what's found in the committee setting. Traditionally, people at sea have felt both freedom and responsibility. That's why many seafaring -- some at least -- fell heavily for the chest when we introduced per mille limit. But we did it because we found it absolutely necessary. I think that the debate that is going on today will come back, and it will come back for a single reason: it is a phenomenon I as the ferryer observing in Blindlead every summer, and it is all the people who are boating, but acting like they are driving a car on water. And when you know how some people drive a car on land, it's not comforting when they bring the behavior on the water. And then many people may be right that proof in itself is not enough when you see people who drive quietly but who place children with life jackets right in front of the boat. In case the child had fallen into the sea, it had ended up with a great disaster. You can at all wonder a lot about what kind of social experiment takes place when people feel the freedom that the sea often gives. But freedom and responsibility are connected. I follow the attitude that is here today, but I want to follow very closely the views that are evolving throughout the maritime environment and not least in the police. Because it's the way our police are going to go in and replace what people know, so the police can't do it. They can make it a certain point, and we know that on parts of our coast they do. They control speed and stop people. So when emphasis is placed on the police's work, I will therefore pay attention to what the police report to me as responsible for the police's efforts. The effort in the archipelago along our coast is based on an interaction between responsible citizens who do their own, non-governmental organisations and what the police have to do in addition. Police action can never replace the first elements. In recent years, I have been distributing a maritime safety prize at the safety centre at Sollerudstranda in Oslo, and how good forces play together: non-governmental organisations, the rescue company and in this context also businesses that are concerned about things going well. I want to take those considerations with me in the further work. I have previously found it necessary to propose per million limits, and I will reserve the right to come back with proposals that I consider necessary, as the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen also trusted me.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e533	Let me first refer to what Grethe Fossli said, among other things. on the meeting of the Rescue Company in the case of dubious seafarers in the summer. In that context, I think it's a little funny, to say it carefully, that the majority rely so much on awareness campaigns to change this practice. It is especially important to hear the spokesman of the Progressive Party place such emphasis on awareness campaigns - a spokesman for a law and order party who is now going to bet on awareness campaigns and some police surveillance at sea. Usually they are too strong a criminal reaction, except in traffic, where they must not be too strong, I understand from recent debates. Attitude campaigns may be important, but any experience with awareness campaigns shows that the effect is very small, especially over time. Why didn't the government parties bet on attitude campaigns, if they have such great faith in it, when it came to getting smoke-free indoors? Why did the ban have to be imposed? We can also point to other contexts where you need to use tools to achieve what you want, and as you also say in this case, you agree, but making demands to introduce, in this case, boat licenses are considered, I assume, as not popular. But all those who are affected by accidents at sea, who miss a father, a spouse, or a child, probably look at it differently. The vast majority -- for it's all a majority of the population who don't have a boat, but who, like the Minister of Justice, observe some of what's happening at sea -- wonder how it's possible to be so unwise. They might feel that it makes sense that we are demanding a boat license - as a moped driver's license to drive mopeds on land. Isn't the experience from the different stages of the Smoking Act that there's a great deal of resistance to, after a short time, getting a lot of understanding and, if not popular, then at least accepted, and something that a majority is behind? But on the basis of what has happened, among others. that the Ministry of Justice has not been heard in this matter, and in the light of the statements made by the Minister of Justice - as I have to say was marked by a greater understanding that this problem is hardly solved with awareness campaigns alone - I will re-do the proposal in the vote on a transmission proposal. I hope the Minister of Justice thinks further, and that this comes as a proposal in the stream of good proposals from the Government that will now arrive at the elections to convince the voters of who should continue to rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e548	The representative Sven Roald Hansen then addressed the proposal and turned it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e551	I just want to respond to what the representative Fossli was about: everyone who has a lot of knowledge in this area, who has not been heard. This Document No The 8 proposal has been on the agenda for several months. The only people who have made direct contact - which many others could have done, but they haven't done so - are the Norwegian Boating Schools, which do an affordable job, and which, of course, have a self-interest in their member schools. But as I said, the association is doing an important piece of work. When I listen to the debate today, there is no disagreement about the challenges we have at sea, with too many young people carrying too large boats, at too much speed. Nor, as far as I can see, is there any disagreement about the attitude-creating work, nor about the parents' responsibility and our own responsibility for acting at sea in such a way that we are not at risk to others - a responsibility for ourselves and those who are in the boat. Disunity goes on -- and then let me use a health image -- whether to vaccinate everyone when someone is sneezing. We look at this differently. The sociologists have a tendency to regulate the world, while the majority position in this case is to look further at awareness-raising work - it's tricked with knowledge, it's tricked with competence - and not least at parents' own responsibilities and police prevention. It is necessary, I think, to follow this development carefully, because the speed and number of boats at sea have increased. So I reserve the right to make an assessment after the evolution we are now seeing at sea. But so far, we believe that when someone is sneezing, it is not necessary to vaccinate everyone, and therefore not use legal regulation, but the other means we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e563	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e578	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e586	Then we go to voting on the things that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e593	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to change the calculation rate for commercial projects to 4 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01.ana.ud2045e630	During the debate Svein Roald Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Svein Roald Hansen, in his speech, has converted the proposal for a transmission proposal, and the proposal then reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for compulsory boatmaster training.’ The proposal is proposed to be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
