ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e28	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Pål Berberfjord, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e37	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e44	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I propose to ensure that pregnant women who want to do so, by means of maternity wards/health companies, will be able to have blood from the umbilical cord drained, frozen and stored in a quality-proof manner, with a view to the possible future use of stem cells in the treatment of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e49	The representative of Mr Øystein Djupedal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e52	On behalf of the representative Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to set up a solidarity fund of DKK 10 billion to deal with humanitarian disasters.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e57	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e81	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Odd Einar Dørum The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e97	I have a question for the Prime Minister, a question about the economic situation of a large state enterprise, about the situation in our hospitals. The starting point is that during the budget procedure last autumn we had a discussion about how much money the hospitals needed. The Labour Party believes that it is possible to introduce and implement conversion measures and saving measures in hospitals, but we believe that the Government is exaggerating the possibilities of saving money. Therefore, the Government and the Advance Party have underfunded the hospitals for 2005. We now have this image confirmed by many announcements about plans to reduce and shut down emergency services, which will weaken the provision of health services in many communities. There are uncertainties and concerns in hospitals and in all those who are dependent on hospitals. My question is whether the Prime Minister now sees that the Progress Party and the government parties have given too little money to the hospitals last autumn, and if you now want to open up something to do with it, so that hospitals can get a safer and better economy than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e104	We always tend to come back to the economic situation, including for health businesses, in the revised national budget. The description expressed by the representative Stoltenberg has very often been present. Either Stoltenberg himself ruled or made budgetary settlements with the Cooperation Government, it was the same announcements and designations as he now expressed, at the same time. Regional health enterprises will receive about DKK 65 billion in 2005. To this end, they must provide quality treatment for all. During this government period, the appropriations allocated to health care businesses have actually grown by around NOK 4.5 billion. We still have problems, we're still missing, but there's been a lot of positive, not least in terms of waiting time for those in line, who are now in fact more than halved, from 200 days in the third tertiary in 2001 to less than 100 days in the third tertiary in 2004. The total number of people who have been waiting for more than one year has also fallen by close to 85pst from the first quarter of 2002. This is part of the overall picture. Patients receive more treatment. More people get treatment. The 2004 United Nations Development Report has also established that the Norwegian health system is the best in the world. That doesn't mean we don't have any problems. The working party itself has been involved in a migration target for health businesses, in order to balance them at the end of 2005, except for Health South, which has been in a special situation and is given a little more time. But of course, we always come back to an assessment of the situation, as usual, in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e113	All parties at Stortinget believe that it is possible to carry out health care transformations, and we also believe that the hospital reform has provided better use of resources in the hospital system. At the same time, we believe that it is impossible to demand that hospitals cover the entire deficit they have had from previous years, in 2005. We therefore believe that this is underfinancing in 2005. We believe that both the Advance Party and the government parties are responsible for the uncertainty that is now in the hospitals, and it will be a clear advantage if it was made clear as early as possible from the Government and from the majority of the Stortinget that one was actually willing to do something about it, so that the hospitals did not live in the kind of uncertainty they are currently doing. It is true that there have been problems in hospitals in the past, but in previous years hospitals have been able to cope with deficits. Now the Storting has ordered them to balance, and therefore the savings requirements are becoming more brutal, more absolute. This is why it is important to provide both predictability and the necessary funding, and therefore I am also concerned that the government signals as early as possible that it is willing to do something about the hospital economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e120	I understand that the representative Stoltenberg is concerned about pushing away from himself the responsibility for what is happening in the hospital sector, a reform he otherwise himself promoted and excited very strongly about, and like other of us here in the hall at the time. We have previously pushed on the balance sheet requirement, and I think one should be careful to keep pushing on the balance sheet requirement, because it is important that health care establishments gradually come on a financial balance sheet. There has also been a significant increase in the 2005 budget, and we have thought that it is possible to balance with the budget we agreed on here before Christmas. We always tend to come back to revision with an assessment of the situation, but the Prime Minister does not stand and give money over the Stortings pulpit in a spontaneous question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e125	There will be four follow-up questions – first Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e128	Yes, as the Prime Minister said, there has always been too little money in hospitals. But the hospitals are now in a new situation, which he also had in mind in his answer. The situation is such that a balance between income and expenditure is required, and deficits can then only be settled by cut. Therefore, it is imperative that there is not deliberately too little money, as the Government actually does, and as Stoltenberg said. Nor has the government been willing to propose appropriations for new buildings and equipment that preserve current values, and this also goes beyond operations. The consequences of this are not least seen in our own state, sir. Prime Minister, where the Molde hospital is ready for fall and does not receive necessary renewal. Does the Prime Minister worry that equipment and buildings, not only in our own country, are due because of lack of funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e133	The President will assume that with "our own state" it will be addressed to More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e137	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e142	It probably does, and I know the hospital there pretty well. It is clear that in several hospitals, our own county included, it would have been desirable with even more money. However, health businesses have plans for further development both in this health region and in other health regions, and there is no doubt that we have had a sharp increase in the appropriations of health businesses during this ageing period, actually on average over DKK 1 billion per year. years, through a reform for which the Workers' Party has been very keen. That's not what Asmund Kristoffersen now said, that we deliberately grant too little money – that's what he used. Of course, the government and the majority of the population have not. We have granted the money we thought was good for balance, except for Health South, during 2005. There will always be an almost insatiable need in this area. We always come back to revision with an assessment of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e149	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e152	De Factore has completed the investigation mission on the hospital reform of the Trade Union, and the final result is now presented in the report ‘Low money — Too little democracy, status in the hospital reform January 2005’. In its comments on the report, the Trade Union has made an important premise that ‘the hospital reform needs to be evaluated and no new market-stimulating measures are launched until a thorough evaluation has been carried out’. When the hospital reform was debated at the main hall on 6 June 2001, then opposition politicians Bondevik said among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘I believe, however, in this case today that we are wise to have a thorough review and an evaluation of the experience and results of the new ownership and the new organisational model after some time. No one can be afraid of that.’ Bondevik fixed it at the time until 2004, but some review and evaluation have not yet been carried out. Will the Prime Minister now contribute to a thorough evaluation, not least in terms of the economic situation and market adaptation of the health system in the implementation of the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e164	Yes, it would be natural to evaluate how this has worked, and I would also believe that there could be a debate on the ownership and governance of health businesses in the context of the debate we will have on the levels of government. It is no secret that in my time I was opposed to this reform. It was adopted by the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right, who strongly advocated it. We had to manage this reform as best we could, primarily for the benefit of patients, when we took over the government responsibility, first with the central government and later with the co-operation government. There is no doubt that for many patients there has been a clearly better situation in terms of reduced waiting time and partly reduced queues. But we have some challenges. There will now be close contact between the Ministry of Health and businesses to address the challenges we face, and an evaluation will come in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e169	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e172	Hospitals are struggling with the economy, and a disassembly of local hospitals is forced because, in a narrow hospital perspective, it is believed that you can save money by cutting down the services that are closest to people. The socio-economic perspective seems to have been completely lost, and people are not being listened to. But one also struggles with the coordination of hospitals, among other things. in Oslo, and the health minister's prescription to sort this out is that Health East and Health South should be merged, i.e. 10 counties should be included in the same health region, i.e. well and well half of the counties of the country in the same health region. My question is whether the Prime Minister can confirm that this is an organisation he supports, and whether he believes that this will remedy what is the greatest weakness in the hospital today, namely that the offerings to people in the districts disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e181	In the budget proposal, the Government has outlined a strategy for local hospitals. It is decided that local hospitals will continue to play a central role in the specialist health service and with new tasks in line with changes in the needs of the population. But we also know that medical development is moving towards more specialisation. So if a patient is to receive the best possible treatment, it is necessary to pool some functions to ensure the necessary competence. There is also a need for a reconversion of local hospitals, but often in order to preserve them for the future, not to put them down, and to provide greater security for patients. The current structure of local hospitals is assumed to be maintained, but there must be transparency in relation to changes in hospital tasks, including changes in emergency preparedness. As regards proposals for the aggregation of the two health regions mentioned above, the Government has not taken that position. We have a problem in Oslo, where the distinction between these regions goes across the city and distinguishes hospitals where better coordination would have been useful. There's another way to think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e190	Carl I. Hagen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e193	It's interesting to notice the points of view from several here. Both the government parties, the SV and the Workers' Party have voted in favour of the Progress Party's proposal to reorganise the debt that regional health companies have, by NOK 2 billion, which would of course have helped with the situation. However, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question as to whether the country's overall economic situation makes any impression on the Prime Minister. As far as we can see in the newspapers, the oil fund is now growing by billions more than estimated. The income of the Norwegian state is growing, and we have no money problems. Is this the moment that the Prime Minister wants to take with him when he, among other things, also assesses the hospital economy? When the country's and state's economy is actually better than expected, it would be incomprehensible for most people if you don't get necessary health care from hospitals due to lack of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e200	Firstly, I have to remind Carl I. Hagen that he has been in favour of the budget for health businesses that is now in force. I expect Hagen to stand by what he has done, and is a credible partner in this way. The country's economic situation is getting good. This is also due to the fact that this government has led a steady economic policy, where we have had to keep up some expenditure requirements in order to get a budget that helped to lower interest rates and exchange rates. This means that there is now a new optimism on the way back to business. Employment is increasing — it has probably increased by about 10 %. 20 000 in the last year — and unemployment is falling. Now we must not prelude this development. That means that we must continue with a responsible economic policy. I also have expectations that the parties to the income statement will deliver a moderate and responsible income statement in ours. Then this positive development can continue. Revenue from the oil fund is also increasing in such a situation, and it could benefit both health and other good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e210	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e213	I can then be allowed to follow-up. I can assure the Prime Minister that the Progress Party is a credible partner. I hope we can expect the same of the government parties in connection with keeping the agreed defence budget for this year and not making any changes there due to other circumstances. In our agreement with the government parties on the budget for this year, there are several points relating to the hospital economy. First of all, we've got input-based funding up to 60 pst. again. It strengthens the hospitals. But we have our own passport in our agreement that in the context of the revised national budget, the government parties and the government have committed themselves to coming back with their views on the study on the total funding of hospitals, and that we are going to review the economy of hospitals based on the information. It's our attitude, and it's been our attitude the whole time, that we won't accept the dismissal of doctors, nurses and the cancellation of capacity due to the lack of money. Is that a principle the Prime Minister agrees with?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e220	Of course, we are at what we agreed in the budget position, namely that we should come back to the assessment of the hospitals' economy in the revised national budget. I answered that already after the first question from the representative Stoltenberg. So we're also at that part of the deal. We want the best possible health care for everyone. There are still gaps, but it must not be overshadowed that we have had clear improvements in health services, both within somatic areas and within psychiatry. There has never been as much money as now. There has never been such a sharp increase as now in the appropriations. Wait time's dropping. More people today receive treatment in the psychiatric sector than ever before, but we still have a lack of treatment there. We have a significant escalation in psychiatry, and, as the Minister of Health knows, the guide to health companies has made it clear that one should have a particularly strong increase in resource use and in the supply of psychiatry and care. We want to make a good health service even better, and we have new opportunities to discuss this in the revised national budget. When it comes to the specific question that Hagen asked about medical positions, etc., we get back to it in that regard. I don't want to take such questions over the pulpit now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e229	The question concerned a principle as to whether it should be such that hospitals cancel doctors, nurses and other staff in a situation where patients are waiting for treatment. In other words, you have a customer stock, an order reserve, but lack money to pay wages. We have the principle in the Progress Party that we will not accept that lack of money is the reason for reducing health capacity. When the Prime Minister asked if we were a credible partner, and pointed out that we had voted in favour of the budget, he may think it was the final budget for 2005 we voted in favour, but we have a passport to review the entire economy of hospitals and health businesses in revised form. That is why we could vote in favour of an overall package. We've always been attuned to this principle. I would like to repeat the question: does the Prime Minister share the principle that there should not be a lack of money that is the reason for cancelling doctors, nurses or other staff, as long as patients are waiting for treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e238	I am fully aware of the passport to come back to this in the revised national budget. I have now assured you several times that we will. Now the revision of the budget shall be an audit. This is not a completely new budgetary procedure. But things that must have appeared in the meantime, new information, could of course be adjusted for in a revised national budget. There are restructurings in the Norwegian hospital system, and I think that is also true. Applying such a rigid principle as Carl I. Hagen is now asking about, for the record, can also prevent the necessary changes and division of tasks between hospitals. That's why I can't go straight to this rigidity that Carl I. Hagen now prescribes. But we have the opportunity to come back to this in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e249	There will be four follow-up questions – first John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e252	I am a little surprised at the Labour Party, which is so dissatisfied with the budgetary agreement with the Advance Party this time. What did the Workers' Party do last year? The situation was just as bad then. My question to the Prime Minister is based on the fact that one of our most competent hospital directors, namely Åge Danielsen at the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital, has gone out and announced that he must cut 1000 posts at his two hospitals if the budget is not increased for our national hospital. This will not only result in patients not being treated at a high professional level, but it will also reduce the competence of this national overall hospital. Will the Prime Minister and the Government accept such a development this year at our only national hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e261	The Ministry of Health is in close dialogue with health businesses, including the health business covering those hospitals, in order to review the situation. We'll be able to explain it in more detail. Of course, we will not accept a reduction in our central hospitals, which also have functions for the whole country, and which are very important for the competence. But now we must first be allowed to go through the material, see what lies behind the advertised problems, and see how they can be solved, inside or outside the healthcare companies' own economy. Health companies have been given autonomous management responsibility for the hospitals within their region. We must have the opportunity to go further into the seams before I can start to give money over the Stortings pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e268	Jens Stoltenberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e271	I fully agree with former Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbräten, who has said on several occasions that the hospital reform has helped to bring down the waiting lists, that we have reduced waiting times, that we are treating more patients than ever, and that we are getting more health for each krone in the healthcare system. It is a little unclear to me whether the Prime Minister agrees with Dagfinn Højbräten, or whether we now see that there are two different views within the Christian People's Party on how the health reform has worked. It is essential that any reform, any health system, should be financed. The problem now is that for the first time an absolute demand is made for hospitals to go zero dollars in deficit, and then the problem of spending greater than income is significantly more serious than in previous years. We have proposed savings, but we believe that the savings made by the Government and the Advance Party together are far too large, and therefore there will be unacceptable cuts in the Norwegian hospital system for months to come. It is okay to say that you should wait for the revised national budget, but it is allowed to notify even before there is more money. The party of progress and the government parties now have a very serious responsibility for the problems at the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e280	No, there is no difference between the Prime Minister and the former Minister of Health for current reform. We've had a reduced waiting time, and we've been treated for more patients. The extent to which it is linked to the reform or to increased appropriations, which one could of course also have had under another system, is difficult to say. We were given the task of managing this reform, which Stoltenberg proposed and was adopted. That means it didn't exist under the central government, which I was going to say in a previous answer. That was also the Minister of Health – that was what caused the confusion. But the reform came between the central government and the co-operation government, and the Høybräten, who was Minister of Health in the first year of the Co-operation Government, started to manage it as well as possible. I believe that both he and Gabrielsen, who have taken over, have done it in a good way. I have always noticed that when the Workers' Party is in opposition, they believe that the savings are too large, and when they are in government, they are perfectly fit. So this I'm going to write a little bit in that account. But we're going to go through this in the revised national budget, as Stoltenberg himself used to do when he was Minister of Finance and Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e292	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e295	One reason the hospitals are struggling with the economy may be that the balance sheet requirement should be met in 2005, as the Progress Party has supported the Government in the 2005 budgetary procedure. Otherwise, we see that the deficits that occur in the hospital sector occur within areas that the Storting initially has not prioritised, much based on the fact that the input-funded part is as high as 60 pst, and that you get activity in some areas completely beyond what the Storing has foreseen. In this way, deficits arise that affect businesses that the Storting has actually prioritised. In particular, there is the Psychiatric reform, but also the treatment of drug addicts. Does the Prime Minister find it unfortunate that the funding of hospitals has as high an effort-based share as 60 p.m., and that therefore there are unfortunate distortions as a consequence, so that groups that were to be given priority are not?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e304	The establishment of the 60% was the result of a budgetary settlement, and of course we stand by that. In the past, we have suggested a slightly lower ISF share to be sure that there are no mishaps. Therefore, in the 2005 Regional Health Companies Order Document, we have emphasised that the ISF system should not guide the priorities of which patients are to be offered treatment. It is clarified that resource use and efforts should be in line with health policy objectives and priorities. As I mentioned earlier, we have given particular attention to the importance of an even stronger growth in psychiatry and drug care. When the year is over, we'll see how it has worked with an ISF share of 60 pst. There is nothing wrong with that, for example. daily surgery increases and many patients are treated in a short period of time, but it is important that it does not lead to distortions, so that priority offers are in practice lowered.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e309	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e312	The centre party has been – and is – concerned about the hospital economy and the quality of health care in this country. We have proposed increased operating resources, and we have also proposed reorganization of debt, which we have remained alone here in the Chamber. The progress party has not supported us on it, so what Carl I. Hagen said was wrong. Otherwise, it's interesting to notice how market thinking comes in. The lead party spoke of ‘customer mass’ and ‘order reserve’. For me and the Center Party, the customer masses are people and the order server waiting lists, and then it's important to know what the Prime Minister thinks is the best medicine to get the best health policy possible. Isn't it the best medicine to increase the framework funds rather than increase the price? So to this with the balance sheet requirement in 2005, which we're now in. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the status records and the depreciation rules for health businesses, and does he believe that this is a proper model to build on when it is now required to have a budgetary balance sheet already this year? In my opinion, what has happened to balance sheets is scandalous.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e321	Then it's up to the Prime Minister to prescribe the right medicine to the health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e324	Thank you, President! At least I agree with Joy that this is about people, about the situation of sick people. There are many who have received a better offer, but there are still many who have not received the offer they should receive. As a result, the appropriations allocated to health care will certainly increase in the years to come, just as there has been a sharp increase during this government. There has been a discussion about the ISF share of the total allocation. It has varied as far as I remember from 40 pst. and up to 60 pst. Now it's 60 pst. We'll see how it works now, but at least we've taken action so that it doesn't lead to a biased priority. Regarding the issue of depreciation rules and balance sheet status, I ask for understanding that I cannot address the relatively detailed questions now. I know that the Minister of Health is in dialogue with health businesses about this, and of course it will come under the evaluation of the reform, as the Government has announced it will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e335	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e338	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. It's not just in health companies and hospitals there's trouble with the economy by day, it's not least in defense, where you're struggling with big financial problems. Back to 2001 and 2002, there have been difficulties. For 2003, we have a budget that has not been approved, and in 2004 we have a billion coins that are now being dealt with by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee here in the United Kingdom. I am not going to run and process the matter that is being dealt with in Stortinget, because it is a matter that is being dealt with in the very most serious way. But there is reason to question some of the debatability that has been of the defence problems, and that is why I am interested in hearing the Prime Minister's view on this. In the oral question procedure on 20 October, Foss replied to a question: ‘There has never been better economic governance in Defence than under this Council of States’, i.e. under the Council of State of Krohn Devold. This opinion is in a rather strange light today, and it would have been interesting to hear the Prime Minister assess this opinion and the opinions of other government members on the defence economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e349	Firstly, I would like to stress that the Government is looking seriously at the large budget line that has been in the 2004 defence budget. The government then deals with the matter – with great seriousness – and we have announced that we will bring a case to the Stortinget about the exceedances in 2004. The 2003 budget did not have an exceedance, but was not approved by the National Audit Office for other reasons – mainly due to misposting, which may also have had something to do with the introduction of a new accounting system, which was demanding. As a background to this case, let me also stress that the defence is in the midst of a comprehensive conversion that is very demanding, and I do not think it is possible to implement it without friction. In this way I can also refer to what former Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal wrote in St.prp. No 45 for 2000–2001: ‘The defence is in a deep and sustained structural crisis’. The overall lead is that the defence migration targets are to be maintained and implemented in 2005, and there is reason to believe that these targets are being met. The Minister of Defence is prepared to provide as much information as possible, in writing and orally, as well as in a new hearing, where she would like to set up. It is true that, after the 2004 budget has been exceeded, we cannot say that governance has never been better. But this was something the Minister of Defense didn't know until after Christmas. There is no reason – with the overview we have – to believe otherwise. This will give Stortinget a good opportunity to go closer. However, measures have been taken to improve financial management in the defence sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e362	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. This statement from Per-Kristian Foss seems a bit curous with the knowledge we have today. But there is reason to believe that the defense is still unable to deal with the errors and deficiencies of their computer systems. In today's newspaper this is confirmed by the general inspector of the Army, Lars J. Silverberg, who says the exact same thing: ‘The data we get now is as crazy as in 2004. In January we registered a number of errors." That means that this whole computer system, Golf, which has been introduced and which has created many problems, should have been reviewed, something SV and the Progress Party also suggested at some point. But that's not the main point. The main point is whether the Prime Minister can guarantee that the problem currently facing the defence will be cleared up, so that this situation as described here by Silverberg will not take place in 2005 and that the Stortinget will be able to obtain approval from the Defence for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e375	What I can at least guarantee is that the Government takes this seriously and implements measures that we hope will contribute to better financial management in all parts of the Defence. Now there is a need to draw attention to the fact that maritime defence, air defence and home security have kept their budgets for 2004. It's not least impressive for the Home Guard, which in recent years has undergone a massive transformation. It broke in the logistics organization and the Army. There's something the government looks at seriously, and we'll explain it to the Storing. The commander himself said at a press conference yesterday: I have had a picture of the reality that was not true. I thought we were heading toward zero, so balance. That's what the General Inspector of the Army also believed. It was also the information the Minister of Defence received as late as December 21. Then it turns out over New Year that this was not the case for the Army and the logistics organisation. We're doing what we can to avoid such situations for the afterlife.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e384	There will be four follow-up questions – first Siri Hall Arnøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e387	I hear the Prime Minister says that the Home Secretary, the Naval Defence and the Air Force have kept their budgets, and we are, of course, pleased about that. When the Prime Minister points out that the Government is seriously looking at what has happened, and wants to clean up, I could imagine asking the Prime Minister where he is putting the list. How much order does it take for it to be good enough? It's okay that you keep the budgets in three out of four branches, and it's okay that we've heard in this room on a number of occasions that you take a serious look at what's happening. But time and time again, you see “serious” that there is still a mess in the defense, you say you clean up – and then you come back here, and we see that it is not right. Where will the Prime Minister put the government list in relation to cleaning up the defense, and what can we expect to see in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e392	The starting point and assumption is that budgets are to be kept, both within the individual level and in the defence as a whole. Obviously, that's where we put the list. Now, a lot of previous accounts will also see that one has sometimes not come out exactly on the crown – if that's what Siri Hall Arnøy asked me to put on the list. But this exceedance in 2004 is, of course, serious and unacceptable. We take the consequences of that, and it has its consequences. The Government will also take further action to improve budgetary management. Now there is a report, which was ordered by the Army itself and delivered to the Army, with explanations of the exceedance that occurred there, and which was a very large proportion of the total exceedance. The commander himself said that he thought he was heading towards zero, and was therefore also surprised that there was such a gigantic crack. But the starting point is that budgets are to be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e401	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e406	This is not just about the budgets of the various sectors of defence. It's about the whole conversion process in Defense. What happens and is going to happen in the future of the Defence Logistics Organisation will not least be important in that context. The review report now presented by the Army shows that there is a large degree of implementation of the transition, which is a problem. There's too much happening too fast within the defense. There are several of the parties here in the house that have warned against. We have said that things happen so quickly that unnecessary new costs are incurred along the way. We have said that jobs are removed before the tasks have been removed, and that this must lead to costly consulting and overtime work. In many cases, consolidation of the migration process is needed before moving on. A pause and an independent review of the entire conversion process is needed. The question is whether the Government will now take seriously the type of warnings that the Army's investigation committee comes with and review the entire conversion process with a view to correcting the error.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e417	I agree with the representative Arnstad that it is a demanding process of conversion, and we have never concealed that. The objectives of this migration process have been joined by the bulk of population. The Minister of Defence did not have information that suggested that they could not be reached within the adopted budgets, at the time before Christmas. This is being reviewed. The Chief of Defence has delivered a report of 15 February, in which all arms have recorded their views, leading to the Chief of Defense's report. To the sample report that has now come from a sample set up by the Army and delivered to the Army: If the commander believes that it causes new information from him to the head of defence, we expect him to initiate it. The Chief of Defense will then give his comment to the Minister of Defense. We do not have the basis today to say that we are now going to stop the conversion process. We think it can be implemented as foreseen during 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e424	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e427	The Prime Minister said in one of his answers that the Minister of Defence was ready to come and answer questions, and that was nice. He also said that he wanted openness. I want to ask the Prime Minister a question about something he has always been very concerned about, namely that any government has obligations to comply with the disclosure obligation to Stortinget. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, for the sake of this matter as well, whether he will personally consider very carefully – as regards the new information that came to the Department in November 2003, while the Defence Committee set up and dealt with the 2004 Defence Budget – whether it would not be natural, under strict legislation, that information from the external office, the Defence Staff, to the Department, had been communicated to the Committee, so that the Committee had the latest information from the external office. It would be normal in other budgetary contexts that if there are any views of great importance from the external level, it should be communicated to the Stortinget. Will the Prime Minister assure him that he will evaluate this very carefully?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e434	We consider all aspects of this matter very carefully, and not least that relating to the obligation to provide information. It is a fundamental principle in the relationship between government and greatness, to which the Prime Minister himself attaches great importance. With the information and the overview I now have, I have no reason to say that it has not been complied with. The Minister of Defence will be able to come back to this point and to respond fully to questions raised in the advertised hearing on Friday. As regards the letter of November 2003, there was a discussion on downtime — how to calculate downtime in order to carry out the conversion during 2005. This was, in fact, an agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Directorate, and it has been stated by the Chief of Defence Sigurd Frisvold in a letter sent to the Committee of Inquiry this Monday, two days ago, explaining that, on the basis of this letter from November, they have reached an agreement and that the programme of conversion has been laid down further.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e441	Marit Nybakk – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e445	The Workers' Party and the Government's parties have agreed on the important and necessary conversion in the Defence. However, there is no excuse for economic root causes, for lack of accounting competence, for not approving the annual accounts – we are talking about NOK 30 billion – for lack of governance, lack of audit control and for uncontrolled use of consultants, just to mention some factors. We've had other states that have had big shifts, without the entire financial management going overboard. Does the Prime Minister agree with Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss, who said in an earlier Question Time that financial management has never been better than under the current Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e452	Now I have answered that question, which was asked by a previous questioner. In the light of what has emerged with regard to the budget excesses in the logistical organisation and in the army, it is clear that budgetary management in these sectors is not as it should have been. On the other hand, it seems to have been satisfactory in the others. It also includes, so that you don't talk about the defense here in general. Otherwise, I agree that even though we have agreed – the parties among them – in the Storting on the objectives of the restructuring of the defence, there is of course no excuse for large budget exceedances and lack of control in this way within the branches of the defence. That's why the government takes this seriously. Then I now think that the committees involved and the Stortinget will work to find out where the failure has been. I'm dealing with the Minister of Defense and I think she's given information based on what she knew, at least with the overview we're sitting with today. Then you get to ask about this in the hearing and in other ways in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e459	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e462	I have a question for the Minister of Justice – it is important to ensure full employment. In the last two years, warning lights have been lit up too fully in connection with highly suspicious network sales activities in Norway and so-called pyramids. This type of network activity and pyramids largely conceal a large black economy and also contribute to other types of crime. It may also appear to be a great place for money laundering. In these days, we experience that Finland is helping to prosecute the Nordics involved in known pyramids. This includes, inter alia: the background to the last year's Workers' Party's call for an extended ban in relation to this type of activity, as well as registration and also obligation to compensate and increased police action. What is the reason why such an important work is waiting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e473	First of all, let me say that the representative of Storberget addresses is affordable and good. It is related to his excellent interpellation from a week and a half ago on the fight against black economy and money laundering. It is important to note that the law belongs to the Minister of Culture and the Church, and she has said that, without waiting for the international directive, she will strengthen the law to combat pyramidal games and all that is involved in this. I would like to add that in connection with a matter which I have, namely the reform of disputes, there will also be a strengthening of the possibility for the public to go after those who are in the business. In general, the Government, through its action plan against financial crime, cooperation between police and tax authorities, and through the strengthening of tax auditors, reinforces any efforts against economic crime and against money laundering. And exactly what the representative Storberget here takes up, belongs to the speculative and very unsympathetic features of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e482	I thank you for your answer. This is a description of the issue and, in the view of the Workers' Party, neither an active Eva Joly nor action plans in relation to this type of crime. There is reason to be concerned when we know that two years ago, Ecokrim received money laundering messages worth over 150 million. kr in Norway, without lifting a finger. This suggests that in Norway there is a higher risk of being discovered by stealing 7-Eleven chocolate than by money laundering through established financial institutions, 150 million. kr. So what's really the question then is: is the government now willing to increase its efforts in relation to this type of money laundering problem, and also take hold of these pyramids, so that we get a satisfactory piece of legislation like, among other things. Will there actually be a ban on several establishments of this kind — and can more active action be taken than what is actually being done today? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e489	The representative of Storberget addressed this question in an excellent interview on 17 February. I notice that the tone has become somewhat sharper over a week and a half, but the content of the opinion has not changed. At that time, there was broad consensus in the Stortinget, and the representative of Storberget was pleased with that consensus, namely on how to put forward the Government's action plan against economic crime, how to get more money laundering messages. I indicated that Ecocrim has been strengthened in its budget, including: on the money laundering page, and I asked for a status report per 1 March this year – that was yesterday – just to make sure we keep the pressure on it. I made it clear that pressure will be held, but pressure requires more than police action – it requires efforts from tax authorities. I commend the tax auditors as everyday heroes, who are not praised enough, and the Minister of Culture has said that she will sharpen the necessary legislation. So there's a pretty broad effort going on here, and from the government's side, all measures against organized crime are also strongly driven forward, and fortunately with broad support in the UK.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e496	There will be three follow-up questions – first Gunn Karin Gjul.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e499	I'm glad that the Council of State takes this kind of crime so seriously, because it's important that we get to prosecute those who trick people into the pyramid game, and who trick them into hundreds of thousands of dollars. Therefore, it is important that we get a law, but it is also important that the police have both the capacity and not least the competence to do the job that comes after. We know that the number of ecocrims being investigated is now very low. Under 2 pst. reports received by the police are related to Ecocrim. Actually, what we see is that the number goes down. We know that Ecokrim is also struggling with old equipment and low manning. I want to challenge the Council of State, so that we also hear about measures, not just plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e506	Now some important measures were put in place in the budget agreement for the current year in an agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party which significantly strengthened the efforts of the police. The working party invested less money on it. You preferred to bet on criminal custody. That is a fair and honest priority. But in the interpellation debate on 17 February, there was a broad consensus in the Stortingen on both strengthening the police side, strengthening the tax side and strengthening the cooperation side and – I repeat – also the law that belongs to other government councils, for this is seen by the Government as a whole. The representative of Storberget, who is no longer here, said that the Eva Joly project no longer lasts. But it is very important to be a pioneer, especially when it comes to mobilising cultural construction and ensuring that culture is working together. You can't command culture. It must be created. The fact that we have some traveling emissaries who make sure people shake off, I thought I was going to get excited in the main hall! And especially traveling emissaries against crime, I thought at least I would arouse enthusiasm in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e513	Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e517	Unfortunately, there is no reason to be particularly excited about the government's efforts in the pyramid game. What we are seeing now is that Finland is able to fight the World Games, while Norway is not able to do so. It is simply because for years the government has been involved in putting in place a law, and has opened the country to pyramidal games. It is more difficult in other countries to have stricter laws. Now there's to be a law. We're going to hope that it'll be strict enough to, for example, can hit the World Games. But what we know is that a good law doesn't help if you don't have the resources to follow up the money laundering messages like that. comes in connection with the pyramid game. We saw that in the T5PC case last year that Økokrim didn't have. The finance committee held a seminar last week in which it was said quite clearly from the money laundering unit that they have too few jobs. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice specifically whether he can guarantee that there will be money and clear leadership that will give you more jobs in the Money Laundering Unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e526	As far as the money laundering unit is concerned, it was particularly strengthened in the budget last year, because it was necessary to do something. Because I am concerned about this issue in general, even before we got the pyramid game debate – which is quite justified that we have – I asked for a status message from Økokrim, in general, but also for the money laundering side. I explained that on February 17. I haven't changed my mind about that. The Directorate of Police has the resources to be allocated. I will, of course, follow up according to the Government's action plan against financial crime, and money laundering is part of it. I want to do what I can to ensure that you can do the job you want to do with equipment and in other ways. I also said on 17 February that Ecokrim received messages, including: in accordance with the legislation on money laundering, which they can preserve. Although they do not use each message to go into the cases, they can take them back later and pursue them. But I would like to repeat: it requires more than police action. It also requires cooperation with legitimate citizens who dare say so. It requires cooperation with tax authorities and with tax auditors. It simply requires cultural mobilisation. The Minister for Culture has said that she wants to tighten up the law that is also behind the representative's questions. That, I think, is an important mark on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e535	Jan Arild Ellingsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e538	It is always interesting to listen to the Council of States when he explains his ability to act. But it is well that it is a challenge for all of us here to have a law that suits each of us, not least when it comes to what we want to fight. In that case, I think it might be difficult to achieve the optimal. The goal must still be there. I believe that through the budgetary agreement and the strengthening of the police, it will facilitate a more active fight against crime. At the same time, there is a paradox in this system. If we get more people taking care of this kind of thing and being judged, we have a big problem, because we see that the reconciliation queue is once again increasing, while the majority in the United Kingdom has granted a new special discount in relation to getting out earlier, regardless of the type of crime. The higher the punishment, the sooner you get out again. I could imagine challenging the Council of States if we could soon expect some concrete actions in relation to, for example, the new prison that has been discussing building in Halden for a long time and possibly a new prison in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e547	This follow-up question is probably a little loosely related to the main question, but the Council of State would like to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e550	I am not a minister of church and culture, but because I am a member of the government, I still chose to try to answer for the whole. Then I'm going to be equally shy at this point too, even if it's not related to the main question. If I'm allowed to answer now, I will. We have an excellent budgetary settlement with the Progress Party. After work on the Judicial Committee, it was found that, fortunately, one would go beyond what was done in the Financial Committee. Thus, the capacity for reconciliation has been strengthened in the current year. I think that was very correct. I think there were also very important signals in the budget agreement that we should look at the measures that are not immediately created, namely the plans for a prison both in Salten and in Halden. There are plans that the Government is working on. The government's line can be briefly expressed as follows: We control the pay queue by continuing a systematic work by providing places both in the short and long term. Let me say the following: In the short term, until now, for a relatively cheap money I have provided more prison sites than in the planned prison in Halden, but there is no compensation, neither for a prison in Halden nor for a prison in Salten.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e557	We've come to today's very last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e560	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Now it is not about money laundering or defence, but about natural resources as an important basis for the creation of value in Norway. Through different schemes, we have secured the natural resources. We've secured oil and gas and hydropower. The question is, what happens now to our third large natural resource, namely fishing resources? This is where major structural changes occur almost without political debate. The government has already structured the coastal fleet, with centralisation, poor recruitment and costly quotas as a result. An example of this: in 1999, 50 pst. of the fish in Norway taken from 260 vessels. Today take 50 pst. by the fish of 160 vessels. Now the government will structure the ocean fishing fleet. Allowances shall be collected on fewer vessels without delimitation in time, i.e. the introduction of permanent allowances and at the same time negotiable allowances. Does the Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party believe that this is good management of fishing resources? And what visions does the Government have for the management of this natural resource?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e569	I'm going to come back to the question of eternal quotas, because I don't think that's right. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Fisheries, in a note of consultation on 26 November, sent a proposal for the introduction of a structural quota system for the sea fishing fleet, based on already established unit quota schemes for the fleet, but the predetermined time limit has been removed. It is currently available to purchase a fishing vessel and to be authorised by the fishing authorities to operate it on the quota basis of the vessel. The additional quota that can be obtained through the structural quota system is in principle in the same position as the base quota of the vessel. No question mark is put at the time of its duration. Larger coastal fleet vessels already have a structural quota system without a time limit. The size has addressed this, and the majority have joined the proposal. Now it is presented as if the large ones are to have more than the small ones eternal rights to resources. They won't, and neither do they. It is presented as if the large ones have different ownership of the rights than the small ones. Neither do they. The right to fish applies only as long as it meets the requirements of society to own a ship and to fish professionally, and for all groups of vessels – large and small. Allowances shall be allocated for one year at a time under the overall quota and under the rules of the Seawater Fishing Act. As is well known, the allowances for each vessel are also affected by different elements such as distribution between groups, distribution keys within the groups and the number of vessels within the groups. Concession arrangements and access restrictions have given a significant value to the actual right to fish as a result of the restriction of access. The fact that this happens and that one can increase the vessel's quota base through the structural quota system does not mean that one has acquired any private ownership of a certain quota share. No rights have been made for private property, nor have any been granted eternal ownership of a single kilo of fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e576	The large picture after the structuring of the coastal fleet is increased centralisation, fewer participants, more difficult recruitment and expensive quotas. And when the time limit is now to be removed in relation to the allowances in the marine fleet, I can't interpret it in any other way than creating eternal allowances, or allowances without a time limit. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the proliferation and government of a very important instrument related to the allocation of resources within the fisheries policy will then be excluded. The question is: does not the Prime Minister have any concerns about what is now going on, and does he really believe that this should happen without the Enlargement being able to discuss the changes in the fisheries policy on a broad basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e581	The question of treatment in Stortinget we can come back to if it is a wish. With regard to possible concerns, we will now consider this in the light of the consultation opinions. The hearing period was 1 February and the hearing opinions are now under assessment in the Ministry. No decision has therefore been taken as to whether these amendments should be implemented. We're listening to objections that have to come, including those of the Center Party. What has been a part of the background to the changes that have taken place with regard to the quota arrangements in recent years, both in the coastal fishing fleet and in the sea fishing fleet, is having an economically sustainable fleet, that we simply get a profitable fishing and that those who have their livelihoods in the fisheries should have a good income in line with others in society. It's been the base itself, and it's done that there's been a smaller number of participants, that's quite right. But then we also have a more economically sustainable fleet, for the benefit of many coastal communities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e591	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e597	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Culture and the Church, is answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Culture and the Church, who has been away. Questions 10 and 11 from the representatives of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and John I. Alvheim, respectively, to the Minister of Health and Care, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for the Environment, is answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e614	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs: «Sustainers who receive temporary unpaid pay may lose up to NOK 19 000 per year per year. children with a background in a much lower child supplement than recipients of disability benefits. Prime Minister Bondevik told the Evening Post on 6 August 2004 that this is the outcome of the frail reform, which makes it possible to review it again. In view of this, will the Council of State make proposals to the Storting to amend the child supplement of the temporary unemployment scheme?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e623	By introducing a new, time-limited non-implementation fee in 2004, the Government wanted to signal that misappropriation should not always be of a lasting nature. The aim is that as many of the beneficiaries as possible return to work full-time or part-time or increase the workload in the existing part-time job. This is the background to the calculation of time-limited unpaid pay in accordance with the same rules as the rehabilitation allowance and the refund. Recipients of such short-term benefits receive a child allowance of DKK 17 per person. Day per day a child. Most recipients of fixed-term unpaid pay have previously received a rehabilitation allowance or a return allowance. This means that, on transition to a temporary non-entry fee, they do not receive lower benefits than before. In addition, temporary unincorporated disability benefits do not generally result in lower benefits than disability pensions. Many receive a higher benefit with a fixed-term disability benefit than they would have received as a disability pensioner. This applies, inter alia, to: women who have had a variable occupational connection but who are at work when they become disabled. On the other hand, beneficiaries who are responsible for more children will be less likely to experience temporary unpaid pay than non-employee pensioners. This is due to the fact that a need-tested child supplement can be provided for disability benefit. The reform will be evaluated, as the Prime Minister has announced. This is also reflected in the Government's 2005 budget proposal. The first phase of the evaluation will take place after the first six months of this year. This evaluation will provide systematised knowledge of the characteristics of the beneficiaries, such as age, sex, diagnosis and background, and will relate to those who have been granted temporary disability benefit and disability pension after 2004. Furthermore, the evaluation will provide information on the level of benefits, including whether supplementary social assistance has been paid. The economic situation of women with children and young children’s parents will be highlighted in particular. Through the first phase of the evaluation, we will learn whether follow-up plans have been made. However, the extent to which temporary unemployment benefit recipients return to work will take longer to evaluate — naturally. The outcome and evaluation of these evaluations will be presented in an appropriate manner. To what extent evaluations will form the basis for proposing changes, it is too early to think about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e636	SV supported the system of temporary untied pay on a principle basis and with the objectives set by the Council of State. But we were against the low support supplement and have since made proposals, among other things. in the context of the State budget to have the same level of support supplements regardless of the social benefits received. What is the concrete reason why parents who receive temporary disability benefits, rehabilitation benefits or resettlement benefits should have several thousand dollars less to provide for their children than parents who receive ordinary disability benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e641	The reason why the Storting chose to go in for the solution that now applies is that it has placed a limited amount of unincorporated pay in the category with the other short-term benefits. The whole idea behind the time limit is that there should be a short-term performance, as opposed to an ordinary disability, which is more long-term. It would be very wrong to introduce a different system for measuring child supplements on this short-term benefit than on other short-term benefits, such as: Rehabilitation allowance and re-introduction allowance. If you wanted, as I understand SV, to introduce a similar child supplement, need-tested, for all kinds of benefits in social security, it would be all short-term benefits or the longer-term benefits, it would be to introduce a new principle of this change that we haven't had before. I think the most important thing is to make sure that it's a good cover, while at the same time giving the right incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e646	It's a very precise description of what SV wants, the state council is now giving. We therefore believe that children of parents who receive some type of social security benefit should be guaranteed the same economic basis regardless of benefits. Now I understand that there is an evaluation going on and that it will come to Stortinget. Then my last question is whether it will come during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e651	I would remind you that the system of temporary untied pay was introduced on 1 January 2004, that we have launched the evaluation, but that it will necessarily take some time to get the results on the table. What I said in my first answer, it says. We expect that the first phase of this evaluation that I described in my main response will be available after the first six months of this year, i.e. that there will be no opportunity to present it to the Stortinget in the spring session, but it will be presented in a suitable manner to the Stortinget when it is available and we have taken a decision on how to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e660	‘In Florø, a boy loses his daily allowance if he takes a character-enhancing exam to qualify for further education. The head of staff states that there is no room in the legislation to provide regular job-seekers with the opportunity to finance regular education during the day-care period. Is this true in all cases, and will the Council of State give Aetat greater opportunity to grant regular training as an action for ordinary job seekers for more people to enter work and vocational education and training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e667	The right to benefits in the course of education is governed by the Law on Social Security. The general rule is that those undergoing education or training are not entitled to a daily allowance. The reason for this is that they are not considered to be real jobseekers or available to the labour market as long as they are under education. Funding regular day-to-day training would also be contrary to the purpose of the day-to-day arrangements and lead to unfair discrimination between persons who have earned the right to day-to-day benefits and those who have to finance education themselves through loans or by other means. There are some exceptions to the general rule. It's e.g. the possibility of combining education with daily allowances if the training is explicitly provided for as evening training, the day-payer follows the course and the training is compatible with full-time work. Furthermore, in order for the training to be considered compatible with full-time work, the training must have reduced the study progress by at least 50 pst. in relation to equivalent day-time training with normal study progress. Neither do jobseekers who read to the examination as private individuals without attending any teaching at all have the right to a daily allowance. They do not follow a specific instructional system organised for teaching outside normal working hours and therefore cannot be accepted as students during evening hours. I am aware that, in two cases on 14 January of this year, the Social Security Court has issued notices that go much further in the interpretation of the day-to-day money regulation than Aetat has accepted through its practice. The Ministry will now carefully assess the findings of the Social Security Court and the reasons for them. On 15 February of this year, some minor changes were made to the day-to-day allowance regulation. Among other things, exceptions to the requirement to attend education may now be made in the absence of a school or a fixed training offer within reasonable travel distance. The amendments will enter into force on 1 July of this year. The use of regular training as labour market measures is currently being attempted in a pilot project in Hedmark and Uppland. The pilot project was launched in 2003 and will last for four years. The measure provides that regular training as an action may be provided for up to 10 months. An evaluation of the project will provide an important background to consider any further legislative changes. In addition, in cooperation with the Minister of Education and Research, I have started work on assessing the interface between labour and education policies. The two departments are now working together to define some pilot projects in this interface between the two policy areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e686	I read between the lines of the answer from the council here that he also sees some unfairness in this. For example, it seems quite incomprehensible to people that if you have the opportunity to take training in the evening, it is okay, but if you do not have the opportunity to take training in the evening because of the absence of the offer, and you take this as a privateist in the evening – as Markus Hauge, as this boy is called, can do perfectly in this context – you will not have the opportunity to get this granted during the daytime. I was called by a guy from Mo just after I had sent in this question, and he had an even worse story to tell than this one from Sogn and Fjordane. He had got a paralysis in one foot and was at a professional rehabilitation course, got a job as an economist, which was what he trained for in this course, but because of cuts in the company where he worked, he lost his job again later. This was an education that was paid. He had then been suspended from taking the last part of the master's study, but was told that if he started his education again, he would lose his daily allowance. Does the Council agree that this is an unreasonable and quite incomprehensible example of the Aetat code?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e693	The President must remember that the speaking time for supplementary questions is limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e696	I cannot rule out any unfairness in the practice of legislation in this area. However, the law is such that unfairness should not become even greater, namely that it favours those who are on a daily basis, compared to those who have to take their education in the ordinary way, financed in an ordinary way. Now I have announced that we have adjusted the legislation at one point that is relevant to the problem raised. I have also said, and can elaborate on it, that in the context of the rulings given by the Social Security Court, the Department will ask for a detailed statement from the Council on the practice followed. I would like to ask immediately for a professional assessment from Aetat on that and then to take a decision on the question of the complaints of the Social Security Court that practice, and, where appropriate, the legislation, should be changed. I'll have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e703	So the head of state in Sogn and Fjordane, Frode Henden, says the politicians have ordered us to be so strict. He also says that the job of those who receive a daily allowance is to get a job, not to spend time on education. The problem with what the Council of State is taking up here, and with which he answers me, is that if you ask people who are unemployed and who really need the professional replenishment of further education, to take a student loan instead, many of them will go down dramatically into income. And it's hard when you have a custody responsibility, as many, after all, have. Today, unemployment benefits can reach up to almost 700 kroner a day, while study funding reduces to half of this. We know that people who are unemployed have already initially fallen into income, and when we ask them to go further into income, it will put a lot of people in a totally hopeless situation. Doesn't the Council of State see that many would have been easier to get a job if they had been able to take more education? And shouldn't the legislation then have added up to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e710	Well, the Council of State sees it, and he also sees that it is right that it opens up the possibility that beneficiaries can take part in education to the extent that it does not conflict with what is the main point when you go on a daily allowance, namely to apply for a job and be available for work. That is what is meant by the regulatory framework. I also see in the light of the cases dealt with by the Social Security Court that there may be a basis for reviewing the practice and, where appropriate, the legislation in the wake of it, in order to see whether we have a good balance between the fact that we should not discriminate in an unreasonable way against persons who have earned the right to daily allowances, in relation to those who have to fund the studies themselves, and the aim that must be in labour market policy, that people must also qualify for employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e721	‘The rescue queue has grown significantly and remains in line for more than 2300 people to zone. This creates considerable pressure and extra work for the police, the courts and, in particular, the prisons. The effect of the ransom is poor when it comes late, and when prisons have to use all the energy to get as many prisoners as possible in. The reconciliation queue has now been a persistent problem for several years, and the government has had several occasions to do something. Does the Council have any strategy for when and how to remove the queue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e728	Let me first, with the President's permission, very briefly give a little additional information in connection with an interview from the representative of Storberget to me on 17 February. Then I told the representative of Storberget that, according to my knowledge, we had eco-teams in the police districts, but I wanted to check it out. I have made such a check, and I think it is right to say that there are such teams in all the districts, except in three. In the three, there are temporary arrangements, but everything should be in place by 1 July of this year. I think it belongs to the accuracy and consideration of the representative's commitment. Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e733	That's when the president starts the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e736	I share the views of the representative Storberget on the challenges created by the reconciliation queue, and the government has therefore launched a number of measures to address this since 2002. The summer of 2003 was the highest since the beginning of the 1990s; from then until the fall of 2004 the nesting queue fell. In the fourth quarter of 2004, there was a relatively high level of access to criminal services compared to the third quarter of 2004. This may have been due to the fact that the queue has increased again. It also appears to have been a trend towards longer and stricter penalties. It is a misguided development that serious crime is punished more severely. Crime statistics from the Statistical Central Agency show that the average level of penalties has increased in 2003 compared to previous years. In 2003, the average fines for all unconditional judges were about 170 days, while in the period 2000–2002 it was around 140 days. This is also reflected in criminal law statistics, which show that during the period 2002–2004, the number of prison days produced each year has increased by 9.1pst, while the number of insertions has decreased by 4.9pst. At the same time, there has been an increase in the rate of refusal of probation at two thirds of a time, which is no longer granted automatically. This is a desired development. The government has worked systematically on various measures to combat the queue: Over the period 2002–04, a total of 292 prison sites were established. I expect this measure to be more effective in 2005 than in 2004.There has been an increase in the number of community sentences from 378 in 2002 to 2 094 in 2004. The effect of new places, duplication and forward release is equivalent to a prison of more than 1.5 times the capacity of the planned Halden prison. The new places alone represent more than the planned Halden prison. The government has been following up the rescue queue continuously throughout the period. The effort to increase prison capacity has produced results. There are unforeseen things happening, such as the fire at the Inner Eastfold prison, the Drukstad department, in January of this year, which meant the closure for several weeks of a large number of places, and the mushrooming in Molde prison, which led to the closure. There have also been some technical delays in the expansion of New Kong wings prison and in Bergen prison. For the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2004–2005, The Storting adopted the following measures with work started on: The establishment of 15 new places at Inner Eastfold Prison and an extension of 14 places in Drammen Prison. This, together with the measures already implemented, gives 423 new places. In addition, I will refer to the increased effect of early release. The Ministry is working on the planning of a new prison in Inner Salten and a new prison in Halden. My line is that, in the light of recent developments in the queue, new short-term and long-term measures are now being considered. The concrete measures will bring the Government back to the Storting with appropriate means.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e780	I thank you for your answer. There are, of course, two challenges in terms of the pay queue. One is about numbers and logistics, in the sense that we have a certain concept of how many prison days we will need in the future, and that can be a reasonably simple solution. I don't need a complete answer to that. The second is that the people who are going in and out get a qualitatively good offer. It's the most important problem, and it's also the hardest one. The reason why the Workers' Party is constantly raising this question is that when we take focus away from the content and keep counting places and putting the device to just measure places, it hits the content of the property in many ways. I had hoped that the Minister of Justice would have given a clear answer in relation to when you have the ambition that this reconciliation queue should be lost, so that you can move the focus, which is necessary. Then it might also be relevant to ask: What is the Government's ambition regarding the launch in Halden and the Inner Salt?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e787	With regard to Internal Salt Prison and Halden Prison, we have said that we should come back with a reference to it in the revised national budget. They have also been prepared for the work on these matters. But if you were to decide to build a Halden prison, for example. during the current year, it will take several years for it to be put in place. In any case, short-term measures will be needed. I have explained such measures that we have generated – at new places corresponding to the Halden prison and well saw it. The sum of new places, duplication and forward release equals one and a half times Halden's imprisonment. But I agree with the representative of Storberget that more thoughts have to be thought about. That's why I pointed out how the social penalty has increased, which is to think differently about people who can son to society in that way. Therefore, there has been a strengthening of the content during the period I have been Minister of Justice. For this reason, there is also a real strengthening of all attempts to build the best possible administrative cooperation in cooperation with agencies, from Aetat to healthcare and social services, because it is a matter of which the representative is concerned that there should be no return to prison. So I mean, we have all those thoughts. But the representative – with respect to reporting – has always kept the pressure on the figures. I respect him for that. Then he also has to figure out that I'm responding to the numbers, every time he asks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e792	I fully agree with the argument about Halden prison, that it will take time before it gets in place, and that we need to have other measures. But it speaks to a great extent so that you should have a plan in relation to how we are now dealing with the growing queue that we have actually seen in the past. It also calls for this to be started as quickly as possible. I can do nothing but encourage the Minister of Justice to use all his forces within the Government to get it in place, so that the spade is thrust into the ground both in the Inner Salt and in the Halden as quickly as possible, as the Workers' Party has actually taken the floor. I also believe that there is a clear majority for that in Stortinget, so it should be a good thing for all of us. So go to the bottom of the equation. It can be very important in relation to the pressure on the pay queue, not only to reduce crime, but also to reduce the pay queue if we stop the repeats. 60-70 pst. Of those in prison and those in Norwegian prisons, drug use problems. Would it not now be time to provide this ‘drug court’ so that we could quickly get it in place, faster than the ministry intended?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e799	I'm a fan of putting the most possible spades in the earth. Some spade in the earth leads to a longer time before the buildings are there, but I have been quite productive in terms of spade use during these years. I have to go to prisons where no one knew they were there, simply by visiting prisons. Elemental prisons are established at a pace that has probably not been common. Necessary spaces have been provided because they have been so in the short term, and they will still be so. It was as part of that activity that we found places, which we could get in comparison with the Progress Party, both in Eidsberg and in Drammen. I will continue to be concerned about this work, both with the long-term, which the representative addresses, i.e. in Halden and the Inner Salt, and also with the short-term. In terms of reconciliation and content, we share ideals. Getting a judge-led drug programme is an initiative I've taken. I know that the representative and I agree on the positive about it. The government has said that it should come back to it at the latest in the context of the revised national budget. I have even seen places in Norway where you do this in practice without the name of a court-run program, but by making the pilots you can get more pressure on it. The representative and I share the view of increasing that pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e806	The President notes that there is a growing tendency to mention a spade for a spade, but that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e809	Isn't it better that a spade is a spade in front of a excavator, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e815	Yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e822	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In the last edition of the Police Forum, there is an article on police computer systems. Here, it was claimed that the police costs large amounts of money per year and that coordination of some computer systems is difficult. Since correct information can be crucial at the right time, something has to be done. This is a responsibility of the Council of State, and what action does the Council of State have to take in order to clean up these matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e831	This is a very important topic, and I would therefore like to start by stating that appropriate and effective ICT solutions are important tools for the police in their efforts to achieve criminal policy objectives. The work on modernising police computer systems is therefore a priority in the Police Directorate. The need to invest in this is also mentioned in the budget proposal for the current year. In this case, it is necessary to distinguish between the ‘central systems’ of the police and other local systems that have been largely developed or acquired directly by the police districts or agencies. Central police systems are essentially old systems that are designed and developed according to completely different principles and methods than would be the case now. These were set up in due time to replace manual records. The systems are later further developed and improved, but are still based on old principles and data models. These systems must be modernised and a common architecture has now been established to underpin this modernisation work. Once this modernisation has been completed, it will no longer need to be checked in several computer systems to access relevant information. Mobile ICT solutions shall also be put in place to provide secure access to police systems from mobile devices. This means that access to central police systems is, in principle, made available to the police officer and woman ‘on the foreside’, and that the information systems are more directly supporting the operational police service. This project will be realised in a first version in 2005. The modernisation process described above has been started. It is resource-intensive, but has a high priority and is a central theme of the governance dialogue between the Ministry and the Police Directorate. By 1 July of this year, the Directorate of Police shall have revised its ICT strategy and action plan based on the Common ICT Strategy of the Justice Sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e846	First of all, I appreciate the answer, which I think is evidence that here we can make things happen that will serve the unit as such. One of the most important issues in this way must be the security of the individual official and woman who is out doing a job on behalf of the Norwegian community. At the same time, I assume that the Council of State sees this as a challenge. We have recorded experiences from the social security system, which have worn out. The defense has struggled to get computer systems that have been functional and good, even though large funds have been put in here. Then there are two things that I could imagine hearing the views of the Council of State. One applies to the time factor. He has said something about progress now, but when can we have a proper system? Another question is, I have POD per. the competence required today? Do you have enough reference groups and experience to have a full and good system that will remedy the situation I have described?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e855	First short on security. It has been an important step for security that Stortinget followed the Government's proposal to establish a digital emergency network as soon as possible. It means a lot to security. But that is not an alternative to what Mr Ellingen is addressing. To his question: I assume that the Directorate of Police is either competent or competent. through PDMT. With regard to the time perspective here, I have just asked for a return report per. 1 July to then understand the challenges, both technological, economic and temporal. I, as a Norwegian citizen and also as a State Council, have considerable humility towards public efforts to approach ICT solutions. It is easier to make large proclamations than to find practical solutions. That's why I want to be a little low until I get things back – not low on the need to get them back, but low on trying to boast about some promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e864	I thank you again for the answer, which I thought was both humble and reasonable. That humility is probably several that could have taken with them at regular intervals, I assume. What is nevertheless a paradox, and which I will address as a final question to the Council of State, is that I think it takes a long time before we take these steps that will provide improved efficiency. Does the Council of State and his counterparts, in order to use such a concept, have a conscious view of this, so that one consciously focuses on the dietary-benefit principle and old/new equipment? Because there is no doubt that new, good solutions could also provide a better and more light-headed police force in relation to the tasks we want them to do when we simplify the processes of service, not least in terms of operational relations with the public. So the question is, are you conscious enough, do you have enough strategies, and do you work analytically enough to focus on the gain by investing in new equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e871	I think we're aware of what we can achieve, but I think we're also both humble and realistic in that it takes time. And as I said, some of the central systems were introduced to replace manual systems. Then it's clear that you reach a point where you have to make a generation change. When making the generational shift that makes it related to other aspects of the justice sector, for example: The criminal justice chain, it's important for us to get it in place. When I'm careful, it's not because I don't have ambitions to find the solutions. It's because I have the management of a system that works under a lot of pressure. A major effort is being made in criminal matters and in the courts, and the police have been through a very necessary reform, which has given them greater competence in both schooling and police methods. When all these things happen at the same time, I'm enough to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. At least you have to sort out the thoughts in turn and in order, so you have an overview. On the ICT side, I share the representative's positive commitment: that it can give a lot. At the same time, I am humble enough to have an advance that I control. That is why, as I said, I have asked for such a plan, and I have set a deadline. It's July 1st this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e880	With that all available thoughts are sorted out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e887	This question, from the representative of Ågot Valle to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Culture and the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e890	I have this question, which I hope I get a good answer to: ‘According to a survey carried out by the Municipality’s Central Association, 59 pst will be received. by municipalities to cut the cultural budgets in 2005. Bad urban economy and reorganisations that make the cultural habits disappear as their own establishment may be causes. The consequences are getting worse for cultural life and fewer opportunities for participation and for artistic and cultural experiences. Does the Council acknowledge that she has a responsibility for culture at municipal level, and will she do something to make it possible to reverse developments for the better?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e899	The study to which Mr Ågot Valle refers is based on a simplified survey conducted by the Local Governments’ Central Association in January 2005 on the priorities of municipalities in the 2005 budget compared to 2004. The survey covered 164 municipalities and three sectors: education, health, social, care and cultural purposes. The question was whether the offer in each sector in 2005 would be extended, maintained or reduced. The result was that 36 pst. said that the cultural offer would be cut – not 59 p.m., to which the representative Valle refers. 50 pst. of the requested municipalities would maintain the offer, and 14 pst. would extend it in 2005. The Central Association of Municipalities has stated that they do not have any updated survey of municipal expenditure for cultural purposes for 2005 other than the one referred to here. The last published cultural statistics produced by the Statistical Central Agency cover 2003. From 2001 to 2003, these statistics show that the net operating costs of municipalities for different cultural purposes increased by 15 pst. Statistics with figures for 2004 will only be available after 15 March of this year. In St.meld. No 48 for 2002–03 Cultural policy towards 2014, the cultural expenditure of municipalities is reported in the decade 1991–2000. Calculated in real terms, there was a real increase of approx. 26 pst. in the net operating costs of municipalities during that period. The Culture Communication also refers to the reorganisation of the cultural sector in the municipalities. During the 1990s, many municipalities switched from pure primary selections of culture to multi-stakeholder selections, such as cultural and educational selections or culture and industry. Similar changes also took place at administrative level. A 1998 NIBR report, Culture in Weathering?, pointed to possible links between local communities and the priority of this area of action. The picture does not appear to be clear, however, and the causal relationship is not obvious either. Available statistics show that the net operating expenditure of municipalities on culture up to 2003 is not only stable but shows an increase. In order to draw conclusions with regard to 2005, more information is needed than the results that can be drawn from the questions asked by the Municipal Councils in January to a sample of municipalities. The development from 2003 to 2004 will also have an interest in assessing the latest developments in the municipal culture sector, and so we will know more about this after 15 March this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e912	I thank you for your answer. For those of us who want to hear – and who, among other things, listen to radio – now the signals about concrete cuts in the cultural offerings around many municipalities. For a long time, cultural life in municipalities has been lawless, homeless, because of reorganisations — and also more and more moneyless. At least that's the signal we get. Then, of course, it's tempting for me to raise the need for a general cultural law and a better local economy, but I won't. The Council of State referred to a report drawn up in 1998. It was actually the Bondevik government the time it ordered. Much has happened since then. So my question is: Will the government ensure that we get a thorough survey of cultural life in the municipalities – more thorough than the one we got in the cultural message – so that we can chisel out a cultural policy that strengthens the foundations of Norwegian culture and thus also the relationship between national, regional, municipal and voluntary cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e923	I don't think that on behalf of the Minister of Culture I'm going to decide on the need for further surveys of cultural life in the municipalities. The issue raised here today concerns the extent of investment and expenditure in cultural life. This is the Government, of course, very concerned. Norway is a country with very good statistics on municipal services of a different nature and with which the statistical central agency and the municipality’s own reporting system provide us. In all sectors – and, I can confirm, even within the sector that is the one I manage every day, school – there are still signs of cuts, both within school and within culture. But the government here is dependent on waiting for the real numbers. I've referred to them, and they show not only a stable development, but a growth in the appropriations for culture, just like for school. So we're going to have new numbers on March 15th, and then we're going to deal with them – as a starting point for the assessments we're doing on the economic side of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e932	I thank you for your answer. I hope that the Council of State will make a strong wish – not just from me, but from large parts of cultural life – about a thorough monitoring, so that we can gain new knowledge. I assume that the Minister of Education is concerned with knowledge. But since it is the Minister of Education standing here, I would like to mention that a state report, at least signals, shows that it is also cut in the library offer. The Finns have received a lot of praise for their ease of reading and good reading skills. The children in Finland can read well, it turns out. Finns have put a great deal of effort into the library offer. If it turns out that there is a cut in the library appropriations, will the Minister of Education not be alerted that this could perhaps go beyond the reading capacity of the children and the cooperation between the public libraries and the school libraries?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e941	Now the Council of State has changed its identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e944	As I said, we have to deal with more than signals. We have to relate to real numbers. But I can confirm that both the Minister of Culture and I are busy with the library offer, whether it concerns the public libraries, the school libraries or working with them. It's actually a very central part of the total effort on art and culture in and in relation to the school. The cultural school bag and the Government’s plan ‘Give room for reading!’ shall enhance pupils’ literacy and literacy skills. My impression is that there is more to bet on the school library, precisely because of the student's literacy and literacy skills. I think that's very positive. Direct comparison with Finland, I think, is a bit difficult. It is quite true that Finns have invested a lot in school library, but if you see Finnish society as a whole, I think it is. can be characterized by much less discovery than the Nordics have books at home. That's why they use the library in a slightly different way to what we, with our traditions, may have been used to. But I support the representative, Valle, that reading is important, and that the libraries are very important for culture and a source of greater literacy and better reading skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e957	I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: «Inside. S. No The 268 majority stated: ‘This majority [...] supports the Ministry that publication should not facilitate the ranking of schools.’ Following the publication of the results of the national tests, several media have drawn up lists of schools in which they are ranked. [[2003-2004]] The professional group that analysed and assessed the quality of the samples and the results had strong objections to publication. In view of the ranking of the media, was it in accordance with the observations of the majority to publish the results?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e966	The results are public. The decision to publish the results of the national tests in 2004 at the school port.no was taken after a comprehensive examination of the quality of the tests and the reliability of the proposed reporting categories. The purpose of the study, which was carried out by a professional group from the University of Oslo and the Educational Testing Institute in Reykjavik, was two-part. It was intended to provide a basis for assessing the categories of reporting that could be defended for publication in the school portal. The second objective was to obtain knowledge that contributed to the input to improve task development, implementation and evaluation procedures for next year’s tests. The professional environments that designed the national tests in reading and mathematics had originally suggested that values should be published for several categories. However, the review team considered — after a review — that the categories did not have sufficient reliability to be reported and that they were not sufficiently different to contain valuable information separately. They therefore decided not to publish the results as planned. Instead, they proposed to combine the sub-results into a general result for math and reading skills. According to the group, this scale had high reliability and validity, and they considered that it would therefore provide meaningful value for both individual and school students. This Council was fully followed. Results from the ICT-based reading tests in English were not published, because approx. 20 pst. by the students were not able to complete the test due to technical and administrative problems in schools or in municipalities. In the case of the write test in English for the 10th grade, the group considered sensor resilience to be low and that some schools systematically overestimated their students. The panel therefore recommended not to publish results from English. However, the professional community that prepared the test, supported by language researchers, had a clearly different opinion, and considered that the results were reliable enough for publication. They justified this by the fact that it is very difficult to achieve higher reliability in open tasks where the assessment is sensor-based and that the result was surprisingly good to be the first time the teachers evaluated national tests. In view of this, the Education Directorate recommended publishing the proportion of students at or above a specific skill level. Ranking of the results published on the school portal.no has not been provided. It is possible to compare schools and municipalities. In order to create ranking lists, the media or others need to obtain information for each school or municipality and to sort and rank this information themselves. This can be done with all the information that is publicly available, including the results of national tests and examinations, and I cannot therefore see that this has become simpler or more common as a result of the school portal.no. I have constantly warned against such simplified manufacturings, but I cannot prevent that from happening. However, I believe that as a result of the debate, most people gradually understand — perhaps better, even — that such simplified presentations have little value and in themselves say little about the overall quality of a school. In addition, such manufactures may – unlike in the past – be controlled by anyone, because everyone has access to the same information. I also remind you that the school port.no contains much more indicators than the results of the national tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e983	My question was related to the majority of the population, namely, that this majority ‘supports the Ministry that publication should not facilitate the ranking of schools’. It was also referred to the group, which was a long way to go, and that's good. But the question was simply: does the Council of State feel that she has taken on seriously the comment of the majority of the population where it is said that it should not be facilitated for ranking, as we have received a national ranking, on the netpapers? In local and regional ways, we see how schools are ranked. My question remains: how will the Council of State deal with the observation from the majority that it should not facilitate ranking? And does that mean that next time, the Council of State will publish in a different way or give another feedback to those in need of feedback? The public does not initially need feedback. It's the schools and the users who need feedback. So the question is, how does the Council of State relate to the majority's remark?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e990	I don't entirely agree that only the users, as was said here, that is, students, parents, possibly schools, need this. I believe to a great extent that municipalities and counties, who are responsible for the schools, also need these results. I must remind you that what is collected from results from national tests, examinations or departures is public information. Either you download this from the web, or you pick it up on a sheet in the Education Directorate, you can, if you want, make your own ranking. The press will also be able to do that. As long as I've lived, I've seen rankings of schools in the newspapers and the media. It could happen. And no one has objected to e.g. schools can be ranked on all other indicators in the school port.no. We see quite frequently that it is ranked on the basis of the economy in schools, it is ranked on the basis of the number of PCs, the number of teachers, and you can rank on the basis of the student inspectors. We haven't arranged for ranking. We haven't ranked. We have warned against it, and we have created such a complex and nuanced system that more and more people understand how pointless it is to extract one indicator and make a ranking of it. But we can't prevent the media from doing this. They always have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e995	I agree with the Council of State that at the moment that one has the kind of information, the type of data, the public will have access to it, because it is part of the public we want to go against public administration. I can't let go of what the majority has said, because here we've got a ranking, which the majority said we shouldn't have. That's my point. And then the basic question is, how can we do this differently? And do we have to do that, if we're going to satisfy the majority's remark? I keep saying the majority, because SV wasn't in that comment. We had a different relationship to it, a different view, a different arrangement. The majority, which consisted of the government parties and the Workers' Party in this case, were quite clear that this could not be used for ranking. Then we see that it's being used this way, and that it's come out long lists, regionally and centrally. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: will the Council of State then say that a consequence of this comment must be that one cannot collect that type of data? Is there going to be a consequence of what the majority has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1004	No, I don't think so. And I believe that the majority has not said exactly what is now being said, that there should be no rankings, or that it should not be used for rankings. What you're saying is, you're not going to facilitate the ranking of schools. And I'm glad that the representative of Rikvam here confirms that this information is public. Then the logical consequence, as far as I understand, if you were to comply with SV's vision, must be to close the school gate.no as far as students' learning outcomes are concerned. Then we are left with a number of quality indicators in Norwegian school that are about inputs, resources, money, PCs, crowns, teachers, and a number of indicators for the learning environment of students, i.e. a user survey that is actually less influenced by facts than by learning outcomes. And so, as far as I understand, it's okay that this is used and ranked exactly as the media will, while they may need to go to the Education Directorate to get lists on sheets of learning outcomes that they might be able to rank. It has to be the logical consequence. I don't want to wind up the system of national tests – it's too important for students' learning – just because we're going to keep a secret about the quality of our schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1022	The question is as follows: ‘The student organisation claims to represent 140000 members, students and apprentices in secondary education. The organisation practices collective membership. When a school enrolls, all students at the school become members. In international studies, Norwegian students have scored high on so-called democratic understanding. Collective membership of the Student Organisation testifies to the limited practice of democracy. Will the State Council take the initiative to ensure that high school students individually can register and leave their own organisations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1031	The student organisation is the most distinguished organisation for higher education students. Nearly a year ago, the Eleven League was formed as an alternative to the Student Organisation. These organisations are not regulated by the Training Act and do not receive permanent operating grants from the Ministry of Education and Research. My knowledge of how the organisations are organised or operating is therefore limited. After I have been informed, enrollment and graduation of schools in the Student Organisation takes place by decision at all meetings where at least half of the students at the school have to apply for the proposal for it to be valid. Individual students may reserve the right to stand as a member by giving written notice to the central government of the organisation. This is stated in Section 4 of the Student Organisation’s Statute. All secondary schools shall have a pupil council and the representatives of the Council shall be elected by written vote. This is the result of the Training Act § 11–6. The same provision also states that when more than half of the students at school are present and voting, the Board is bound by decisions at all meetings on matters mentioned in the convocation to the meeting. The procedure for membership of the Student Organisation does not conflict with the Code on User Assistance. However, critical questions may be asked about the student organisation's rules on how membership is signed in the organisation. So I noticed that there has now been an alternative to the Student Organisation at the University of Eleven, and that this organisation follows the principle of individual registration. I don't see it as a task for me to intervene in how non-governmental organisations organize themselves. In this context, I will refer to the statutory principle of freedom of organisation. Students themselves have to choose which organisations they want and work for organisations to have legislation that students themselves want. I will therefore not do anything to change the student organisation's own legislation. In recent years, the Ministry of Education and Research has contributed project support and grants to welfare work in the Student Organisation. The size of government funding varies slightly from year to year. In 2004, project support amounted to NOK 700000, while the grant for welfare work in the Student Organisation was NOK 1150 000. In addition, the Student Organisation received NOK 470000 in support from the Learning Centre, primarily in connection with Operation Dagsverk.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1046	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I am well aware that the Department cannot in any way control either the business or the statutes of various student organisations. Nevertheless, signals from the high school authorities are essential. It is also the case that in the articles of association of the Student Organisation, which the Council of State correctly referred to in its reply, Section 4 provides for registration and withdrawal. But it's called collective membership, and it's also talking about the right 'to reserve yourself against being collectively associated with the Student Organisation'. My follow-up question is whether the school council believes it is a good example to give to students to use collective membership in an association of high school students. Unlike being organized as an employee, you are organized as a student here, and the school has a role model to attend to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1057	As I said, the organisation and potential members almost have to decide for themselves what kind of legislation they want in their organization. But as I said, I have noticed that an alternative organisation has now come, based on a different type of legislation, with individual registration. That is the option, although it may not be known. I also know that the student organisation has started these days or is going to start what might be called a democracy campaign, which I do not know more about. But I'm sure they'll be very well aware of what's going on in Stortinget regarding the Student Organisation. Here they have received views from the representative of Sortevik, who is concerned with their own democracy, and which they may find it useful to discuss between themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1064	In its first response, the Council of State also concerned the appropriations allocated to the Student Organisation. As far as I know, in 2004, they were raised to 3 million. kr, including operations of the day. I have to remind you that the appropriations for the association of stakeholders for the 600,000 students in basic education are under 6 million. kr. My follow-up question is: Will the Council of States look further on the basis of the allocation, so that it is based on the number of members who are actively and individually registered in the organisation and do not become a joint allocation or a total allocation to a single organisation that practises collective membership?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1071	Without considering the conclusion, I can confirm that I will go through the way we allocate funds to the Student Organisation, because there has been a certain tradition that something has gone from the Department, which has gone from the Learning Centre, now the Directorate. The overview may not have been complete and the dialogue with the Student Organisation is not good enough. We are therefore trying to clear up these issues through a dialogue with the Student Organisation that might clarify some principles for granting this type of support.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1080	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘The Sunnmørspost of 1 February this year states that Spanish fishing vessels are engaged in uncontrolled and unresponsive fishing with nets west of the North Atlantic. In what way can the Norwegian Government contribute to the control of this fish?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1089	On the basis of the article in the Sunnmørspost, a joint report is drawn up between the Institute of Marine Research, the Directorate of Fisheries and Irish and British institutions in January of this year. It is a preliminary study of practices related to net fishing for deep-water species west of the North Atlantic. The report is a shocking reading. It testifies to the total lack of respect for the basis of life on which fishermen and fisheries-dependent communities are based. I do not hesitate to characterize the practice that has been revealed here as reprehensible. From the Norwegian side, we have been an international driver for this problem in relation to so-called ghost fishing, i.e. lost nets that continue to fish. Such yarns represent an ethical and resource problem. They may also constitute devastating obstacles to other tools, such as jets and lines in the event of collisions with tools. Compared to the EU, this problem has been addressed a number of times, most recently during Mr Borg's visit to Norway last week. Cooperation on this problem complex is now also formalised in the 2005 Fisheries Agreement between Norway and the EU. This will be followed up by technical consultations on these issues between Norway and the relevant Member States. The species of deep water are more vulnerable because of their particular biology than the traditional species on which they are fished. At the same time, we know relatively little about the deep-living species and are therefore also worse equipped to manage them properly. In this context, Norway has taken the initiative of establishing the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NEAFC), the cooperation organisation for the management of the international seas in the north-east Atlantic, for the protection of certain sea and bottom regions. At the last meeting of NEAFC in 2004, the organisation decided to close five areas of international waters for bottom trawl, net and line fishing. It's a step in the right direction to prevent what we've been exposed to through this report. In addition, Norway has also decided to contribute to the reduction of fishing day effort by deep water species by 30 pst. for the members of the organisation. We have achieved something in order to get better control of this type of fish, but this is obviously not enough. I will follow up on the work that has now been done to highlight this irresponsible fishing and to raise this issue in the current forums, both in the EU and in the NEAFC context. The aim must be to set in motion new processes aimed at technical regulation and control and awareness-raising. The fact that this problem has been highlighted in communities between several countries, which together have contributed to the preparation of the report, gives me hope that we can move forward in this work. It's urgent. Ghost fishing, the nets left there, help to tear away the nutrient basis from those who are going to live on fish. We can't live with that. I have also made that quite clear to Commissioner Borg, and he agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1100	I thank you for the full and good answer. This is environmental crime of the worst kind. If we are to believe in what is stated in this article, we are talking about each boat having approx. 25 miles with nets, and we talk about approx. 30 boats. Then we're up to a distance of 8 000 km. Is it an extra problem that the Spanish fleet is often registered in Germany or the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1109	I have no reason to say that it allows for a greater degree of environmental crime that the fleet is registered in an EU country other than where it originally belongs. I have no reason to say that. But I can confirm that what is described in the report is credible. The Directorate of Fisheries, the Institute of Marine Research and the British and Irish institutions have jointly revealed this. I have seen the image, which was presented last week for the undersigned and Fisheries Commissioner Borg, who confirms what the report says, and what the representative of Mr. Augan is drawing out here. This is scary reading. This is so serious and so significant resource crime that we intend to have further enhanced efforts to get rid of it. This requires international cooperation. What Norway achieved last year at the NEAFC meeting was the closure of waters and the reduction of fishing days. The problem is that the yarns standing there fish 365 days a year, and scientists believe that they fish for up to ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1114	There's an additional problem here, and that's that one in Spain has subsidies on the purchase of yarn. This means that one is not so careful to catch after stormy periods, etc. Would it be that there are subsidies within the image, being a negotiating card for Norwegian government powers in the quest to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1119	First, I would like to congratulate the representative, Mr. Augan, who addresses this question. I believe that an increased political focus on these issues is in keeping with the fact that we are also getting through in international negotiations. Last week we took up with Commissioner Borg the subsidy element contained in yarn, which undoubtedly contributes to the fact that taking care of the tools is not as inspiring as if it had more splintered on the purse. We've taken that up. The problem with this so-called ghost fishing, that yarn is left, is also known from the Norwegian coast. That is why we have used public funds and, in cooperation with the industry, cleaned up, so that it can be removed. As I said in my main response, this is both ethical and environmentally reprehensible. In addition, legal fishing with other tools is prevented because of the use of collisions. At all: we have a lot of pressure on this, this is so serious that it affects us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1133	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘There is currently a great deal of uncertainty in the municipalities and Royal Norwegian Boat Federation, which is Norway’s only nationwide boat organisation, as to whether a port of pleasure is to be regarded as a port under port and water law. A growing number of municipalities use recreational boat ports as a source of income for the municipality fund. Has the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast assessed whether this is contrary to Section 23 of the Law on Ports and Waters, which provides that revenue from ports should be entered in their own port register, which should be used only for the operation of the port and port links?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1142	It's a good question, to which it's not easy to give a simple answer. The question of the local authority’s access to the charging or remuneration of users of pleasure boat ports cannot be answered with a general answer valid for all ports. The answer will depend on ownership and the organisation of the port. I can draw up some general guidelines here, but I would like to stress that each case has to be assessed in a concrete manner and on the basis of the facts in the case in question. The Law on Ports and Waterways has rules on the organisation, management and financing of municipal ports. If a pleasure boat port is private, the port and water law does not regulate the use of the fee required by the users. In the case of municipal ports, it is necessary to draw a distinction between recreational boat ports forming part of the municipal port administration, which are part of the port register, and recreational boat ports which are not established using port cash funds. If the municipality has chosen to establish a port of pleasure using the funds of the port register, it must comply with the provisions of the Law on Ports and Waterways. This means that charges levied by the municipality on users shall be used only for port purposes. Thus, the use of these fees is not allowed for other municipal purposes. If the municipality does not use the funds of the port register to establish or operate the port of pleasure, the port and water law does not impose on the municipality the use of user charges. In this case, the municipal law regulates the use of funds by the municipality. In the past, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has raised various issues relating to port organisation and the use of the funds of the port fund, including issues related to recreational boat ports. Today, the power to assess such cases under the Port and Water Law § 23 is delegated to the Coastal Directorate. The Directorate must, as mentioned at the outset, consider each case in a concrete manner in the light of the facts and in the light of past administrative practices. However, the governance of municipal ports depends on whether or not this has been financed by the port fund, and then there is a different practice and a different use of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1164	That was a comprehensive answer. I don't know how wise I got from the answer. It might have created even more confusion than clarification. It turns out that in many places this has led to a new property tax for boat owners. Only in Son have you now had an increase of 35 pst. per 1 % boatyard. At least it is not a goal for the Progress Party to be able to do so. Will the Minister take the initiative to clean it up in this area, so that there is a uniform approach to the small boats in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1173	Yes, it was a comprehensive answer, and then, of course, I cannot decide if the representative was wiser. But I think it is important that we have made it clear that when it comes to the collection of charges by municipalities from recreational ports, there is no uniform answer. The crucial thing is how you have financed it. If it is financed as part of the port activities, the fees may also be used only for that purpose. If they are established outside the port fund, the municipalities are freer to dispose of the revenues and give priority to what they want to use them for. When it comes to changing practices, we don't see that there is a need for it. The Directorate deals with each case, but the leading thing is how the port is financed. We now have the Port and Water Law under work. We will look at – not least on the basis of the question now raised – whether there is a need to address these issues, but initially we do not see that there is a need for it. The law is clear enough, the problem is the handling and understanding of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1180	I thank you for your answer. It is good to go in and look at this in connection with the treatment and revision of the law. In connection with the fact that the rescue company has now taken over the voluntary registration of the boats, we have seen that some municipalities have used that register to collect taxes on boats. The intention of removing this register was that such a register should not be used to collect fees. So now this is used, and it looks very different, depending on whether a boat is registered or not. Will the Minister look at this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1187	I am not sure that I can fully understand that the municipalities would levy charges from others other than those who are users of the port. You can't use any register and send bills to someone who hasn't used the port. With regard to the amount of the charge and the use of the charges, municipalities must either base the port law or the municipal law. But if you were to print fees for ships that have not visited the port, then I would think that the pleasure boat owners would have a case they could go to court with – not to the politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1216	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1223	I have the following questions: ‘According to a notice published in the Haugesunds Avis on 17 September 2004, the Council of State stated, inter alia, that ‘I will never dictate anyone to impose toll collection without proposing that this be done on the basis of local initiative.’ Will the Council of State follow up these opinions and take into account the views of the relevant municipalities when examining the toll project in Haugaland in the Government?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1232	I am familiar with working on a Haugaland package that affects municipalities both in Rogaland and in Hordaland. The Land and Transport Sub-plan for Haugaland, which is the basis of the Haugaland package, has been submitted to the Ministry of the Environment for approval. The project contains six different packages that can be realised independently of each other. According to the State Road Administration, the affected municipalities of Etne in Hordaland and Haugesund, Tysvær, Bokn, Vindaford, Ölen and Sauda in Rogaland have joined the proposal for toll collection. Carmøy in Rogaland has opposed the scheme, while Sveio in Hordaland has opened toll financing if the package is extended to projects that the municipality wants to implement. The county council of Rogaland and Hordaland county councils have agreed to a regional toll scheme on Haugaland. In the proposal for an action programme for other national road networks for the period 2006-2015, the Vegvesen Region West proposed State resources for the project. It has been provided for central treatment after the county authorities have dealt with the action programmes in spring 2005. A number of toll projects and packages are to be assessed both at local authorities and in the state road system. Several of these are of a regional nature and affect many municipalities that often have different interests. As a general rule, the county or county councils and directly affected municipalities shall join the case. In the event of disagreement, there must be an assessment and a balance between the different points of view. I would therefore like to assess the views of both the county councils and the municipalities concerned when the matter comes to the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1241	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I really think was somewhat disappointing. As the council said, the municipal government in Karmøy, the largest municipality in Haugaland, has said no tolls. In addition, there has been a signing campaign against tolls in the region, where well over half, up to over 70 pst. of those who gave their vote at the last roll-call election have signed this. And as if that wasn't enough, the Right-Chairman and municipal minister Erna Solberg at a member's meeting in Karmøy Right-Certified that it was not about tolls against the municipality's will. In view of this, can the Council of State not now ensure that tolls on Haugaland do not become applicable?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1250	I think it would be a bit strange if I were to deal with the matter before it came to my table, so I really have nothing more to say about the matter until it is there. I cannot assess what is inside until the matter is resolved where it is to be dealt with first.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1255	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. When various car and fuel charges were introduced in its time, it was claimed that these funds would go to road and infrastructure construction. What we have experienced for many years now is that only about a quarter of the funds required from the car are ploughed back to the road sector. The car has now become a dairy cow for the state, and the money is being used for a completely different purpose than they were actually intended, while we are increasingly seeing that we need to finance the road by means of tolls. It is now approaching the budgetary conference, and it is approaching elections. It would therefore have been good to know whether the Government intends to change course, or whether it will still legitimize this modern form of highway robbery.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1264	As the Council of State knows, we are now a thought beyond the original question, so the Council of State is free to answer if she wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1267	It was really a long question, but it is a question that I have received from the representative of the party of Vaksdal some times, so I expect that he is well aware of the answer: As far as road users are concerned, the cost to society of driving a car varies. Some people pay for themselves and then they do, and some don't. It depends a little on the cost to society of road accidents and environmental pressures, road wear, etc. We will probably have ample opportunity to come back to this when the budget is due.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1280	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘Through the media, we have been informed that Change Property has spent money on internal collections and hired consultants, etc. at a relatively high price. The sale of defence properties shall give the greatest net possible value. The Council of State considers it appropriate to use NOK 322 000 for a collection or NOK 175 000 per person. md. to the contracted consultant?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1289	Change Property is a department of the department of Defence Buildings to help reduce the property, construction and construction of Defence as part of the total conversion of Defence. The net income from disposal for the entire conversion period was initially expected to go to zero, because the disposal and clean-up work associated with defence property may be significant and the market may be varied. However, so far in the period, significant net sales revenue has been generated. In addition, a significant contribution is made to the conversion of the defence through reduced operating costs by the fact that the defence has to pay rent for far fewer buildings and areas than before. This means that Defence Building through Shifte Eiendom contributes significantly to financing the modernisation of the defence and strengthening its operational capability. According to Försvarsbygg, the event under the direction of Shifte Eiendom, which the representative Bredvold mentions, was a collection of 60 employees from five different sales offices spread all over Norway. The aim of the collection was to disseminate common policies, guidelines and processes related to the disposal of unarranged defence properties. I assume that the management of Defence Buildings makes rigorous assessments of the costs necessary to provide such collections with sufficient professional benefits, and that these costs are in line with the requirements of sound financial management. In the case of contracted consultant support, I would like to stress that all use of consultancy support is to be made today after the explicit approval of the manager of the establishment, cf. guidelines of 21 January 2005 – this to ensure that the overall use of the defence is kept to a minimum and prioritised to the necessary tasks such as the introduction of new economic systems and the follow-up to the National Audit Office’s annotations. Furthermore, consular posts of more than SEK 200000 shall always be published in response to tenders, as specified. regulation on public acquisitions. In the present case, Defence Building discloses that it was necessary for Change Property in a very short time to assume the rights and obligations of the main cooperation partner, because it did not itself fulfil very important parts of the agreement entered into for the operation of the Oscarsborg fastening. According to Defence Building, it was essential in this situation to hire consultant support in order to ensure the opening of Oscarsborg to the public in the summer of 2004. I would like to point out that the summer season was a success – with 50,000 visitors. According to Defence Building, this had not been possible without the necessary special competence. It is also worth mentioning that the operation of Oscarsborg in 2004 generated revenues of more than 10 million. kr. Let me also mention that according to the Transport Economics Institute, the summer season at Oscarsborg gave financial ring-effects in Frogn municipality of nearly 27 million. kr. In this case, at least the use of consultants has provided economic benefits for both the local population and the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1304	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was complementary, but which I am a little surprised at. Among other things, I am bubbling over this with net income from disposal of the property of the Defence. I thought the goal was to get a maximum net profit from selling the property of the defense, and that this gain, if you can use that word, would be used for reinvestment in the defense. Now, when the Council of State says that the disposal was initially expected to go to zero, I'm somewhat shocked, when I know that you've calculated that this would give profit, like several hundred million dollars. I don't know how much detail we're going to go. But at this seminar, you spend NOK 45,000 on CC Cowboys, you spend NOK 35,000 on a lecture, you spend NOK 35,000 on an opera singer, you spend NOK 8 000 on a theater group, you spend NOK 5000 on a tambourine department, etc. They also hired consultants who received 2.1 million in 2004. NOK 400000 in 2003 – so the same consultant received NOK 175 000 per month.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1313	With regard to the revenue from Defence Construction, I referred to the premises at the entrance to this long-term planning period, i.e. spring 2002, where the funding base for the four-year period 2001-2005 assumed that in sum the sales activity of Defence Building would go to zero, because it would be on part of the land, for example: shooting areas, are significant disposal and clean-up operations related to the fields. At the same time, it is gratifying to see that during the period, Defence Building has been able to generate significant revenues. I fully agree with the questioner that it must be the goal, because if you can generate significant net revenues through the sale after the costs of the disposal process have been deducted, you are contributing positively to the conversion of the defence, you are being transferred to the operational capability, to the defence capability. This has been contributed by Defence Building, and it is positive. With regard to consulting, I believe that defence construction in this case has given a good answer, as the result was that Oscarsborg could be opened up to the audience as intended, and thus receive income, in addition to the community getting good income.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1320	I would like to thank the Council of State for a reply. I think and hope we have the same intention, that we should get the most net possible, that we should sell the properties at a decent price to the right buyer. I notice that the Council of State assumes that the management of Defence Buildings is based on rigorous assessments of the costs to be incurred. We agree with that, of course. It may seem that Shifting Property acts freely – I put myself very much around when I say something “free” – and I want the Council to take care of it; there are some who perceive that Shifting Property acts “something free”. It may not be that Change Property can use its income/expenses in the way they have so far done in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1327	I fully agree with the questioner that we have the same objectives, both to get the highest possible net income for the Defense and to be restrictive on the expenditure side. That is why I have also clarified in guidelines to all the Heads of State or Government who sort under the Ministry of Defence, including the Head of Defence Building, that they should personally approve the use of consultants, and that they should of course adhere to the rules of procedure. In this case, Defence Building discloses that this consultancy has been necessary to generate significant revenue. Of course, I have confidence that the head of department of Defence Buildings has just made the critical assessment that the questioner underlines, and I am also quite clear that it is the department of Defence Building that the Ministry of Defence is dealing with, and that Change Property is a department in that department.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1336	It could have been tempting to continue to discuss the use of Eiendom's money and festivities, but I will instead concentrate on another part of the defense that is also a bit broken. I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The 2003 harvest session dealt with the Storting’s proposal for the implementation of Phase 3 in the conversion of the Defence Logistics Organisation [[FLO]] When can the Storting expect a new proposition with a final treatment of the structure of the FLO?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1345	For the treatment of Inster. S. No 93 for 2003-2004, cf. St. pp. No 12 for 2003-2004, Stortinget concluded that the FLO will be mainly customer-funded in the future, with the upper part of the Defence Military Organisation as customer. This means that within the framework of allocated budgets, the areas of activity, location, needs and requirements of the client are to be governed by the tasks to be carried out by the FLO, the extent to which the logistical activities are to be carried out, their location and the quality at which they are to be carried out. In order to adapt the activities to the rest of the restructuring in the Defence and to meet the significant savings requirements laid down by the Stortinget, the FLO carries out a continuous and very extensive conversion work. It is intended to establish an organisation to maintain a satisfactory supply service adapted to the needs of the operational structure, both in terms of geographical location, material structure and level of activity. In the first conversion period, the savings targets are annual FLO reductions of 1300 and then in the next conversion period, 2005-2008, at least 600 million. kr i reduced operating costs per year. years. In St. prp. No 1 for 2004-2005 briefed the Government on the further development of the FLO. It says: ‘FLO’s operational activities could be reorganised into an even more process-based model, based on the processes of system management, maintenance, supply and ICT. As a consequence, the level of divisional management will be reduced. As far as possible of the carrying out activity will be sought decentralised to the areas in which the operational units operate. ‘will in that case be changed and to a large extent decentralised to a greater number of bases. In that case, the PRE level of the day will be reduced’. It is stated in the budget proposal. In its budgetary position, the Committee said, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Committee refers to the delegation of the establishment of the agreed organisational structure, within the framework and efficiency requirements of the Storting, and that negotiations are now under way between the Defence and the employees’ organisations.’ Negotiations with organisations have now been concluded and further identification and deployment of personnel is ongoing with the parties until April 2005. The Government will follow up the Committee’s request in the same setting that the Storting be kept adequately informed about the progress in the conversion of the FLO. The government therefore aims to come back to this in St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 for the autumn. The Government also plans to present a case to the Stortinget for a new establishment with a full responsibility for the carrying out of the investment and procurement activities of the Defence Agency during the first half of the next period, 2005-2008, in line with the Stortinget Decision No. 436 for the examination of the long-term plan for that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1378	Firstly, I would like to stress that there is a consensus that the support structure in the defence has a lag in relation to the military organisation, and that is why a unanimous collapse actually gave its support to the main lines of St.prp. No 12 on the restructuring of the FLO. However, we are well aware from the Department, but primarily from the system outside, that that structure is now substantially deviated and that it is negotiated with the organisation on a significantly different structure than the one to which the Stortinget agreed. On that basis, I am very concerned that you come to Stortinget with a matter, and it may well be St. pp. No 1 that's right. However, the most important thing is that the Storting should be treated for this. I think that what has emerged about the economy for 2004, which we will come back to in the Storting, can also illustrate that the defence has not been sufficiently prepared for this internal billing that the FLO system now entails.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1385	I would first like to point out that the further development of the FLO that is now ongoing after St.prp. No So 12, we briefed the Biggest in the 2005 budget proposal. It was precisely where we described how FLO's operational activities, that is, FLO operations, could be organised in an even more process-based model based on different departments, such as process system management, maintenance, supply and ICT, and that a consequence of this would be that the level of divisional management would be reduced. We informed about that. We also informed about, as I was concerned, that the operating business will be sought even more decentralised to the areas in which the operating units operate – i.e. a greater degree of decentralisation and a greater number of bases than that underlying it when we dealt with St.prp. No 12th@item: It is Stortinget informed about, and I have deep respect for the fact that the Stortinget wants to be informed about progress in an appropriate way. So when the dialogue on the new organisation was concluded in April, it would be natural to inform about it in the budget proposal for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1390	I believe that some of the concerns in the defence can be attributed to what is now going on in the Defence Logistics Organisation. The signals we're getting indicate that it's where there are problems now, because the reorganisation of the military organization is well under way. I think it's important, not least for employees, but also in relation to the political decisions that are made, that you don't change the structure of the organization one, two, three or four times, which we can have the impression of here. It's time to calm down in the FLO and get to a point where there is now a final structure that employees' organisations have negotiated with management. Then there's a couple more things. In the budget configuration, we said that skills needed to support the operational needs and core activities of the defence must be met or built up, including the minimum staffing of personnel and services that can move into operational missions. I would ask the Council of State to ensure this. This means, among other things: that some workshops that are now under threat of closure should not be laid down, because there is the only competence available from an emergency assessment at the moment in the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1397	I would first like to say that I share Nybak's attention related to the conversion pressure on FLO's employees. Therefore, it has been very important for me that the organisations be taken on board, and that there have actually been real negotiations between the defence management and the organisations on how the organisation should now look. It is gratifying that the targets have been set, and that we are now continuing discussions on the details, which we intend to finish in April. It's important. Then I have to add that during this period the organisation of the FLO will not be completed until 31 December 2005. That's the last year of conversion we're going into, and that means, of course, that it's demanding for the employees, because we have to finish what we've started. I have great respect for the efforts that have been made, and for the results that have been achieved, despite an increase in consumption. With regard to comments to the workshops, I know that there is a matter for consideration in Stortinget about it, so there we are probably given the opportunity to go further into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1410	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1413	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment that will be answered by the Minister for Defence: ‘The Danish Food Authority has refused grazing for sheep in three municipalities in the Nordic region due to summer. Very severe loss of sheep for you in the summer of 2004. The prohibition covers 50 to 60 grazing users in Meløy, Rødøy and Gildeskall. Permit to graze would be given if it had been shot you in winter, which has not been allowed to do because. weather conditions. The size has recently adopted a two-fold objective both for grazing animals and for predators. What action will the Council of State take to remedy the situation in Northern Ireland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1422	Large losses of sheep and lamb were recorded in the municipalities of Meløy, Gildeskall and Rødøy in 2003 and 2004. I have noticed that it is you people who have affected the size of the loss to the greatest extent. In order to reduce the damage, last year, in the spring of 2004, two yurves were killed in this area under the control of the State's natural supervision. Furthermore, in the autumn of 2004, a licensing agreement was opened to allow a total of five Yves to be shared in a larger area covering the three municipalities concerned. Three yeves were killed in this licensing area, but no one was killed in the affected damage area in the three municipalities. In the autumn of 2004, early immersion of sheep from pasture to pasture in this area was also carried out. The county of Nordland then committed up to DKK 900000 to cover the costs of the sheep owners with this measure. In addition, the state-owned wild game selection allocated NOK 175 000 to reprocessing land parcels that could be used for securing and pre-recovery areas for early lowering in these municipalities. In addition to this, of course, all sheep taken from predatory game are replaced, so that the animal owners do not suffer financial damage. While the measures implemented have clearly resulted in a reduction in losses in relation to a situation without action, the administration nevertheless found in winter that further action was necessary, as the questioner is concerned about. Therefore, based on the findings of the licensing case, the Directorate for Nature Management opened on 15 February 2005 for the killing of three additional yorks in the area concerned. So far, two of these three fields are under the control of the State's natural supervision. This happened on February 20, 2005, this year. The bottling test is currently being completed today, 2 March. At the same time, samples of yours have been collected from the area that has been sent for DNA analysis. Based on this material, the directorate will assess the need to extend the killing quota with a view to reducing the damage to sheep in the municipalities concerned. I can assure the representative of Bastesen that environmental protection authorities place great emphasis on reducing the risk of new damage situations through the overall instruments available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1439	I thank you for your answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, there's a couple of you guys in the municipalities mentioned. They were taken from the helicopter. But it's far from enough for the sheep farmers to feel safe. It's also promised reward to track you down. These are positive measures. But will this cause the farmers to let go of their sheep in the areas mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1446	It is precisely the intention of the measures to ensure that the conditions are such that the sheep can be released on pasture. As I understand the matter, it is not yet such that the farmers in the relevant municipalities are refused to send their sheep on pasture, but the animal welfare department in the area has notified that they will assess the grazing ban if the predatory game situation has not improved. That's why I'm sharing with the representative's Bastisen's joy that you've actually managed to trap two yaws this last month, and that it was also opened the last month for killing another three yaws compared to those that were killed in the previous round. I also share Mr. Bastisen's view that it is positive both that it is being opened for licence hunting, and that there is a reward promised to the person who can provide information that leads to documentation of new jervehi, and it is positive that several of the measures that I have been involved in are also being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1451	It may be that this has not been refused by others, but the Food Agency has refused to accept a pasturage slip. The conditions of the North Seas are precarious. Helicopters are in pursuit. Could it be appropriate to use military forces to kill so many of you that small farmers can run sensible agriculture? Or is it forbidden to maintain small farms in the areas, which violates the intention to keep livestock together with predators? Is one in the process of changing this situation and ending the objective of having predators and animals at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1458	I don't think I as the functioning Environment Minister will pronounce me to use military! But at least I can say that very much has already been done by the Ministry of the Environment. The motivation has just been that it should be possible to keep sheep in these municipalities. It's important. This is why it has also wanted to take advantage of a number of measures, both to identify here and actually to drive what is called hi-takes, i.e. to ensure that there is a take-out of kids. It's in addition to the license hunt, and then it's in addition to the reward of the person who can provide information about new nervehi. So there's a real commitment to the Ministry of the Environment to make it possible to operate sheep farming in these municipalities. There's been a real commitment around it both this year and last year. Then we'll just have hope that it'll be enough to identify the Yeast on which the hunting license has been granted, and that the sheep can be released on the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1465	With that we have come to an end in today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-02.ana.ud817e1476	There is no record.
