ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e63	Honourable co-representatives! Former mayor Johan Østby passed away on 20 April of this year, 81 years old. Ostby was born on March 5, 1924 in Trysil. He was the third youngest of 19 siblings. In his youth, he was a forest worker. Growing up in a meager yet vital condition marked Eastby in his actions and working later in life, he always took the little man in defense when it came to political decisions and priorities. Eastby had a great interest in journalism and took correspondence courses in this subject. After a year at Nansenskolan, he was appointed as a journalist in the Eastland in 1949, and was attached to the Eastland until he left the pen in 1991. Eastby joined municipal policy in 1960 and was a member of local government, chairmanship, county councils and county councils. He also had a number of other local positions. Johan Østby was elected as a wholesaler in 1965 and served on the Stortinget until 1977. During the 12 years of his life, he was a member of the Judicial Committee, the Social Committee, the Foreign and Constitutional Committee and the Financial Committee. Eastby was a member of the Central Party's national government from 1970 to 1977. He was head of the Central Party Press Office from 1969 to 1977. As one of the Central Party's young and capable politicians, Østby was given the responsibility to lead the work on the Central Party's new principal programme in the early 1970s. This basic programme was adopted at the country's meeting in Bodø in 1973 and proved to be a very forward-looking and in many ways ground-breaking programme. Johan Østby was willful and made great demands on himself. He was a clean and clear politician. He tried to be a bridge builder in his political work, and when the conflicts got big, he would like a humble nutrition to solve them. Easttown was also a very accessible person and a capable storyteller. Many have enjoyed his anecdotes and stories of people and places in the home country of Hedmark. We are at peace with the good memory of Johan Østby. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e87	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e90	On behalf of the big business representatives Lodve Solholm, Per Sandberg, Torbjørn Andersen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to reintroduce the requirement for work permits for foreign seafarers on ships flying a foreign flag on cargo and passengers between Norwegian ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e95	The representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e98	On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Morten Lund and myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend the tax law so that R & D costs can be spent when they are incurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e103	Siri Hall Arnøy will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e106	On behalf of the big business representatives Heidi Sørensen, Kjetil Bjørklund, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I would like to propose the creation of a state-owned company to promote waste prevention and recovery, GJENOVA.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e112	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e130	In the NRK P2 program «Sunday News News» last Sunday, Minister of Modernisation Meyer confirmed that the new book agreement has led to deregulation of the book industry and that market forces have gained greater leeway. He clearly believes that greater competition will lead to a greater diversity of cheaper books. That he and the Competition Authority are most likely to be wrong, I will come back to them. American publisher André Schiffrin has said this: The key to a society's well-being is the ability to preserve certain social fields and structures that do not operate exclusively on the premises of the market and capital. For example, it applies to the literature field. Strong forces consider the book primarily as a product and the readers as consumers. Experience shows that when competition becomes the goal, it conflicts with the idea that access to a diversity of knowledge and experiences is a democratic right. This right is linked to a conscious development of Norwegian language and culture in all areas, and such a deliberate development in a small country as Norway relies on strong public efforts to protect culture against market simplicity. Thanks to forward-looking actors in the 1960s and 1970s, we in Norway have until now had a variety of books distributed throughout the country, from Tanum on Karl Johan and Norli on Torgallmenningen in Bergen to many district bookshops. There has been equal access to equal prices across the country, thanks to arrangements such as fixed prices over a relatively long period, VAT exemptions, purchasing systems and standard contracts and other collective schemes for authors. Several authors have taken the opportunity to develop their authorship, and publishers have been able to take the opportunity to develop authors. Several instruments have, as I said, contributed to this. But it has been quite central that a fixed price that has remained over a period of time has been an important literary policy instrument for a wider diversity of books and authors. Book dealers have been able to offer a width of books, and have not had to bet on large piles of few, but cheaper books at the expense of width. This, in turn, has been important for publishing policy. But the development that we've seen over a long period of time is that the time period for the fixed price has shrunk for each industry agreement, despite the fact that it's obvious that the fixed price must work over time to be the literature policy tool we want it to be. One development that we have also seen is greater concentration in the industry seam. This and the fact that the book agreement is based on a derogation from the competition law mean that the imbalance between the stock exchange and the cathedral has been gradually shifted. Therefore, it is important that we now address the discussion of a fixed price law. The discussion has been going on for too long, even after the government’s decision on the regulation as a derogation from the competition law in the book field, about wallets instead of the book as a culture. I hope that we will gradually have a more offensive debate on the development of a modern literature policy in the 21st century. The draft regulatory framework of the Competition Authority aroused considerable debate and concern among all operators in the book industry. This led to high levels of commitment, including: The authorship of Bergen, which I was so lucky to have visited. It truly proved the importance of books through a variety of events in libraries, bookstores and cafés. They also called for the Minister of Culture on the public debate arena. Then she came, and it turned out that she had taken a strong fight, I think, in the government towards a minister of modernization who believes that it is modern to have competition as the main goal of society. She managed to save the stumps. The result was not as bad as many fears. The actors were exhaling. To live with all things, wrote Dagbladet. I would like to commend the Minister of Culture here and now for taking that fight, and for ensuring that she put in place an extended purchasing system for the trial. Important principles such as fixed royalties for authors and fixed prices for the cheap books during the fixed price period were confirmed. But we have just as fully received one of Europe's most deregulated book business markets. Then we can say that large parts of the negotiated book agreement are determined by the Government's decision. This is true, but it must be remembered that the Competition Authority gave strong signals in the spring of 2004 to speed up deregulation in the book industry, and the publishers and bookstores negotiated almost by directive in the so-called Ministerial Letter in the autumn of 2004. There was more competition and not least the release of the prices of school and professional literature important premises. My claim is therefore that shorter fixed-price hours and the release of school books and books for higher education will threaten district bookstores. It'll be harder for the little ones to compete with the big ones. And with the small margins of small bookstores working within, I fear that many district bookstores will have to give up. It'll again threaten the nostrils, because many of the little bookstores are just in districts where the nostrils are strong. This, I think, is a minister of culture who is genuinely concerned with the position of the new-surgery, should think about. She should also think about the fact that the free price of school books will hit the new ones. With today's local economy, the price difference will be very important when schools are going to buy textbooks. A free pricing will make the new Norwegian books more expensive than bookkeeping because the new Norwegian editions are produced and sold in small volumes. Some of the worst things about the new book policy are freed from higher education textbooks and from professional books. It's a fact that these books meet far stronger competition from English literature than many other books do. It is important that good trade books are developed in Norwegian, which preserve Norwegian as an academic language and maintain and further develop the professional terminology used in Norwegian professional environments. The abolition of the fixed price regime for Norwegian-produced higher education textbooks and professional books leads to, I am afraid, removing a prerequisite for maintaining a viable production of Norwegian trade books. We simply can't afford that. So it doesn't have to be that way. See Germany, France and six other EU countries which have fixed-price laws based on cultural and language policy and democratic justification. One cannot outsource the culture and language of a country, they say in France, a country with a total of 60 million inhabitants. France tried the free price for two years and went back on it. The free price of books is too high a price to pay, the reason was. The book is to be protected as a cultural value, they say in Germany, where all parties are pleased that fixed-price laws provide for a variety of books in large and small bookstores. It is therefore not that all European countries have free prices in contrast to old-fashioned Norway, as someone wanted us to believe. Several countries introduce fixed-price laws – the Netherlands most recently. The law on fixed prices implies that the publishers have a legal obligation to determine a fixed price over a certain period of time. The European Parliament has also said that it is important to maintain such arrangements. The United Kingdom has free book prices. Has this led to cheaper book prices? No, on average, book prices have increased by 16 pst. Prices have fallen on top sellers, but have increased disproportionately in other books. The rise in list prices has been unusually strong in such books which were thought to be the most vulnerable in advance. The search light has become more focused on best sellers, both through price reduction and other marketing. The authors who have not gone through with a large audience have found it more difficult both to publish their books and to sell them. The Goethe Institute states that fixed-price systems in the countries that have had them have had a positive impact on the book market. Comparing countries with countries without price regulation shows that in free-priced countries fewer books are published and there are fewer bookshops and publishers. We haven't got free pricing yet, but we can end up there if evolution goes as it does now. The time has come to reconsider fixed price laws or the premises for the book contract, so that cultural policy objectives and not competition policy objectives are at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e164	The Interpellation on fixed price laws for books has already received a partial response through the decisions taken by the Government. I am pleased that we can take that debate today, after we have reached an agreement. I refer to the Royal Resolution of 27 April 2005 on a rule on exemptions from Section 10 of the Competition Act for cooperation in the marketing of books. The regulation was presented in a press conference I had with the Minister for Modernization. Here we announced at the same time that the Government would propose to create a purchasing system for the case trial. I noticed that the interpellant has noticed it and is happy for it. Interpellant is concerned that the fixed price of books and standard contracts for authors has had much to say for the lack and distribution of books throughout the country. It refers to the Culture Communication and to EU countries in order to establish that the fixed price of books should be established by law. I agree with the interpellant that both fixed price arrangements and author income are important elements of literature policy. However, it is important to consider the width of the active substance in the field. The government thinks that the new book agreement, just as the book business agreement he abolished on 1 May, is moving in the same direction as our literature policy measures. For this reason, the Government has developed a regulation for the new competition law so that the operators in the industry can implement the book contract without breaking the law. Thus, from 1 May onwards, competition law is designed to adapt literature policy objectives. Before I go into the details of the regulation and the interaction with the book agreement, I will also be able to complement the image of literature policy tools. As is known, housing composition has significant indirect support in the form of zero VAT. In addition, we have the purchasing arrangements for literature managed by the Norwegian Cultural Council. In 2005, the Council of Culture has a total procurement budget of 67 million. kr for the free book categories. In the revised government budget, the government will propose to extend the purchasing arrangements with the purchase of literaryly valuable case law. Books purchased under these schemes are distributed to schools and public libraries throughout the country. Authors and translators also benefit from the library remuneration scheme, which in 2005 is worth 67 million. kr. The permits for authors and translators under the artist support schemes amount to 26 million in 2005. kr. In addition, various support schemes for neo-Norwegian literature and other literature activities come under the State budget. Together with a well-developed Norwegian library system, these tools aim to promote the diversity, quality and access to literature, and strengthen the entire value chain from author to distribution to reader. So here it's not the market that's on its own -- it's important for me to stress. The old book industry agreement was extended by Royal Resolution on 17 December 2004 until 1 May 2004. In the meantime, the Ministry of Modernisation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Church, has developed a regulation on exemptions from the Competition Act § 10 for cooperation in the marketing of books. In the light of the interpolation, I will draw out two main features of the regulation. First of all, the arrangement with fixed royalty rates in agreements is allowed to be passed on by the authors' associations with the Publishers' Association, and the guide rates in the agreements with the Book Club. Of course, this was important for the authors. Secondly, the regulation allows the parties to agree on a fixed price in the year of issue and until 1 May of the following year. This is a degree of tightening in relation to the old industry agreement, as the fixed price period usually lasted the whole year after the year of publication. The maximum fixed price may be up to 16 months and a minimum of 4 months. In comparison, the fixed price period in the relevant European countries varies between 6 and 24 months. The interpellant criticized this particular point. But I'd like to remind you that this was what the industry itself had agreed on, so we've actually gone for what the industry itself had agreed to when it owed the length of the fixed price period. Interpellant draws up European countries which have statutory fixed-price laws. It is not possible to conclude that the ratio of literature to countries with liberalised book industries, such as Sweden and Finland, has become significantly worse than in countries with fixed prices. And I emphasize that we haven't introduced the free price of books in Norway, but we have the shorts down the fixed price period something. Nor can I say that countries with a free price have cheaper books. Here it is difficult to see quite clearly what this is like and get clear answers to it. The issue of a fixed-price law has been considered by the Government for a long time. I want to remember the cultural message, as we presented in 2003. Here on page 204 it is said that it is ‘a little topical’ to regulate prices and other conditions by law, as it is ‘may help lock firm frames which may subsequently appear unsolicited’. Negotiations on the new agreement for the marketing of books between the contracting parties to the book business agreement took place in the early summer of 2004. On 13 September 2004, together with the Minister for Modernisation, I sent a letter to the contracting parties setting out the framework for a possible new industrial agreement. In that letter we took many of the points that the industry had come up with when they broke the negotiations. It's written in the papers that there were discussions inside the government before we were agreed. Then I just want to remind you that the industry itself was unable to agree. At least we in the government were able to agree, and I am happy with the result that we could present. The first point of the letter that came from our ministers is: ‘It is not appropriate to propose a fixed price law for books.’ In the third point, conditions are given for the Governing Body to accept a fixed price arrangement for fiction and literature in general. Any new book agreement had to stick to these terms. One of the main points of the book agreement presented by the Book Dealers’ Association and the Publishing Association to the Ministry on 12 November 2004 was a reduction in the fixed price of eight months to the year of publication plus four months. So the government's regulation allows price cooperation in line with the industry's wishes, as I said earlier. In this context, it is also important to point out that, among the operators in the industry, there is no full agreement either on the free or on the fixed pricing of books. It has come out clearly in the public discussion in the last year. Not among the fans of fixed prices is the full agreement that the price should be determined by law. It is also important to note that the operators in the book industry are largely satisfied with the Government's decision and are prepared to adapt to the new situation. The book industry is a dynamic field, both technologically and commercially. The Government’s exceptional regulation allows for price cooperation, while at the same time providing operators with a level playing field. The government will keep an eye on how the new frameworks work on the book market and carry out an independent evaluation. It is important to listen to the parties in such an evaluation, but at the same time it is crucial for the quality of the assessment that it is made by bodies that do not have their own interests in the case. The decisive thing for me as Minister of Culture is that the literature supply in the country is being kept up, that is. readers have equal and reasonable access to a wide range of good books across the country. Now we're going to let the industry work within the framework of the regulation, and we're going to evaluate the situation every now and then. The book market is currently not regulated. The interpellant was also involved in this with new Norwegian books, among others. at school. There is a need for a training law to have parallel versions. It's obvious that when we're going to work on regulations, we have to insist that parallel versions have equal price and that we can negotiate until discounts are equal. There are several ways to do this, but the interpellant can be sure that this is a field that I'm going to follow carefully, and that we have the ability to regulate so that there are no differences between new stories and book books. The interpellant also expressed concern when it comes to the free price of literature for higher education. He mentions, among other things: France, which has a fixed price for this literature. This is a point where I'm not sure what's going to happen. But if one looks at e.g. France, they have a market far larger than the Norwegian one. One of the problems is that the Norwegian market is so small that the English books are priced out of Norwegian if we are to have a fixed high price. If the price goes down, it might be easier to sell Norwegian literature to higher education. At least it could be a reaction pattern if we were to keep the fixed price. At the same time, I share some of the concerns that the interpellant mentions in this way. I am pleased that we have received purchase arrangements for a case trial that can help fix any of this. In addition, the Ministry of Education has support schemes for publishing literature for higher education. In this context, cooperation will be needed to ensure that what is potentially unlucky will be maintained in an active policy towards the sector. So this is to be evaluated, and we're going to have the evaluation in place before any renegotiation or what to do with a new book business agreement in five years. Then you get some experience and you bring it with you and see what we can do to fix what might be negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e227	I do not doubt for a moment that the Minister of Culture has a strong commitment in this area. It also shows her post. The Council of State said that the issues I have raised have been partly answered by the Government's decision on regulations. I disagree with that. Fixed price – along with the breadth of instruments, as the Minister of Culture correctly pointed out – has a special position, and it is important that the fixed price works for a longer period of time than it will now. It is important to take into account that there is now a narrowing in relation to the existing industry agreement. The Minister of Culture said that the industry agreed on the length of the fixed price period. In my post I said that it was by directive in the so-called Ministerial Letter that this was negotiated, and after the Competition Authority had made strong calls for more competition and more deregulation. The Council of State also said that one could not show that there are some differences between countries that have fixed prices and countries that have free prices. The Goethe Institute comes, as I said, with evaluations other than that. If, for example: look to Sweden, it turns out that there are now fewer bookstores, especially district bookstores, and fewer university bookstores. My claim is that as long as the book business agreement is based on an exception to the competition law, there will be a pressure on the book industry. A fixed price law does not mean that a detractor decides. They can negotiate important things, such as: subscription schemes and such, which are very important for the development of the book industry. I just note that we disagree here. So said the Council of State evaluation. It becomes very important what kind of assumptions you put at the bottom of that evaluation, and that one does not leave that evaluation to environments that have decided in advance that free price is the answer. It is important to emphasise that literature policy must be a cultural policy, that literature policy must include both literature and literature, that literature policy must be a language policy, and that literature policy must be a policy of democracy and strengthen freedom of expression. I would encourage the Council of State to confirm that there are such assumptions she will put in place when the evaluation is to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e242	To start with the last first: Yes, it is quite clear that literature policy is cultural policy. I've said that many times, and it also says the government. But when it comes to competition supervision, it is under the Ministry of Modernisation, and so we need to work closely together to arrive at good results that also take care of cultural policy, which is the most important thing here. It must also be at the bottom of the evaluation. One must have consumer interests, one must have author interests, and one must have publisher interests. The whole field should be part of what is to be at the bottom of the evaluation to be performed. Since the interpellant again raises the requirement for a fixed price law, I would like to remind you once again that not even the industry itself wants a fixed price law. When it was said here that the industry proposed 1 May of the year following the release year as a date for the issue of the free price, the date was not a directive of the two ministers at all. That date they arrived at themselves, and we've fixed the date in the regulations that are now being made. So to say that there was a directive from us is not right. When it comes to Sweden, they have fewer bookstores, as the interpellant says. But they have a full release, and that's what we don't want, because we want to have district bookstores around. That's why we're on the decisions that are made, and that's why we want a variety, we want one to be able to buy books both in Hammerfest, Alta and the Churches and Oslo. We've learned from Sweden and the free price system they have, and so we won't let it go. I'm probably feeling that in many ways we're very close to the goal. I don't believe in a fixed price that we're going to have a fixed price in all stories, but we have to have a period when the fixed price is going to be important to me. So the evaluation is important to learn from this in terms of what will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e253	Let me first say that it is very good that the interpellant has made sure that the Minister of Culture now gets involved in literature policy in this way, for so far it has worked as this has been primarily the minister of modernisation's table. The impression has been that the policy lines have been put up to get as cheap books as possible rather than width, literature policy, cultural policy. It's no wonder that people like Lars Roar Langslet go out and protest and think that being a value conservative doesn't mean that anything that has value should be counted on a calculator. It is also worth noting that in the Right-Handed Bærum there are now plans to shut down the library, and the only way to get the library operated in one of Norway's largest municipalities is if volunteers go in and take over. It's sad that you don't have a greater sense of responsibility for the cultural and value of our literature. There's a difference between running a democracy and running a colonial business. There's a difference between selling books and selling bananas. This is where we have to have a conscious literature and cultural policy to succeed. And we have succeeded very well in Norway. We have had a very successful literature policy. We have a big width in the releases. We have a high sale. We have a lot of readers. And the question is, why change something that has been so successful? Even the most successful and most selling authors, such as Lars Saabye Christensen or Åsne Seierstad, published books with a few hundred in circulation before they met with these bestsellers. If we had not had publishers, if we had not had business agreements, we would not have had a system that would have allowed them to develop, to publish books that had a narrow audience, nor would we have had any «the bookstore in Kabul» or «the half brother» published in Norwegian publishers. Now we see that step by step this is threatened, and it is a very distorted description of reality which comes here from the Minister of Culture, because the industry has increasingly fought against the frameworks provided by the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Modernisation, the pressure that has been for liberalisation. Fortunately, in the last round, the government has retreated and made the agreement a little less bad than it would otherwise have been. As a result, perhaps a relief has been drawn in the industry that is now being produced as a connection. There was no connection in the industry that the book clubs would no longer have an opportunity to offer a special discount. There was no premise that the fixed price should have a discount system that allowed the large chains to compete against several of the district bookstores. There was no agreement on how long the fixed price period would be. This is cultural policy. It's literature policy. Sometimes we have to make sure that the market is not the only thing that exists, but that we have other and more important goals to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e264	The Council of State has presented in an excellent way the framework we now have for a well-functioning book industry in Norway. We have found solutions that I believe are well balanced and that meet central and important cultural policy needs. I'm not going to go into the whole set of instruments on which the book industry and politics are based. It's been explained by the Council of State. However, it is clear that both in the assessment of how to do things in Norway, and when we compare with other countries, it is important to look at the whole range of instruments we have, for example. the question of purchasing systems, which is a uniquely good system in our country. Many of the countries that have fixed price laws do not have the broad range of instruments that we have. On the other hand, they resort to fixed-price arrangements as a general approach in their policies, and I think it is actually less targeted than the arrangements we have. The fixed price we're now adding, is also in a broad sense quite long, up to 1 1/2 years. It gives the publishers very good space to handle the times and place their releases in a good way. What I think is the most important thing that has been taken care of is that we have now put in place a stable system for royalty rates. Making sure that we promote good authors in our country is perhaps the most important thing, both in terms of having readers – readers asking for good books – and in relation to language policy, by having a wide range of writers working on our language, who communicate our language and who communicate our culture. I think that is very nice and some of the most important things that have been taken care of. With regard to the interpellant's fear of the bookstore's position, I cannot help but wonder, because the biggest problem for the bookstores has perhaps been the combination of changed ownership in the bookstore and the fact that they have had an almost cartel-like agreement that has pushed the bookstores at a competitive price. In this way, it seems a little hollow when one looks at the fixed price and industry agreement as the answer to all the problems both in bookstores and in and of course also in relation to the trade books. I think it's going to be a little ostrich policy -- to stick your head in the sand. These problems are about much greater social movements than what we can attribute to the industry agreement. Norwegian literature goes sour. We produce books that never before. We read like never before. It is important that we now have a policy that follows the time, so that we do not slow this down by pursuing a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e279	First, I would like to comment on what the representative, Valle, is bringing forward as horror and horror experiences, for example. in the United Kingdom, Sweden and Finland, where free-of-charge is available. I have so much as a hobby to visit bookstores in all the cities of a country I travel in. Last week I was in London, and had a fantastic experience in two huge bookstores in London. That there will be fewer publications and fewer booksellers in England, as the representative Valle claims, I think I have to be at the top. There were millions of book titles. They had plenty to hang out with. So these horror scenarios coming from the Socialist Left Party, I think we're going to bring a pinch of salt. On 1 May this year, the new book business agreement entered into force. The progressing party did not really want a book industry agreement at all, but sees that the agreement currently in force can actually contribute to giving us the quality and breadth and diversity of content and genres in both professional and beauty literature to which the representative Valle refers. I do not know if the interpellant has been in the bookstore here in Norway after the new industry agreement came into force, but I can assure you that it is a pleasure. In fact, it also gives them poor advice about buying the books in question. That must be what the Socialist Left wants: book out to the people! Now we've heard about the authors, about the publishers, and about the concerns about the bookstores. Yes, but the main concern of introducing a law on fixed prices must be that the book does not reach the consumer because the consumer cannot afford to buy it. Green prices, lower prices, all the better for the consumer, have resulted in the new book contract. The fact that the Competition Authority looks at the different conditions surrounding the book business agreement is hardly an attack, rather a security. We know that there are different owner configurations in this industry that can – I say can – seem unfortunate. The publishers own both book clubs and bookstores, and the consequences may soon arise. When fixed price laws are proposed by SV, I actually have to ask myself who has earned it. Book prices have not stood still in the last few years. When the price of a literary book scrapes over 500 kroner, the book is not for everyone anymore. The Progress Party believes in the free price of the book. We believe in free and independent bookstores, which unfortunately almost no longer occur in Norway. And most importantly, we believe in a free cultural life, free and independent of political governance. There is not necessarily a conflict between good literature policy and competition in the book market. Market pricing, as has been seen in Sweden and Finland, is likely to lead to stronger growth in the number of titles.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e299	First of all, I would like to say that it is positive that the Government now seems to make proposals for a new purchasing system for the case trial, which the Government Party voted against when we deal with the budget in the autumn of 2004. Norway is one of the most widely read countries in the world. Until now, we have had a wide range of quality books that have been easily accessible throughout the country. I would like to underline that. The industry has had stable and long-term framework conditions, and the previous book business agreement has helped us to have what I would call long-term cultural policy goals for literature. What I miss in the Council of State is a professional basis for getting this new agreement. I can't see that the Council of State came along, and I haven't seen it in previous articles in the media either. On the contrary, a number of questions arise. There's a lot of people in Sweden. Before going away from the fixed price, they had 800 bookstores. That number has been reduced to 500-600. That is a significant reduction. When the Culture Committee heard about the big business message on culture and nutrition, it was informed that Sweden has introduced state aid to the district bookshops. It's a cross of thought for me. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether it is also concerned that the new agreement could weaken the financial basis for the district bookshops. This would be a major loss if your availability were to be downgraded by adding bookstores. Norway is a small country, with a scattered composition. When a country that Germany, with about 82 million inhabitants, can have a fixed price, it is alarming that Norway departs from what at least the Central Party seems to have been a well-functioning agreement. The Norwegian Bookstores Association has also expressed their concern about the bookstores we have in the districts. I would also like to ask questions if the Minister of Culture is not concerned about the relevance of neo-Norwegian literature. The new agreement will make best selling books cheaper, while other books will be weakened and thus may be in danger of disappearing. And that is to say, the New Norse literature can be at risk. Finally, I would like as much as I can encourage the Minister to immediately start the evaluation process that is announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e318	I would like to conclude again that the prerequisite for a fixed price to be an important literary policy instrument, along with other instruments, is that the fixed price lasts for a period of time. This fixed price period has been cut every time an industry agreement has been negotiated. This will be the case as long as it is based on an exception to the Competition Act, and therefore I believe that it is necessary to take control of this. As Trond Giske said, there is no consensus about this period and has not been in the industry either. At least I've heard a lot of signals other than those government councils referred to. Valuable Conservative Francis Sejersted said in the Sunday newspaper in a debate with the Minister for Modernization that he was deeply concerned that the market forces had now been too absorbed in the book industry, and I fully agree with him. To the Olemic Thommessen I would say that we agree that it is important to have more instruments, but we are therefore a small country, and that is why we have to make sure that we have all the instruments in place, including the fixed price. Olemic Thommessen also said that it was important that a fixed royalty rate had now been fixed for the authors. Yes, I agree. But I have also recorded that the basis of the royalty rates is now being negotiated, because it is precisely so that when the basis is weakened, the royalty rates will also be weakened. Greater concentration and greater competition do not lead to greater breadth and do not lead to greater diversity, rather to greater diversity. In free-priced countries, looking at the book diversity as a whole has not led to lower prices. It also shows an evaluation by the Council of Culture. Yes, it has led to lower prices for best sellers, but it has also led to fewer publishers, fewer authors and fewer bookstores. I have no doubt that Karin Woldseth was impressed by the beautiful bookshops she was in London. But the evaluation by the Cultural Council shows that it has led to fewer bookstores, so if she had been a little outside London, she would have seen it too. It is important to look at literature policy as a cultural policy, as a language policy and as an important democracy policy, and therefore I am now interpreting the signals here so that what might become a government constellation for the autumn will have a more offensive literature policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e331	Trond Giske was pleased that the interpellant had got the Minister of Culture on the road in this debate. Then I just have to say that I have noticed that Trond Giske's way of working is populist play in the media. My way of working is actually trying to get a good result. I have worked a lot with this agreement, and I am very happy with this result. I think it's much more important to work internally to get a good result than to go out with populist play. But there I see that Trond Giske and I consider this differently. So ask Trond Giske why we're going to change something that has been successful. Why didn't the industry itself say that we could only pass on the agreement we had? If the industry itself had looked down, discussed and become a few about passing on the agreement they had, it would have been easy for the government to give a clear signal to it. But the industry itself has not said that we should carry on without change what has been successful, because they also saw that a need for change. If any new government wants to go back to the old agreement, it will do so against the industry's wishes. So to the purchasing system for prose, as it was said that we voted against. From the government's side, it's important that we have funds when we vote for something in the storeroom. I have noticed that Trond Giske has received this as a battle cause after he came into opposition. When he joined the government, there was no suggestion from the government that a procurement procedure be introduced for the trial. Those who have fought for the cause have fought for her for many years, but it was this government that made the proposal. I'm glad. It's a result of hard work. Then there are several people who take Sweden as an example, both in terms of price and in relation to bookshops. We can do this. That's because we haven't entered into the same agreement that they have in Sweden. We've agreed to an offensive deal with a lot of public action to have a literature industry, a book industry, that's still going to give us live literature all around the country. That's why we haven't picked up Sweden's glove. So it was said from the Center Party that we have gone away from the fixed price. No, we don't. We've agreed at a fixed price. We have a fixed price for a period, and then one can discuss how long he should be. The industry asked for May 1st. I know the authors want him longer, but when a collective industry came to us, they asked for 1 May. We've given them that. So, for new Norse literature. There we also have a system of direct support for the Samlag. It's a support that this government has added, because we saw that the Society needed a better economy to make sure that we have good literature in new Norse. I have to say that I am very happy about what we see happening around the bookstores and in the literature field. It's a lot of enthusiasm after we finished our work and got an agreement. I sincerely hope that any new government will not tear down what we have now arranged for us to continue to have a great situation for literature in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e349	Then we have finished dealing with case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e365	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e383	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e401	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e419	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e437	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e445	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e455	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Eirin Faldet, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 25 April 2005: ‘The Government requests the maintenance of the Equality Centre and the establishment of a Competence Centre for Ethnic Equality, with sufficient resources to cover the tasks and relate to their competences.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e474	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Eirin Faldet, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 25 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the legal driving role of the Equality Centre and to propose a similar statutory driving role for a Competence Centre for Ethnic Equality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e493	The vote will take place on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, on a proposal from May Hansen, representing the Group of the Party of European Socialists, submitted by the meeting of 25 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the law on the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Department so that it is the Stortinget that appoints the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman for 4 years at a time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e512	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 25 April 2005: ‘The Government asks the Government to incorporate the UN Women’s Convention into the Human Rights Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e531	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of Mr Ola T. Lånke on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 25 April 2005: ‘The Government requests the appropriate return after the examination of the notified notification of the power and democracy investigation with an assessment of the possible incorporation of the UN Women’s Convention into the Human Rights Act.’ The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre will now support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-12.ana.ud2322e557	There is no record.
