ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e49	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Heidi Grande Røys. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e69	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, and the Centre Party, the Left and the Coastal Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e78	Discrimination means that people don't get their dreams fulfilled. They are prevented from using their capabilities and facilities in the best possible way. This is illustrated in a fine little poem by Langston Hughes, «A Dream Deferred»: 'What happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry up like a rain in the sun? Or sticks like a sor-- and then run? Does it smell like rats? Or crust and sigh over--like a syrupy sweat? Maybe it just looks like a heavy load. Or does it explode?" The fight against discrimination is about equal rights also having equal opportunities. All shall have equal opportunities irrespective of ethnic origin, religious belief, sex or sexual orientation. Society must not prevent dreams from being fulfilled. Working against racism and discrimination and for non-discrimination requires continuous action. Persons with a minority background currently enjoy the same formal rights as the rest of the population. However, it is necessary to take action to ensure that everyone has the same real opportunities to participate in society and to use their resources. The work against discrimination and racism must be seen in this context. The Christian People's Party believes it is very important that we have a law that helps prevent all forms of discrimination. However, we are concerned that efforts in areas that have so far been prioritised and which have already been well-managed by law and practice should not be weakened. The proposition we are discussing today follows the recommendation of a cross-ministerial working group on a common enforcement system for discrimination on grounds of gender and ethnicity. This report forms part of the follow-up to NOU 2002:12 Legal protection against ethnic discrimination – the Holgersen Committee. The legislative proposal contains rules on the organisation, functions, competence and procedure of the enforcement system. The proposal proposes that the Equality Ombudsman, the Equality Centre and the Centres against Ethnic Discrimination, SMED, be brought together in a new joint body: the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. At the same time, it is proposed to set up a related appeal body with decision-making powers. The new ombudsman is to enforce the Equality Act, the Discrimination Act, the Equal Treatment Chapter of the Labour Environment Act and the prohibitions of discrimination in housing laws. In addition, the Ombudsman shall ensure that Norwegian law and administrative practices comply with the obligations of Norway under the UN Convention on Women and the United Nations Convention on Racial Discrimination. At the same time, the ombudsman shall carry out driving and guidance tasks to contribute to increased equality and equal treatment. In order to enable the Ombudsman to care for all groups according to actual needs, it is important that adequate resources are allocated. The Christian People's Party will contribute to the budgetary procedure for the autumn. The Ombudsman must have expertise in group-specific discrimination while building on cross-discrimination expertise. In this work, it is important that the Ombudsman has close and good cooperation with all groups’ organisations and other actors working for relevant interests. I am pleased that a broad majority supports the Government's proposal for a common enforcement system for discrimination on different grounds. I think the new enforcement system will help to give users a simpler everyday life. They don't have to deal with more than one instance. At the same time, a common enforcement system provides opportunities for the transfer of competences and the exchange of experience between professional environments on different grounds of discrimination. The background to the establishment of a common enforcement system is current legislation and Ot.prp. No 33 for 2004–2005, which was treated in this room last week. However, a broad majority of the Committee has opened up the possibility of extending the scope of the enforcement system to a number of different grounds of discrimination, and we in the Christian People's Party are attending the Committee's position in this respect. In addition to enforcing the prohibition of discrimination, the Ombudsman shall also be a driver of a society with equal opportunities. The driving role includes the influence of attitudes and behaviour, support and guidance functions, as well as the development of skills and knowledge. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have made proposals to maintain the Equality Centre and to establish a centre of competence for ethnic equality, with sufficient resources to cover the tasks and to link them to their competences. The same parties also propose to maintain the legal driving role of the Equality Centre and propose a similar statutory driving role for an ethnic equality centre. These proposals shall not be supported by a majority of the Committee. The Christian People's Party believes it is appropriate to work closely together between the law enforcement and the perpetrator. The aim is to get an agent who is both a strong law enforcement agent and a strong and independent driver. I think these two functions can help mutually strengthen each other. Principles and practices in both anti-discrimination and perpetrators have clear similarities, regardless of the grounds for discrimination. It is also important that the driving role is anchored both in the experience of the law enforcement system and in the research environment. Complaints will provide an important basis for driving. The examination of the specific cases will provide a good basis for assessing which areas should be given priority in driving. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the Ombudsman must find a good balance between law enforcement and enforcement. Both the law enforcement role and the driving role are laid down in Section 3, and it is important to ensure that the driving work does not lose the struggle for the Ombudsman’s resources. One of the main aims of the creation of the new Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Department is to create a low-threshold offer where individuals who consider themselves to be subject to discrimination can seek and have their rights respected. It is important to ensure that the services provided by these bodies are equivalent to the entire population of the country, irrespective of their place of residence. It is also important that the threshold to contact is low. No request may be made in writing. It will rule out that functional illiterates can also be assisted by the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has to go a long way in guiding all kinds of cases regardless of how the complaint is made. That matter should be provided with advice and guidance on how to pursue the case. In order for the Ombudsman to obtain legitimacy, it is essential that the addressees should be heard. Ethnic minorities today have their own legal aid offer at the Centre against ethnic discrimination. After the merger, these groups will no longer have their own legal aid but will have to apply for free legal aid in the same way as others. It is therefore important that the enforcement work of the Ombudsman be supplemented by an opportunity for free action under Section 17 of the Law on Legal Aid, as proposed by the Government. Free action should be granted in cases of discrimination or ill-treatment, where the matter has a well-being interest in the case in question. The Socialist Left has proposed to amend the law on the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Department so that it is the Stortingen that appoints the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman for four years at a time. This proposal shall not be supported by a majority of the Committee. Stortinget appoints an ombudsman: Stortinget’s Ombudsman for the administration. The rest of our agents are appointed by the Government. This is in line with the Basic Law principle of power distribution, which confers the executive power to the very Government. SV's proposal involves something completely new in the area of Stortingen's work, and is, in the view of the Christian People's Party, both unfortunate and inappropriate. The Discrimination Officer, as well as other agents, shall be free to express his opinion. It's indisputable. However, it is important that an ombudsman anchors, as far as possible, statements and plays in a good professional, research-based foundation. For this reason, it is important that the Ombudsman connects a network of legal advisers with competence in their field, in this context discrimination. Discrimination legislation is currently an important theme in several European countries. In Germany, the red-green government recently proposed the introduction of a comprehensive anti-discrimination law. A common enforcement and enforcement system provides great benefits in the work on equality and against discrimination in society. It is therefore great that other European countries have also chosen to establish a similar enforcement system. It shows a stronger European effort in the fight against discrimination and non-discrimination. Finally, I would just like to recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e136	The Government has proposed the law on the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Department. The law lays down rules for the organisation, functions, competence and proceedings of the Ombudsman and the denominator. The proposal brings together the Equality Centre, parts of the Centres against Ethnic Discrimination and the Equality Ombudsman into a common enforcement and enforcement system. The Labour Party believes that the choice of means and form of organisation of representation must be put into a principle context of how attitudes are affected and power exercised. Public authorities are responsible for ensuring equal treatment and contributing to combating prejudices and negative attitudes in society. Clear laws and regulations and an effective enforcement system are therefore important. However, it is at least equally important to ensure that there are also active drivers with good competence, who contribute to changes in attitudes and who actively participate in the debate in public space. Changes in attitudes will contribute to a positive social development and to the achievement of policy objectives, such as: real equality. The Workers' Party believes that the Government of the Proposition takes too lightly on such fundamental discussions. It is also important to see the need for protection of a number of different groups in a context when developing a common enforcement apparatus. This is partly the case in the proposal submitted, but the Government has, for example: not chosen to wait for the suspension of the Syse Committee, where one assesses legal instruments against discrimination against disabled persons. As regards the enforcement component, the Workers’ Party supports the proposal to establish a common equality and discrimination mandate and a gender and discrimination heading. It is important to have an effective enforcement system to ensure that laws and regulations are complied with. A common enforcement system will also be able to exploit the competences and experience of the different grounds for discrimination. As regards the driving role, the Workers' Party considers that it cannot be merged with the enforcement part. The enforcement work can quickly be overshadowed — and thus weakened. The Labour Party also believes that there may be a conflict between the objective enforcement role and a more job-intensive driving role. The enforcement role may be called into question when the same body operates system criticism and is actively participating in the societal debate. Both the Gender Equality Centre, the Association for Women and Gender Research in Norway, the Source, Women’s Universities, the Crisis Centre Secretariat, the Human-Ethical Federation and the Church Council support one enforcement body but will have the driving role in separate bodies. The Labour Party therefore disagrees that the Equality Centre should be merged with the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. We believe that today's gender equality centre works well. There are also more cases today than the Ombudsman does, for example. on issues related to violence against women. The Labour Party will stress that other actors are also important in driving and that these too need to be strengthened. With regard to the driving role of ethnic equality, the Holgersen Committee – in NOU 2002:12 – proposes to establish a dedicated centre of competence for ethnic equality to operate with knowledge development, driving, attitude and behaviour impacts, guidance, documentation and monitoring. The working party supports this. Such a centre will have broader functions and tasks than the current Centre on Ethnic Discrimination, SMED. SMED is currently in charge of a case-by-case function, with legal assistance and individual proceedings. Legal aid is currently the heaviest part of the Centre’s business. This suggests that the Centre be merged with the Ombudsman, with the exception of the external information work, which may be part of a new centre of expertise. SMED itself is in favour of a merger. The working party would stress the importance of the need for the centres to have good competence in the best possible performance of the driving role. The Labour Party also considers that the driver function of other groups that are discriminated against should be further investigated. In particular, it is important to involve stakeholders and user organisations in this work. The Workers' Party will highlight the gender equality work done by the country's two women's universities, the Women's University North, the Steigen in the Nordic countries, and the Women's University at Løten, in Hedmark. We believe that there is a need for regional actors that can drive gender equality towards municipalities and businesses. We also believe that neither ethnic discrimination nor gender discrimination is a major urban phenomenon. We therefore believe that regional equality work across the country is important and that regional actors should therefore be strengthened. Women’s universities should cooperate more closely with key gender actors, thus being an extended arm in the regions. The 2003 UN Convention on Women's Rights noted that gender equality work in Norway is characterised by centralisation and expressed concern that this would weaken the gender equality work in the districts. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether there is no need to set up two such centres of excellence, one in the north and one in the south, in order to strengthen gender equality across the country – thus also strengthening women's universities in the north and the south. I would like to address the proposals to which the Labour Party, together with the Socialist Left and the Central Party, are the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e164	The representative Eirin Fallet has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e167	Many believe that Norway has come a long way in the important work on gender equality and against discrimination. In many ways we also have that, but it's important not just to be satisfied with almost reaching the goal. There are still many people in our society who experience discrimination, either on the basis of sex, skin color or sexual orientation or for other reasons. For those people who know such discrimination on the body, it is important that the work of a more equal society continues with full strength. The government is promoting Ot.prp. No 34 for 2004-2005 proposals for a common enforcement system across grounds of discrimination. It is proposed that the Equality Ombudsman, the Equality Centre and the Centres against Ethnic Discrimination be brought together in a new joint body – the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. The gender equality centre, with its professional independence and independence, has shown itself to be an active driver of gender equality and has been thematically characterised by a broad range of violence against women, the role of men and gender and power. Similarly, Centres against ethnic discrimination have identified themselves as an active body in their efforts to ensure protection against discrimination based on creed, skin color, national or ethnic origin. Bringing these functions together with the law enforcement authority The Equality Ombudsman will, in the opinion of the Right, mean a number of positive ring-effects in the work on gender equality and against discrimination. Firstly, coordination will increase the availability and visibility of the Ombudsman. The objective that users, from individuals, businesses, organisations and public authorities, should not have to deal with more authorities than is necessary, seems to us to be an important part of the work. Users are put at the centre of this process by making it easier and less bureaucratic to get help when such a situation occurs. Furthermore, we are in favour of the professional synergy that ensures increased quality and improved ability to deal with cases of discrimination on a number of grounds. We have great faith that a common enforcement system means greater opportunities for the transfer of experience between the different grounds for discrimination, which could contribute to a broader and more comprehensive understanding of how discrimination is expressed in society and how it can be combated. A larger and more comprehensive apparatus will provide a wider range of skilled professionals, which is also positive in recruiting and retaining highly skilled labour. A third good argument for combining the driving and enforcement role of discrimination is a more efficient use of resources. This applies not only to the professional resources, which I have already had, but also to the economies of scale of co-location and the benefits of managing common internal and administrative tasks. Rational and efficient operation is important in order to release the necessary resources for the essential professional part of the work to be carried out by the Ombudsman. The right also supports what was said by the representative Eirin Fallet in relation to the women's universities. I also refer to our comments in the setting. There are several teams who raised questions about the problem by collecting the enforcement role and the driving role in one and the same representative. This theme has been widely discussed both in the government's legislative proposals, in the consultation round and among the key actors in the work on equality and discrimination. Some believe that the driving role could become less visible and lack legitimacy when it is co-located and coordinated with the enforcement role. Furthermore, some point out that unexplained role conflicts between the enforcement and enforcement role may weaken the credibility of the new Ombudsman as a law enforcement agent. I think this has been a broad and good debate, which has in many ways highlighted important aspects of the organisation of work. When the majority of the Committee supports the proposal for a common enforcement and enforcement system against discrimination on different grounds, it is because we have great faith that the positive effects of the merger will give much consideration to the possible disadvantages. We would nevertheless stress that the Ombudsman must maintain a balance between law enforcement and the driving role, but we have full confidence that this can be done in an excellent way. We also believe that the driving function will be strengthened by closer cooperation with the law enforcement system, and point to the positive anchoring of the driving device in particular in the experience of law enforcement and research environments. Another point that has been widely discussed in both hearing opinions and in the general debate has been the question of whether the Government's proposals only take into account the protection of discrimination for some clearly defined groups. Against this background, the Right-wing Government calls for this issue to be addressed with a view to developing general anti-discrimination rules and, where appropriate, the design of comprehensive legislation in this area. Norwegian legislation can be seen as incomplete because discrimination can also take place on grounds other than those already enshrined in the law, such as racism, gender or religious affiliation. I would also like to stress that any single legislation in this area must not weaken the protection afforded by specific legislation today. A future investigation must therefore illustrate the relationship between general rules and specific protection on a defined basis of discrimination. Our main objective is to ensure that legislation takes into account that discrimination on a general basis must be prohibited. This will ensure greater protection against discrimination, irrespective of the cause of discrimination. The important work to promote gender equality in society and to protect citizens from discrimination, in my view, is given a stronger position as a result of the discrimination law we adopt today. We therefore recommend that the Government's proposals be adopted, in line with the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e193	As noted in comments both in this case and in many other cases dealt with in this Chamber over the years, the Progress Party has a completely different view of equality policy than the other parties. The Progress Party is fundamental to the creation of specific measures by the public – special laws, quota arrangements, representations, etc. – to treat according to gender. We're the followers of what we call a real equality, that is. a society where there is no difference between people on the basis of their gender. We want a minimum law, such as: the environmental protection law, which states that equal pay is to be paid for equal work and that no one can be discriminated against because of, for example: a pregnancy. That should hold. It's sad to see that the majority still adheres to a gender equality policy that has its roots in the 1970s. For example, we see this in the case that concerns 40 pst. of one gender in corporate governance, and we have seen it in the past when this principle was introduced into elected bodies. There we see, among other things: that the 40 pst. compulsion leads to a woman such as are highly involved in health and social matters, may be forced to sit in the main technical committee, while a man who may be interested in school matters is forced into the technical sector. We have full confidence that today's modern and capable women are doing well without quota. The struggle for women's positions, for example: in the world of work is won over the next 10 to 20 years without any quota or special measures — not because of the quota that has existed, or because of the extension of the law, but because universities and colleges per. Today has 60 pst. girls, and these are the business leaders of tomorrow and the leaders of tomorrow in the public sector. They are skilled and smart and do not need special treatment. We think it's a downgrading of people to give them a job or a position because of e.g. sex. Similarly, when it comes to other groups, whether it's gay, ethnic minorities, or religious minorities. As long as there is talk of healthy and workable people, the Progress Party is opposed to special measures. If I run a computer company and need people, and a competent, cozy and work-in-home homophile Turkish Muslim is looking for a job, and I'm not hiring this person, it's me that's a jerk. And in business, competition leads to the long-term loss of competition by employers who behave foolishly. We are therefore fundamentally opposed to the specific measures, quotas and ombudsman arrangements. We want to take away most of what is of the laws and appropriations in this field, whether it's about appropriations for gay organisations, equal opportunities centres or immigrant interest organisations. It's absolutely right that you want to have your organisations and associations to talk about their case, but we don't realize that it's a public task to fund associations that are for healthy, working people. However, we realize that we are alone about this in Stortinget. We have therefore chosen to give our subsidiary support to the Government's proposal to merge the existing agencies in this area, in the hope that it will in the long term be easier to wind up these businesses. As regards voting, we will vote in favour of the reorganization, but not for the further extension of the law outlined in paragraph 2 on page 31 of the vote, column No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the end of the day, I would like to say that I think it is a tendency for all public debates on discrimination in Norway to have a certain hollowness. One discusses things that will solve in the long term, but one does not grasp what is really a gender policy challenge in Norwegian society. We in the Progress Party are calling for the political majority in this Chamber to begin beating the table against fundamentalist Muslim environments where there is a total lack of equality. Women are subjected to violence and rape, which is the right word for a forced marriage or an arranged marriage – it is raped. We call for this to emerge today as the central and important political debate on equality in the future. But it doesn't seem as if this is politically correct, or if you have the courage to take up this discussion, probably because you're afraid to dissuade groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e212	The Socialist Left supports the establishment of a common enforcement system against discrimination based on sex and ethnicity. A common enforcement system will allow for the transfer of competences and the exchange of experience between professional environments within different discrimination bases. It'll also make it easier for users to deal with one instance. It is important to ensure good protection rules in relation to the different grounds for discrimination. Gender discrimination is the most common discrimination in Norway and must in no way be deprived at the expense of a common enforcement system. The Socialist Left Party will extend the enforcement apparatus to cover a variety of discrimination bases. Active further efforts must be made to create a law that ensures that all discrimination in Norway is equally protected under Norwegian law, and that discrimination against disabled persons under investigation by the Syse Committee and discrimination against sexual orientation, age, etc. must be included as soon as possible. It must be a clear objective that all discrimination should be covered by parallel laws, with equal penalties and penalties providing equal legal protection against all discrimination, irrespective of the basis of discrimination. Norway must support the protection of discrimination in relation to ethnic discrimination and we will refer to Ot.prp. No 33 for 2004-2005, where it is demonstrated that current legal protection against discrimination is inadequate and that there are scattered provisions in the legislation applying to individual areas – employment, housing law and criminal law. The Socialist Left totally disagrees with the fact that the new gender equality and discrimination Ombudsman should include both the supervision of the law and a more critical driving role. We believe that the Equality Centre should maintain its role as a driver and that a corresponding centre of excellence for ethnic equality should be established, built on SMED. We believe that the proposal will weaken the drive for equality. It is important that we also have a function as an independent and independent driver in the future, and that the driving function is statutory. Over time, Norway has developed an equality system with a clear distinction between law enforcement and an independent active driving role that is unique in the international context. We get international praise for this. We need to focus more on and strengthen gender discrimination in Norway. We have one of Europe’s most gender-based labour markets, which has led to a slow pace in the development of equal pay in Norway. Where there is a high proportion of women in work, there is a poor pay. Women's representation in government has gone back in the last year, and there are women who are doing a lot of care in this country. It is therefore important to strengthen the driving role and maintain it independently and legally. I would like to stress the importance of the free role of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, and stress that it is not the task of Government or the Stortinge to dictate how the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman solves its ombudsman role. The Ombudsman is responsible for promoting interests and rights in all areas of society. The Ombudsman must have a free, independent and independent role in relation to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the administration of others, other public bodies and the public. The Socialist Left does not agree that there are limits to how politically ongoing an ombudsman can be without losing legitimacy as an independent and objective enforcement authority, as stated in the vote. The free and independent position is best ensured by the appointment of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman by the Stortinget. SV therefore supports proposals that the Stortinget ask the Government to amend the law, so that it is the Stortinget that appoints the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman for four years at a time. This is entirely in line with what we have also said in the past in relation to the Children’s Ombudsman. In this setting, too, the free role of the Ombudsman is limited. I think it's serious, and I hope the Council of State says something about it in its article. I would like to point out that in Ot.prp. No 34 for 2004-2005 in several of the paragraphs of the legal text use the terms ‘homofile lay, lifestyle or orientation’. It's unclear what to add to the different terms in the legal text. I am very pleased that the Committee proposes that the terms ‘homophile laying, lifestyle or orientation’ should be changed to ‘homophile orientation’ in the legal text. The gender equality work done by our two women's universities, the Women's University of the North and the Women's University of the Lone, is important and necessary. There is a need for regional actors who can be drivers in relation to municipalities and businesses in the gender equality area around the country. Regional equality work across the country is important and regional actors should be strengthened. The majority of the Committee would like women's universities to cooperate more closely with other key gender actors. I want to use the end of my post to point out that there is a major imbalance in the Ombudsman's role between basic sex and ethnicity on the one hand and sexual orientation on the other. It is unfortunate that the new ombudsman will only be responsible for sexual orientation in terms of employment and housing. This means that those who have been discriminated against on the housing market and on the labour market for sexual orientation can contact the Ombudsman for assistance, but in all other areas of society the Ombudsman will have no mandate. This is inexorable, and may in itself appear discriminatory. Therefore, the Ombudsman must start a process of including all grounds of discrimination in its scope in all areas of society as soon as possible. Discrimination protection is not satisfactory today, and we now need to work to extend the work to all grounds of discrimination in all areas of society. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e238	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e241	Discrimination law is an important law in itself, but is not new in the same way as the discrimination law itself is. This law provides a framework for the enforcement of the law equivalent to that laid down in the Equality Act of its annex. All parties, except the Progress Party, support the Government's proposal to establish a common enforcement system against discrimination. The fact that gender equality and discrimination will mainly work on discrimination based on gender and ethnicity is one of the reasons for this. in the legal basis. Different forms of discrimination are given different levels of protection in Norwegian legislation, as long as the Government has not wanted to create a general law on discrimination. It is the Equal Opportunities Office, the Equality Complaints Board, the Equality Centre and the Centres against ethnic discrimination which, according to the Government’s proposal, will be part of a new common enforcement system. Although the Centre Party supports a gender equality and discrimination ban, we do not support the Government's proposal to merge enforcement roles and driving roles, neither in gender equality nor in areas of ethnic discrimination. Together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we believe that it cannot be combined that the ban should be both supervised and taken decisions on the basis of the law and have a driving role in the same area, as for example. may raise criticism of the law to enforce and must defend in decisions for as long as the law is in force. The central part is also concerned about the distribution of resources between the enforcement role by law and the driving role. Both the gender equality issue and the Equality Centre have reported increasing progress, and in the event of a lack of resources, it would be natural to have to give priority to legal issues rather than to further developing gender equality or discrimination. It is by no means difficult to imagine role conflicts between the role of the more objective enforcement role that the laws provide, and the more positioning driving role towards the legislator, the Stortinget, and, of course, the Government, which makes the legislative proposals. Such an unsolved role conflict could weaken the new equality and discrimination mandate as law enforcement. The centre is therefore in favour of the Equality Centre retaining its role as a driving force in equality and creating a corresponding centre of excellence for ethnic equality, as proposed by the Holgersen Committee. They shall carry out knowledge development, driver activity, behavioral influence, guidance, documentation and monitoring. The driving role also requires a more varied use of tools, such as media play, organisation and participation in seminars and conferences, lecture activities, publication of information and statistics, newsletters, journals and distribution work. The Equality Centre and the corresponding Centres for Ethnic Discrimination go further than the Equal Opportunities Office did, and the new Equality and Discrimination Office can and will do – that is, it applies, among other things. sexualised vald, vald against women and the community. A distinction between the driving and enforcement roles is also supported by a number of hearing instances. The Centre Party has therefore put forward proposals together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party to hold the Equality Centre and to establish a centre of competence for ethnic equality. We have also added that they need sufficient resources to cover their tasks and to associate themselves with their competences. Then I am quite incomprehensible that the government has proposed that the order should have a government of its own. Statskonsult itself cannot recommend such an ombudsman with more than one director without a director, as the Equality Environment has worked for now. I agree with the Equality Ombudsman, who has stated that the establishment of a board of directors can limit independence and weaken the integrity of equality and discrimination. It is important that we get a strong and independent mandate that dares to challenge and dare to speak out critically, even if the criticism is directed towards big business and government or is directed against a political party. I would strongly warn against the fact that sitting governments interfered in their position within their territories, as we saw in the event that the Barneombode had issued statements about cash support that some parties did not like. Finally, I would like to stress that the Centre Party supports all the positive things that have been said when it comes to the two women's universities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e262	The proposal to establish a common enforcement system for equality and against discrimination is based on the Government’s desire to enforce the Discrimination Code in a good way for users, which means establishing an independent, central body capable of working as a whole for equality and against discrimination. In addition to the Gender Equality Act, we have developed legislation on equality and non-discrimination in several other areas during this government period: Chapter of the Environmental Protection Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination in the Labour Market on the grounds of sexual orientation, disability, age, political views, etc.The Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination on the Basis of Homofil Legation, Lifestyle or Orientation On 19 April, Odelstinget passed a new Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, religion, etc. – the Discrimination ActSyse Committee, which assesses the protection of people with disabilities, delivers its proposal in May 2005 These laws broadly follow the same methodology and principles as the Equality Act. Nevertheless, the laws have been enforced by a number of different bodies: the Equality Ombudsman, the Centres for Ethnic Discrimination, the Labour Inspectorate and also the ordinary judiciary. The Government considers that the coordination of enforcement of different rules of discrimination is in the best interests of users. For individuals who experience discrimination, it would be beneficial to be able to relate to one body rather than to be briefed among many. One body offers much better opportunities to deal with cases of multiple discrimination, i.e. discrimination on a number of grounds. For employers, public bodies, stakeholder organisations, educational institutions, etc. which need guidance on how to actively promote diversity and equality, it will also be helpful to be able to relate to one body. I also believe that a comprehensive enforcement system with a broader professional environment and a greater degree of professional exchange of experience will achieve both greater impact, better results and thereby greater legitimacy than more small separate bodies, which will have to compete for attention and resources. It is positive that the Stortinget is engaged in the drive function, as the proposed ombudsman will get. I can assure you that this function will have a very clear place in the regulation. I believe that both the law enforcement work and the enforcement work will benefit from a single body. In addition, individual cases will be dealt with by the Ombudsman as a law-enforcement agent, providing important evidence and legitimacy to the driving force. In the case of multiple discrimination, I would like to point out that in recent years the Equality Centre has been dealing with issues relating to several grounds of discrimination, such as: coercion and sexual mutilation affecting both sex and ethnicity. This suggests that the collection of Centres against ethnic discrimination will provide significant synergies and learning across different bases. I am aware of the challenges associated with bringing together the work on pressing individual cases and the more long-term driving work in the same body, but I would like to make it clear that the driving work is as clearly required by law as the law enforcement work carried out by Section 3 of the bill and that the Government, as mentioned above, will attach a supplementary mandate to the enforcement work of the Ombudsman. This means that the Ombudsman cannot deprioritise the driving work. Incentives will continue to cover all aspects of gender discrimination. As today, this function is also assumed to involve and leverage cooperation with a wide range of expertise environments and stakeholder organisations, both nationally and regionally and locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e295	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e298	I believe that equality work has stagnated in many ways. The poor community economy leads to the dismissal of many women in health care positions and the disappearance of women’s jobs. Having a gender equality centre as a driving force in the work on women's rights, I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary. I would like to ask the Council of State: Does the Council of State believe that this driving role is being respected by combining the driving role and the enforcement role? Two years ago, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left put forward a proposal that it should be 40 p.m. the share of women in public limited-liability companies and its entry into force from 1 January 2004. The government then, with the government councillor Gabrielsen at the head, thought that this was no problem, and that it was not necessary to legislate this. It should go by itself. That time it was 7 pst. Women in the boards, today it's 11 pst. And then I'm going to ask: is the council satisfied, or is she, like the Labour Party, very impatient? If so, what will she do?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e305	Firstly, with regard to the driving function, which will also be part of the tasks of the new ombudsman – as proposed by the Government – I am convinced that this is the right way to organise it. I think it's wise, as I also said in my post, and it will give a synergistic effect. When you have the law enforcement role and in this way you can use the stuff that comes in, you'll always know what's going on, and what's the big problem in this area. So you'll also be able to do the driving role in a good way. I want to take an example, and this concerns the Equality Ombudsman today. The example goes on the obligation of activity, where we see today that the Ombudsman actually has a driving role and a law enforcement role. This has been done in a very positive way, and it is very active in driving. When it comes to the last one, I really don't understand the question. That case has been completed in Stortinget according to the schedule that has been set by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e314	I want to address the last time I went into my post and point out that there is a major imbalance in the Ombudsman's role between basic sex and ethnicity on the one hand and sexual orientation on the other, and that it is unfortunate that the new Ombudsman will only be responsible for sexual orientation in the workplace and in the housing sector. This means that if discrimination has occurred in all other fields and in all other areas of society, the Ombudsman does not have a mandate in relation to discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. This is quite unyielding, and it's quite difficult. So it can in itself be discriminatory. I wonder what the Council of State has in mind in this area of problems, and what she will do to get this properly in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e321	In some areas, sexual orientation and discrimination in this respect will be covered by the tasks of the new ombudsman. It concerns the Labour Environment Act and its enforcement, as well as the Housing Act. We have recently carried out a project on the follow-up to the action plan for homosexuals and lesbians. In this project, it turned out that the majority of the discrimination we see today is linked to the provisions of the Working Environment Act – so it will be taken care of. As far as I know, the organizations that speak are also gay and lesbian, very satisfied with this. We have not proposed a general law on discrimination here, but we are first of all introducing the laws we have in these areas. I think it's wise that we move forward a little bit carefully, and then we'll see and evaluate every time if new grounds are going to come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e328	We've had several rounds about it with gender rationing in government and the lack of women's representation in rental settings. We had hoped that this would be voluntary, but that law must come into force in August 2005. And then I'm going to go into the plural comment that many people have made when it comes to our two women's universities, and they're saying that they can be drivers in relation to business in the field of equality. I have asked the Minister for Children and Family Affairs – or the Minister for Gender Equality – about what she can do to achieve this goal during the transition period of two years. So my question is, does the Council of State here see any possibility that these two women's universities can be used as actors to achieve what we're concerned about both when it comes to government representation, and when it's about business?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e335	I would like to refer to page 45 of the odelstningsproposition where these women's universities are also mentioned. They are now private foundations, centres of expertise. It is the case that the Ministry of Education and Research grants basic grants to the Women's University of Løten, and I assume that the county council gives part to the Women's University of Nord. Otherwise, they're living on different missions. Both of these institutions are already good partners for us, and they will be so in the future. We need good professional environments that can be drivers. What we also say in the proposition, and which is important, I think, is that a closer look at this cooperation, we want the new body, the new ombudsman, to be involved in and facilitate. Clearly, we need such organs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e340	Fighting discrimination and fighting for equality, equal opportunities and respect may be some of the most important things we can work with. Norway’s history is largely about it — increasing equivalency, increased respect and integration into society by different groups. We've come a long way. We have integrated the unintermediated who previously had no voting rights. Women have come too far into society. Now it's around the gay fight for equivalency and respect standing. Unfortunately, the government is not in favour of a general anti-discrimination law, but collects it in different laws and allows it in different ways. We also know that the Council of State and her party still believe that homophiles should not be treated as equivalent in matters of marriage, in relation to ste children's adoption, etc. I would like to ask the Council of State to provide an exhaustive list of areas in which discrimination against homosexuals is still permitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e347	This Council of States is opposed to all forms of discrimination regardless of the groups involved. It is true that the Government has not put forward a proposal for an overall law of discrimination in this odelstingsproposition. There are some reasons for that. What we have said is that it might provide a less clear basis for discrimination. It's important that the legal basis we're talking about here is clear and easily understandable. I want to say it this way: we have started a very important work. It is also the case that what is discrimination can be and is different in different areas. In my opinion, it may be wise to have some experience before we possibly go to the step of carrying out further investigations. When it comes to the right to adopt and adopt stepchildren for homosexuals and lesbians, I feel like we're talking as much about what rights it's about. The affairs of my Christian People's Party in that context have been the child's right to a mother and a father, a completely different starting point. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e354	The President is asking for respect for the speaking time set.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e357	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e365	I have to get hold of the last council says, because you discriminate against children who live with one parent and who live with gay parents. Either the Christian People's Party wants it or not, or will not take it inward, it is in this country that there are many lesbians who have children, there are many gay men who have children, and there are children who live with gay parents. What surprises me is that you bring up children's rights. These children do not have equal rights to other children, not to inheritance and not to be adopted by the parent they live with. One has e.g. unable to adopt children from the rest of the family if one is homophilic himself. This is discrimination against children, and I would like the Council of State to say something about it. Here you discriminate against the children of lonely dependants, because you say that mother, father and child are the ideal arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e372	This is going to be a slightly different discussion than the discussion of a new, common agent, but I will of course answer it. I would like to point out that in the case of stebarn adoption, there is a time back in place. Likewise, I must be allowed to say that my starting point is that children in general have the right to a mother and a father. We are concerned that children today need both men and women as good role models. They often meet very few men both in school and in kindergarten. We have been concerned about this in other political contexts. My starting point is still the child's right to a mother and a father, more than adults' right to have children.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e379	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e382	I find it interesting to note that the Council of State says that the discussion about gay and adoption and about children growing up in a family where the parents are a gay couple is another debate. Of course, there is no other debate. This is the fundamental question we are dealing with here: how should we prevent discrimination, and how should we ensure respect and equality for all regardless of sexual orientation, gender, skin color, etc. That is what we are discussing. The aim of bringing this together in one enforcement body is precisely to strengthen anti-discrimination work in all these areas. But then, of course, it is essential that the Norwegian legislation also does not discriminate against anyone on the same criteria. That's where the dividing line goes between us who want to make sure that the law actually gives the same equivalence both to children and parents, and those who, I have registered, are going to make it a healthy part of their election campaign to the harvest to tell that here it still has to be discriminated against. There is one area of disagreement within the Committee, the main area in addition to a common law on discrimination, and whether enforcement and enforcement are to be brought together as a single body. There are good arguments for the enforcement role to see areas where driving is needed, and that some resource savings may also be obtained from such coordination, but there are also heavy, good arguments against, and we have found that the heaviest arguments are against. There are a lot of ways to combat discrimination. One obvious area is to ensure that the law itself does not discriminate. The Progress Party appears to believe that there is sufficient time to discriminate between men and women, between blacks and whites, or between homosexuals and heterophiles, as long as there is no specific legal or regulatory discrimination. Then everything is in its best order. So simple is not the world. We have positions, we have values inherited, we have cultural ballasts, which nevertheless ensure that there is discrimination in a society. It has to fight it actively, and one has to make sure that everyone gets real equivalency and equal opportunity. The next step is to provide for a law that prohibits various forms of discrimination. It does what we have, to a large extent, and this ombudsman, or this enforcement body, will ensure that it is complied with. But the third area is constantly influencing attitudes, addressing issues, raising debates, perhaps pushing forward new legislation or reactions or setting the agenda to combat discrimination. Here, we often do not have the full opportunity to regulate everything by law. Here, different attitudes in society must be strongly influenced. When people with foreign surnames, e.g. looking for a job for many years and never being called up for one interview, although the qualifications are clearly present, it is due to a view of people with a minority background as inferior to the labour market, and it is very difficult to do something about the law that ensures that the same people are called for an interview. Here it is positioning, here it is driving, here it is the agenda that must be. The same applies to the structural discrimination often experienced by women in politics, business, public administration, the university sector, etc. in relation to being recruited to positions of leadership, to gain positions of power, as much as men. Men recruit, men motivate men, men see men, men encourage and stimulate men to seek a career. It is the kind of structural discrimination that a law enforcement authority can address and address. We think it would have been easier to do it if we had maintained our own gender equality centre, a driving force for equality, for knowledge development, for attitude and behavioral influences, for guidance, documentation and monitoring. We believe that a law enforcement officer can be involved in a conflict role. A law will always be a little more conservative, hanging a little more in relation to the driving work to be done, and you can get into situations where the driving work and the enforcement role can come into conflict. We've been very attached to the fact that a gender equality centre, with its driving role also in relation to ethnic discrimination, was supposed to work closely with an enforcer, would like to be co-located, would like to play on common resources, but that one still had an independence. It would have strengthened the gender equality process. It would also have made the enforcement role even stronger, and we might have had an even faster result in combating discrimination and ensuring that everyone gets the same rights in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e402	On the left, the proposal to merge today's apparatus on gender equality, the gender equality issue, the Equality Centre and the complaint topic for gender equality and the future apparatus on ethnic equality, including: Centres for ethnic discrimination are a good and important step towards a more equal society. The left would stress that the core of a ban on discrimination is human dignity and fundamental human rights, all of which have the same demands for respect for their equivalency, regardless of, among others. gender, ethnic background, disability or sexual orientation. A common enforcement system will ensure that different grounds for discrimination enjoy the same degree of protection through strong legislation and effective and interconnected enforcement, and we will emphasise that it overrides the perspective of human rights in all work against discrimination. A common enforcement apparatus will facilitate harmonisation of laws and practices so that the same degree of protection becomes a reality more quickly. A common enforcement system will also make it easier to share experience and learn from it across the grounds of discrimination and to cover areas of society where the various forms of discrimination have much to do with a comprehensive strategy. An example that means a lot to people's everyday lives is the labour market. In the first instance, this will involve gender and ethnicity, but it should not take long before more grounds for discrimination are given equal protection against discrimination through legislation and thus require effective enforcement. The Syse Selection, which assesses how disabled people should be better protected from discrimination, presents its proposals on 18 May, and the Left believes that appropriate work should be undertaken as quickly as possible in relation to sexual orientation. The left believes it is important that a common enforcement system be as effective as possible, both in dealing with individual cases and in dealing with them. After the opinion of the Left, this will be best taken into account in the fact that the body dealing with individual matters also performs an influence work. Through the treatment of individual cases and in meetings with individuals, the environment is given insight into the most pressing problems experienced by those who themselves are being discriminated against, and will have the most precise starting point to drive effective and targeted influence, not only against discrimination but to at least the same degree of equality. In addition, it will be important that both those who have rights and those who have obligations under the law know where to turn, both when individual matters are involved, and when it applies to guidance on how to achieve greater equality. It is then important not only to have a common enforcement system across the grounds of discrimination, but also to avoid this being fragmented when it comes to tasks. Therefore, the Left does not support the proposal that the Equality Centre should be maintained with the organisation it currently has and that the corresponding centres of competence should be set up on a different basis. The left would point out that although this has been a requirement of the Equality Centre, it is not a view supported by the Centres against ethnic discrimination, which has just pointed to the need for a transparent device where individual experience provides an important basis for effective influence. The left believes that the danger of gender equality drowning in a common apparatus is excessive, and will stress that equality is not a good thing that it is too little of. On the other hand, the more people who become equal, regardless of the basis of discrimination, the more equality we actually get. Although there are still important unsolved tasks in relation to gender equality, both consciousness and competence in this area are significant and will be an important contribution to a stronger common apparatus also for impact. A common enforcement system should be able to identify both the extent and the nature of discrimination for the different grounds of discrimination. An instrument should be to carry out studies on perceived discrimination, as one has done when it relates to ethnicity, among other things. in Denmark and Sweden. Such studies will be very useful in order to be able to say more about the extent of discrimination in Norway. The left will stress that there is a lot to say that the new common apparatus is adequately resourced, so that there can be a good low threshold across the country. It is also important that resources should be used to acquire top-notch skills within the different grounds of discrimination that should subsequently be included. In the liberal tradition of the Left, respect for the equivalency of the individual is the core. With this proposal, we are taking an important step towards making it clear that all people have the right to equality and not to be discriminated against, but to be equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e425	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e428	I only have a short comment. In my post, I came to claim that the order shall have its own authority. I want to make it clear that what the proposition says is that the premise is that the user selection is created and not controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e433	Since there was a little bit of ambiguity about my line, I'm just going to clarify what I'm really worried about. I then refer to the proposal that the Workers' Party and SV had about 40 pst. the share of women in public limited-liability companies and its entry into force from 1 January 2004. That's what was voted down, because we didn't get a majority for that. But what is my concern is that the proportion of women in government and selection in public limited-liability companies today has only increased by approx. 4 pst. The concern is then: what does the Council of State actually do during the transitional period of two years that has now been adopted? That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e440	It was okay with a clarification. I was maybe a little bit -- no, I'm not going to owe myself. It was a little unclear to me what the representative meant, so it was okay with a clarification. The answer to that is that now the Stortinge has dealt with this law, and the Stortinge has decided that the law will come into force from the harvest if you have not reached 40 pst. women of the boards of public limited-liability companies. It looks small as it is today. As far as the country is concerned, we have already introduced the law from 1 January 2004, and in the state companies we have already achieved 40 pst. There are different things related to what we're doing. We have these databases, the NHO and the business community themselves have launched a series of actions. Among other things, the NHO has had a large project, «Female Future». I want to praise the NHO for that. It's a good move. Training of female board members has also been started, and hundreds of women in this country have already attended various board seminars. Some of this is also under the control of public institutions and bodies. It would be totally inconceivable for me at least to have to change the rules now, but that is not what the representative asks about either. The introduction of additional sanctions beyond what is already in the law, and as the Storting has decided, will be to change the rules of the game along the way, and I do not think we should do that. But together with business and separately, we will eventually assess whether there are further awareness-raising measures that we can start. I'm proud of the law that this government has promoted, which business actually takes seriously, but not enough that this year we might be able to get into port with 40 pst. women in public limited-liability companies. Then I want – since there is one minute left – to say that it is important that all of us who are discussing this new law that will possibly come from the fall of, state that this is not about limited liability companies, small family businesses and other ordinary limited liability companies. So it's just about our public limited liability companies, and it's probably a part of the public room that's not quite clear about it. So I feel that we all have a political responsibility to clarify this strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e453	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e469	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e480	Treatment of Ot.prp. No 35 highlights a new, important milestone in efforts to ensure the best possible legal basis against gender discrimination in Norway. If Odelstinget today adopts the Government's proposal, Norway will become the other country in the world which incorporates the UN Women's Convention with additional protocols in its legislation. The UN Women's Convention was adopted by the United Nations in 1979, entered into force in 1981 and was ratified by Norway in the same year. It implies that the Women's Convention has been in force for decades in international law for our country. The so-called supplementary protocol, which establishes individual redress, was ratified by us in 2002. The legal background to the Government’s decision to incorporate the Women’s Convention into Norwegian law is that the Norwegian legal system requires a special implementation in order for international conventions to have the same legal status as national laws. However, an important policy objective is to ensure consistency between norm and reality in legislation. However, legislation and practices which have a seemingly gender-neutral design may have effects that are in practice discriminatory. Formal equality is not enough, it's necessary for an actual equality to take place. This is affected by the Convention. The Women’s Convention has also established a Committee, the Women’s Committee, to monitor the implementation by the Contracting Parties of their obligations under the Convention. Parties to the Convention are required to report regularly to the Women’s Committee on their activities. The individual redress procedure established by the Additional Voluntary Protocol has led to a reinforced monitoring of the implementation of the Women’s Convention by countries. The Women's Committee has developed a dynamic interpretation style and it is assumed that the Convention will be progressively implemented in the States of Convention. At the same time as the Government proposes to incorporate the UN Convention on Women in the Gender Equality Act, some legislative changes are also proposed in the context of the implementation of Directive 2002/73/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, also referred to as the non-discrimination Directive, on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion of working conditions. The proposal further explains the need for harmonisation between the Equality Act and the Labour Environment Act. At the same time, proposals are being made for the imposition of a ban on the use of reprisals against any person who has filed a complaint against a breach of the law or who has indicated that such a complaint may be promoted. The Government also encourages proposals to extend the provision on harassment to include harassment due to gender. The Government also proposes that the provision of shared burden of proof be extended to those outside the labour market, as well as to those relating to sexual or other harassment due to sex. Another proposal involves changes to the rules on compensation in the case of harassment. An objective liability for the employer is proposed here irrespective of whether there is a debt, i.e.: whether the harassment has been committed intentionally or negligently. I am pleased to note that a broad majority of the Committee is joining in the various legislative amendments. However, the Progress Party is opposed to the Equality Act and therefore promotes its own proposal to repeal the Act as a whole. The Party shall further promote a number of amendments which they wish to vote on in a subsidiary manner in the event of their primary proposal to repeal the law. I assume that the representative of the Progress Party will explain the party’s views in its statement. However, the leaping point in the proposition, if you could say so, is the incorporation of the UN Women's Convention with supplementary protocols. I note with satisfaction that a broad majority, consisting of all parties, is in favour of implementing the Women's Convention in Norwegian legislation. However, there was a disagreement as to the law to which the Convention is to be incorporated. The Government proposes that it be incorporated by the Equality Act, which is a central instrument for the implementation of equality between men and women in Norwegian society. Another option would be to incorporate it into the Human Rights Act. In this context, the government has chosen to follow the recommendation of the Human Rights Committee, which thought it was not a good idea to include too many conventions in the Human Rights Act. This could make it difficult to distinguish between which conventions should be included and which should not be included, and to easily create an A- and a B-layer of conventions. In addition, the Human Rights Act would be more unwieldy. The Legal Committee stressed that the Human Rights Act should contain the three general human rights conventions which, at global and regional level, aimed at making the World Declaration’s legal catalogue legally binding, namely the Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, adopted by the United Nations, and the European Convention on Human Rights adopted by the Council of Europe. It is important to be aware that these more overarching human rights conventions already enshrined in the Human Rights Act also protect against discrimination on grounds of sex, in line with race, religion, political opinion, etc. The purpose of restrictive incorporation of preferential conventions is to avoid a possible trend towards the transfer of power from legislative authority to judicial authority, especially in the light of the dynamic development of international law and regulation, partly in directions that were completely outside the discretion of the legislator, which could reasonably be expected at the time of incorporation. A restrictive approach to inclusion in the Human Rights Act therefore applies not only to the Women’s Convention but also to the General Convention. The members of the Committee from the Government Parties support the Government's proposal. On the other hand, three other parties, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, say in their vote that they believe that the UN Convention on Women should instead be incorporated into the Human Rights Act, and have suggested this. As regards the incorporation of the UN Convention on Women, there was initially no majority for any of the proposals. This would mean that the Women's Convention would not be incorporated into Norwegian legislation at this time, which would be perceived as a rather dramatic setback. I am therefore pleased that we came to an understanding that ensures that the Convention is adopted with the subsidiary support of the three parties after their primary proposals have fallen. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have, on their side, taken steps to ask the Government to come back in an appropriate manner after the processing of the paper on power and democracy with an assessment of the possible incorporation of the UN Women's Convention into the Human Rights Act. In this context, a more detailed assessment will then be made of the consequences which it will have of including the Convention on Women in the Human Rights Act, its implications for both the Human Rights Act as such and for any other legislation. Given that the Storting is now going to discuss the announcement of power and democracy, where the issue of primacy in the context of international conventions is a topic, it would be natural to await this very work. As I said at the outset, we are passing a new milestone for equality today. Norway has reason to be proud to be ahead of the world in organising systems to ensure real gender equality. Finally, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, I would like to address the proposals that have been referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e526	The representative of Ola T. Loan has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e529	The struggle for every human being to have some unbreakable, inalienable values, rights, has really been a revolution in the view of the individual of modern society. There has been a tough fight, and there has been a fight that has meant too many, but which is far from being targeted. That's why it's probably a step in that process and in the work that we're now implementing new parts of the international human rights regime into our own law. We are very eager and very strong proponents to make other countries respect different human rights – related to aid projects or not related to aid projects – to respect women, to respect different minorities, to respect political rights, and of course we also know that in the case of social and economic human rights, we are very, very far from the reality that they are respected everywhere. It is therefore gratifying that there is such a wide majority in Norway that the various human rights conventions are to be incorporated into Norwegian legislation. It's just the Progress Party that once again stands completely on the line that they want to repeal the entire Equality Act. It is also in line with what we discussed in the previous case – the Progress Party has the view that as long as the law does not specifically discriminate, Kardemmme has a city, then everyone is equal, then discrimination is just a story. You don't have to walk many meters until you encounter cases that prove it every day, even in our own country. Of course, the discussion is about how the UN Women's Convention is to be incorporated into the law. We have already incorporated three of the six main conventions into the UN. It is the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, it is the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and it is the Convention on the Rights of Children. All three conventions are incorporated into the Human Rights Act, but now the Government has decided that in terms of equality between women and men, it should do so in a different way. On the part of the Workers' Party, we have a very difficult time understanding why this Convention on Human Rights is going to be a different way of doing it. This Convention, which relates to equality between women, which concerns the issue of discrimination against women, is therefore to be treated in the same way as other legislation rather than given precedence, as it would have been if it had been incorporated into the Human Rights Act. We don't see any good arguments for making such a distinction between different types of human rights. It is difficult to understand that discrimination against people because they have a particular sex is a discrimination to be combated to a lesser extent by the transposition into a human rights law, which is to a lesser extent to take precedence over other provisions and which is more likely to be derogated from by different legal provisions. I think we would react if other countries took on the freedoms that we now obviously want here in Norway – the freedom to choose to transpose a convention, the freedom to choose to say that these are things we support, but at the same time ensure us freedom to deviate from it when appropriate, at our discretion. The whole purpose of the human rights and conventions is that they should be governed by the laws of each country. In fact, there should be some rights that are so fundamental that when we get ourselves into situations where we would want to twist, twist and stretch them for different reasons — for example. Human rights – have we, however, tied ourselves to the mast and made sure that we actually give them priority when it comes to different issues. I do not understand that discrimination in different areas should be given different categorisation. It's very hard to understand. Norway has been a driving force in the field of gender equality. We were the first country in the world to make sure to say even distribution between men and women in government. We were one of the first countries in the world with female prime minister. We're now working to get women into power positions in the business world. We have a job to do -- but we're about to do that job too, even though it might go a little bit slower than we like from the opposition, when it comes to getting women into power positions in the public administration. The equality struggle is one of the great fundamental human rights struggles. It concerns half of the population — in fact, very little over half the population — who experience discrimination, who experience lack of equivalence, lack of power and influence, to develop their own abilities and talents, lack of career opportunities, lack of respect for violence and abuse, etc., only because of their gender. Then, like the equality country we like to boast that we are, and with the driving role we want to hold, we should also be the country that says that this type of discrimination should be as unacceptable as other discrimination and given the same legal treatment under human rights. That's why we have another proposal from the opposition. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party ask the Government to incorporate the UN Women's Convention into the Human Rights Act. We think that would have been the right way to do this. We support the various practical consequences of including such a women's convention into Norwegian law, we believe it should have been done in another way, so that this human rights convention is given the same precedence in Norwegian law as the others. I'm addressing proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e550	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e553	I will give tribute to the President-in-Office for a thorough work and for a good account of the content of the matter. The prohibition of gender discrimination is one of the pillars of international human rights protection. The principle is enshrined in all the central human rights conventions. The UN Convention on Women is particularly central to gender discrimination. Gender equality is simply about justice. Regardless of gender, we're going to have the same rights, the same obligations and the same opportunities in society. The background to the changes in the Equality Act is to ensure: the strengthening of the legal status of the UN Convention on Women in Norway that we fulfil our obligations under the EEA Agreement and the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, access to vocational training and promotion and working conditions harmonisation between the Equality Act and the Equal Treatment Chapter of the Labour Environment Act and the Discrimination Act; These laws are to be enforced by the new Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Gender and Discrimination Department from 2006. I refer to the matter we were dealing with just a short time ago. When it comes to the incorporation of the Women's Convention into the Equality Act, I think we clearly demonstrate that the Women's Convention is a very central tool for combating discrimination and achieving equality. From 1981 onwards, when Norway ratified the Women’s Convention, Norway has been obliged to comply with the UN Women’s Convention. It shall be as binding on the Norwegian State as any other Convention. It is also important to bear in mind that the more comprehensive human rights conventions incorporated into the Human Rights Act, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights, also protect discrimination on grounds of sex, racial, religious, political, etc. Norway is now, as one of the first countries in the world, incorporating the Women’s Convention into national law. The right considers it necessary to use gender policy instruments to achieve a more equal society. The Progress Party appears to believe that such instruments do not have an impact on the achievement of real equality. Some even claim that there is real equality in Norway — a myth that in many ways is the main obstacle to achieving real equality. All societies and democracies should work specifically for an equal society and use the necessary means to prevent discrimination. The right has considered it appropriate to incorporate the Women's Convention into the law to which the Convention has a strong factual link, namely the Equality Act. The strong emphasis of the Women's Convention on women's rights means that the Convention has a natural connection to this law. Incorporating the Women’s Convention with Additional Protocols through the Gender Equality Act can therefore help to ensure maximum transparency in the legislation. The inclusion in the Gender Equality Act will also contribute to the imposition of a specific responsibility on the enforcement bodies of the Gender Equality Act to monitor compliance with the Convention in Norwegian administration and case-law. It has recently been focused, as the rapporteur was also concerned, on issues related to the legalisation of policies, the transfer of power from elected authorities to the courts and the internationalisation of the judiciary. In particular, these issues have been debated in the context of the power and democracy investigation, and now in the St. report. No 17, Power and democracy, which are to be dealt with in the Great Britain. I have understood that the purpose of being restrictive in incorporating conventions with priority is to avoid a possible trend towards the transfer of power from legislative authority to judicial authority. A restrictive approach to inclusion in the Human Rights Act therefore applies not only to the Women’s Convention but in general. As I said, the consideration of the big message of power and democracy will help to see these issues in an overall perspective. I look forward to a further debate relating to the legal status of incorporated human rights conventions in national law. I look forward to a thorough debate on the principle of these issues, which goes far beyond the scope of the Women's Convention. As the rapporteur also pointed out, the Right and Christian People's Party have made a proposal asking the Government to come back to the question of assessing the possible incorporation of the Women's Convention into the Human Rights Act after the examination of St.meld. No 17 on power and democracy. It's probably being treated during the spring, so I'm assuming we're coming back to this. I think it's important to have that principle debate, and that it's not just linked to one convention, but a little bit more general to several conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e595	As demonstrated by the previous debate and in a number of other matters we have dealt with in this Chamber, the Progress Party has a completely different view of equality policy than the other parties. We are fundamental opponents of the public's making of special measures, special laws, quota arrangements, representations, etc. to specialise in the treatment of groups of healthy and man-made persons. I thoroughly discussed this in my article on the previous case. I'm not going to repeat that whole article. I expect that most people got our vision on that matter. So for what to deal with in this case. With regard to the incorporation of the Council Directive and the United Nations Convention, we would point out in particular that there has been a good level of ban on retaliation and prohibition of harassment on grounds of sex, even if we interpret it there that it has already been partially covered in a proper way by the Working Environment Act and other laws. However, with regard to liability, we believe that there are wild roads. The change in the law allows the employer to be fully liable without actually causing any blame for what is happening. We also believe that there are wild ways to prove the burden of proof. This was also mentioned during treatment with Ot.prp. No 33 for 2004–2005 last week. It is really a whole new legal principle that you have to prove that you are innocent. The implications of this are reasonably eye-catching. An employer comes into a hopeless situation, because as soon as someone calls for discrimination, the employer has to prove that he has not done anything wrong, otherwise he will be convicted. With regard to the UN Convention, the Progress Party considers that Norway has an obligation under international law to comply with the Convention and that further clarifications by incorporation into the law are therefore unnecessary. With this, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party, which is to be found in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e610	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e613	The Socialist Left Party believes that the Government's proposal to keep the UN Women's Convention outside human rights law is inconsistent. The six main UN conventions should have the same status – all should be incorporated in preference to the human rights law. The government has proposed incorporating the UN Convention on Women and the United Nations Convention on Racial Discrimination into the Equality Act and a new anti-ethnic discrimination law respectively. The fact that the two conventions are now finally made part of Norwegian legislation will strengthen legal protection in the fields of gender and ethnicity, but it is unfortunate that the two are being excluded from the human rights law. The aim of the Human Rights Act is to strengthen the position of human rights in Norwegian law. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights are incorporated into the Human Rights Act. The incorporation of international conventions into Norwegian law is not immaterial to their legal status. The Law on Human Rights gives precedence, which means that the provisions of this Act take precedence over other provisions. The UN set up its own Women's Convention to demonstrate that women's human rights were to be respected in relation to other considerations. The Government's proposal indicates that the Convention is not granted in the same way as the Norwegian Law of the Children's Convention. It sends out a signal that you are not as concerned with women's rights as with other human rights. The Socialist Left believes that rights attached to gender and ethnicity must be accorded equivalent status to other human rights. The incorporation of the Women’s Convention into the Human Rights Act will have important signal effects. Not only in legal terms, but also for the rest of public Norway, it is important to signal that we do not accept gross and systematic discrimination against women. Experts in the UN Women’s Committee monitoring the Women’s Convention expressed great surprise that violence against women is often written off as a private matter in such an advanced society as Norway. This is stated in a note from the UN Women’s Committee on Norway’s Fifth and Sixth Periodic Report, 2003. The Women’s Convention is important because it interprets the prohibition of discrimination in the light of the need to strengthen women’s mental and physical integrity protection in relation to violence and harassment. How can we explain that women’s rights in Norway are less protected than, for example, those in Norway? the rights of the child? The Socialist Left is therefore promoting a proposal together with the Labour Party and the Center Party, where we ask ‘The Government incorporates the UN Women’s Convention into the Law on Human Rights’. But I would also like to signal that if this proposal falls – one can hope that it does not – we will subsidiaryly support the Government's proposal. There is today a ban on sexual harassment and, in addition, a rule that gives employers, educational institutions and organisations an obligation to work to prevent sexual harassment. The proposition proposes to extend the provision also to harassment due to gender. For example, it will. not be allowed to stamp women as invincible only because they are women. There are also proposals in the proposal for changes to the rules on compensation in the case of harassment. The employer who harasses a worker will be liable on an objective basis. This is very good. The fact that the burden of proof is partly added to the employer, which is the case in other cases of discrimination, will strengthen the worker’s protection against harassment. Whoever has been subjected to harassment does not bear the full burden of proof itself. It is now important to take a step that gives international human rights conventions high status in national legislation. It is particularly important that Norway continues to be an international driver in the field of human rights. Many objections to incorporating the Women's Convention into the Equality Act have been raised. Several hearing bodies — all except one, in fact — agree with the SV that the incorporation should be done by means of the Human Rights Act. It is sad that we have not been able to reach an agreement on this, but, as I said, we support subsidiaryly that the Government will come back in an appropriate way after the processing of the notified notification of the power and democracy investigation with an assessment of the possible incorporation of the UN Women's Convention into the Human Rights Act. I'll mention our suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e634	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e638	Previously, Stortinget has been treating discrimination laws, Ot.prp. No 33 for 2004-2005. Before today, we are dealing with discrimination law. The two issues and the laws we are debating now are inextricably linked to each other and deal with the same important issue, namely Norwegian legislation against discrimination. Before I go into the central party's position in the proposals for the amendment of the equality law, I will make brief comments on our fundamental objections to the plurality when it relates to the treatment of the discrimination law, where the centre party is associated with the Labour Party and SV. We support the fact that Norway no strengthens the protection of discrimination in relation to ethnic discrimination, because the protection of discrimination is too poor, and the legal provisions are at best spread in individual areas, such as employment, housing law and criminal law. So far, we're some of the government. The main point of departure from the anti-discrimination laws, as they lead, is that they have not been transposed and made into a general anti-discrimination law. With today's antidiscrimination law, several groups in society do not receive protection against discrimination and thus lack protection in the law. We believe that there is a need for a common law on discrimination covering more groups than those covered by the proposal before us, in line with Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 26 of the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. At the same time, we stress that it is not intended that a general law on discrimination should replace existing special protection measures, such as: exist in the Equality Act. There is a need for a general law of discrimination to act as a superstructure for the special protection that will be needed. It is a pity that the government party is not in favour of the UN Women's Convention in Norway being incorporated into the human rights law, but into the equality law. If this law were incorporated into the human rights law, it would have precedence over other legislation. But – and it is important to go under – it would certainly not weaken legislation in the area that has been introduced into other laws, for example: equal opportunities law. It's only where the Equality Act gives poorer legal protection, that UN Women's Convention destinations would have been given priority if it had been incorporated into human rights law. I think such legislation could challenge e.g. the right of trust societies to discriminate against women. Human rights shall apply equally to both sexes, and I believe that it is obvious that women's rights must be universal, in line with religious freedom. So to the alternative proposal. It is obvious that the proposal of the minority is to be exceeded by Stortinget. The same applies to the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party, which we have said we will support subsidiaryly. Then there shall be no treatment of reality in Odelstinget. At the same time, there is a proposal, no. 3, which we want to support subsidiaryly, when our proposal has fallen. It should be treated in Odelstinget. I hope we can get a statement on how to proceed when you're going to vote over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e655	The proposal to be addressed by Odelstinget today is based on the Government’s wish to give the UN Women’s Convention a stronger legal status in Norway. Furthermore, it is about ensuring the satisfactory implementation of the EU non-discrimination directive. I am pleased that the Committee endorses the changes that have been made, including: to fulfil our obligations under the EEA Agreement. The main changes proposed will strengthen the status of the Equality Act and thus the overall work on gender equality. I also believe that the proposals provide good opportunities for effective enforcement of the equality law. The Government proposes that the UN Women's Convention with an optional protocol be incorporated into Norwegian law. This means that the Convention is made part of Norwegian law and gives it a stronger legal status in Norway than it currently has. Norway has already been obliged by international law to comply with the UN Women’s Convention for several decades — Norway ratified the Women’s Convention on 21 May 1981. However, the incorporation gives a clear signal that the Convention is a key instrument in combating discrimination and achieving gender equality. I am very pleased that the majority in the Committee endorses such an incorporation, and I am proud that Norway, as one of the first countries in the world, is doing this whole integration. The government proposes to incorporate the UN Women's Convention into the Equality Act. I have of course noticed that the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre want to incorporate the UN Women's Convention into the Human Rights Act. However, the Government has considered it most appropriate to incorporate the Convention into the law to which it is most closely related, namely the Equality Act. The Equality Act is a central instrument for increasing equality between women and men in Norwegian society. It follows from the purpose of the law that the law aims in particular to improve the position of women. Incorporating the Women’s Convention with additional protocols to the Gender Equality Act can therefore help to ensure a good overview of the legislation. I would also like to point out that on 19 April this year Odelstinget decided that the United Nations Convention on Racial Discrimination should be incorporated into the new Discrimination Act. It is also important to bear in mind that the more comprehensive human rights conventions incorporated into the human rights law, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, also protect against discrimination on grounds of sex in line with race, religion, political opinion, etc. I refer to Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights Article 26. In February 2005, the UN Women’s Committee met. There, Norway announced that the Government had made proposals to the Stortinget to incorporate the UN Women’s Convention into the Gender Equality Act. This was received with congratulations and positive feedback. In St.meld. No 17 for 2004-2005 Power and democracy, which is a follow-up to the power investigation, demonstrate to the Government that the incorporation should take place in the future by giving the incorporated provisions the status of ordinary law and the application of general national rules on interpretation. This increases the predictability and clarity of the law. The incorporation of the UN Women's Convention into the Equality Act is in line with this starting point. However, the government is waiting for the Storting to deal with the Storing Message in order to come back to how an incorporation can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e670	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e673	Other human rights conventions are incorporated into Norwegian legislation by the Human Rights Act. However, the Government considers that the Convention on Women’s Rights should not be transposed in the same way. Thus, this will not be given the same precedence in Norwegian law as the other human rights conventions. Why does the Government think that women's rights are not so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e678	The rights of women are important. I want to show that the sample that prepared the Human Rights Act, which the representative Lånke was also involved in, said that the three general conventions that are now incorporated, were the ones that should be incorporated, and that they should be confined to this. Their argument, which I also think we should stop a little bit by, is that the more conventions you include, the more it will affect those conventions that are not included. It was also stressed that there could be an unwieldy law if very many conventions were involved. So I want to show that the perhaps most fundamental debate that will take place in the Great Government in terms of the notification of power and democracy, and that the Great Government has not yet taken, is that you want to look at what this will do to the Law. You're worried that you want to legalize, and that you can't legislate a lot of power by doing this. And we should take that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e688	The recent debate on the discrimination of the religious community against women and men clearly shows that different human rights can come on a collision course with each other. To date, freedom of religion has taken precedence over equality, and it will continue to do so when this Convention is now incorporated into the Equality Act. Consciously or unconsciously, the Government has given gender equality the automatic compulsory withdrawal of other human rights. The UN system set up its own Women's Convention to show that women's human rights should not be lost for other reasons. This has been unheard of, and of the 22 hearing bodies that stated that the Convention should be incorporated, 21 felt that this should be done by the law of human rights. It is difficult to understand that you have then assessed how you have done on the part of the Government. Does this have anything to do with religious freedom?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e700	The starting point is not freedom of religion, because freedom of religion is today also enshrined in the Human Rights Act. As for what I also said in my post, the government, and I hope the Storting, will have a good debate on the big message of power and democracy. And what I was referring to is the debate that is being drawn up there, that is, on the evolution that can take place in the direction of the transfer of power from legislative authority to judicial authority. In particular, the Communication states that, in the light of the dynamic development of international legislation, in some directions that were completely outside the scope of what the legislator could reasonably expect at the time of incorporation. It might be wise to take that debate first and spend some time, and maybe also look at the experience with the laws we've already incorporated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e709	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e712	State Council Davay has on several occasions underlined the need for real gender equality. That's good, but when it comes to action, I'm a little disappointed. The UN operates with six main conventions. Three of these have been made Norwegian law through the 1999 Human Rights Act: the conventions on civil and political rights, economic, social and cultural rights and the rights of the child. The other three are the Conventions on Women's Discrimination and Torture. The Labour Party believes it is time to incorporate these conventions into the Human Rights Act. The Human Rights Act has a primacy which means that in the event of conflicts, human rights shall prevail over the provisions of other legislation. That would mean giving the Women's Convention and the Racial Discrimination Convention a weight in Norwegian law. The Equality Ombudsman has stated on several occasions that the Women’s Convention is part of the Human Rights Act. But it obviously doesn't matter to the government. Hege Skeie writes in an article in Dagbladet, April 23, 2005, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Bondevik Government would like to appear to be the leading arms contributor to human rights. In the east and west, as well as south – but from now on not in the north, where the government itself lives. There are other rules here. The UN may have its main conventions on human rights, but in Norwegian we are now going to draw our own distinctions between them. In that case, we'll have some “specially central” human rights conventions in Norway, and some non-so-central conventions. Only the ‘particularly central’ conventions belong to the Human Rights Act. First in the range of non-sophisticated conventions stands, as the Government sees it, those that protect against women and racial discrimination. They may also be incorporated into other laws, such as those that do not have the same legal weight as the Human Rights Act. ‘A place must go!’ they tend to say in the Department of Justice. So here it goes. Right in front of the Conventions on Women and Racial Discrimination.’ I agree with what I have now quoted. We can't accept that women's rights are going to be secondary. Why is there so much opposition to incorporating the Women's Convention into the Convention on Human Rights? In fact, the Council of State has to explain it to me once again.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e728	Ensuring the best possible legal basis for equality is a necessary part of the law of a state. Therefore, the proposal to incorporate the UN Women's Convention into Norwegian legislation is joyous. Although Norway has for a long time been obliged by international law to comply with the Convention, this is an important step forward in gender equality. Having a law that effectively combats gender discrimination is a key issue in an egalitarian society. With the incorporation of equality laws, this law will have a whole new weight and a whole new status. It has gradually become a kind of established form of truth that if one is to be politically progressive, one must go offensively into incorporating conventions into human rights law. The representative Trond Giske did the best he could. The opposition has used a lot of energy to claim that inclusion in gender equality laws prevents protection against discrimination, especially in threat communities. But the right not to be discriminated against is covered by the already incorporated conventions, as is also the right to religious freedom. Whether the gender equality struggle stands and falls on the belief society's view of women and men's possibility of positions in faith societies, yes, the oversimplification is significant, because it's not that we can ban everything we don't like. Human rights laws are not intended to cover all human rights conventions. The reason for this is that the more people are taken along, the more they are taken along, the weaker the ones that are not taken along. There I and the Council of State are quite a few – that's what the black representative fell into in a line exchange. It is also important to note that countries such as Sweden, Denmark, Iceland and the United Kingdom have only incorporated the European Convention on Human Rights. At the same time, it is important that the primacy rule be reserved for individual cases. In this way, the permissiveness and clarity of the judicial system are guaranteed, and, not least, one can help prevent a shift of power from the Storting to the courts. It's a development we don't want in the Left, because at the end it's about our democracy, as the expression of power has also highlighted. It's very important to see this in a holistic perspective. The left will therefore also support the proposal of the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party and the Right to ask the Government to come back in their own way after the consideration of the magnificence message on the distribution of power, considering any incorporation into the human rights law. It's almost urgent to see the incorporation of international conventions into a holistic light.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e744	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e747	To the representative Eirin Fallet: I want to say, and repeat, that what we are doing today is actually incorporating the Women's Convention into our Norwegian legislation. We're one of the first countries in the world to do this, and I'm proud of that. At the same time, we have said that we want a fundamental debate on judicial action in connection with the notification of power and democracy, and I am sure it will come in that context. I want to make it clear to the representative Fallet that this is not just about the Women's Convention, it is of course also about other conventions that you might want to incorporate. I should like to refer to proposal No. 2, from the minority, where you ask the Government to come back to this in an appropriate way after the treatment of the message of power and democracy. So we might get a new debate on this later, but then in a more holistic context than what we can do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e752	This is almost an explanation of how to vote. It seems that the Labour Party will have to support the proposal that exists. I understand that there is no political will to incorporate the Women's Convention into the Human Rights Convention right now. The proposal from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party is transmitted to the Stortinget. The Labour Party must therefore support the proposal that the Women’s Convention be incorporated into Norwegian law – only. I hope this is a temporary law, and that the majority of the Great Britain is aware of it and will ensure that the Women's Convention is incorporated into the Human Rights Convention. In fact, I believe that over half the population of the earth and over half of the Norwegian people, namely the women, deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e757	I would also like to make an explanation of vote. Our proposals are not being voted on, they are being sent to Stortinget. I said instead that if our proposal does not get a majority, we support the government proposal in a subsidiary way, but now it is clear that we have to vote in favour of the proposal that exists today, with inclusion in the equality law. It's better than nothing, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e764	I understand that there is a desire to end this debate in the morning meeting, so I shall not say so much more than just expressing satisfaction with the representative Eirin Faldets and, last but not least, the representative May Hansen's assurance that they want to vote in favour of the vote. I am a little sorry that we got this problem, and that today we did not have the opportunity to vote on the primary proposals of these parties, but we have to wait for the Stortinges to be dealt with later. But we have agreed on the reality. So this is going to be the right outcome anyway, even though it might look a little bit strange formally. Finally, I just want to thank you for the debate. I think there have been good arguments for the different positions. I also think it is right to say that there is no easy question we are discussing – what legislation these international conventions are to be incorporated into in order to achieve the best possible outcome. I don't think this is a question that calls for the big principal and emotional expressions. I think we're all doing the right thing in evaluating these things in the future. Now we've seen that we're in disagreement, but we can also consider a different inclusion than what we initially adopt. I don't think anyone has a full overview of the consequences of one or the other solution, so we'll have to take some time to look at it, not least after the big message about the power and democracy investigation has been dealt with here in the house. So we're looking forward to the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e777	I just want to stress that here we really anticipate the course of events. As the setting leads to, it is impossible, as others have also said, for the party to vote for its primary position. That is to say, the next time we deal with this matter, simply in Stortinget, we will vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, while in reality we have been in favour of a new Section 1b. Then I want the Council of State to take with it all the positive things that have been said – from itself as well as from others – about notifying the announcement of power and democracy, and that we will then have a whole-hearted debate. I thought we should remember, as we are now in a minority, that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they might come up with different ideas once we have debated the interpretation of power and democracy. So the same person in government when this case comes back to Stortinget, I will challenge this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e786	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 566]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e802	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 568]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e818	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 569]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e831	The Odelsting should then be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e839	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1303	Here the Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1315	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1325	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation. The President will draw attention to the fact that the scheduled time for this morning's meeting is now late, but will propose that the meeting continue until today's map has been finalised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1335	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Ola T. Loan on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1412	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Act on Gender Equality is amended as follows:New Section 1 (b) is replaced by the following:Section 1 (b) The International Convention of the United Nations on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women with Protocol No 6 October 1999 shall apply as Norwegian law. [[Equal opportunities law]] [[Incorporating the UN Convention on Women]] The Convention shall be published in the Norwegian Levtidend in one original language and in the Norwegian translation.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have signalled during the debate that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1553	Paragraphs 16 and 17 are presented with a different proposal from the Progress Party under proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: «BI Law 9 June 1978 No. 45 on gender equality is amended as follows:§ 16 shall be replaced by the following:§ 16 The person claiming to be unlawfully treated will bear the burden of proof.§ 17 shall be replaced by:§ 17 The applicant for employment or the employee who has been treated contrary to the provisions of this Act by the employer or any person acting on his behalf may claim compensation and compensation under the general rules on compensation for damages in the event of a deliberate infringement of the provisions of this Act.» [[Burden of proof]] [[Liability]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1615	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1625	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1699	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1709	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1755	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-25-lower.ana.ud474e1765	The bill will be sent to Lagtinget.
