ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e41	The representative of Morten Højlund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e44	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Siv Jensen, Christopher Stensaker and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the refocusing of Norwegian foreign policy and the modernisation of the EEAS.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e49	The representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e52	I will, on behalf of myself, promote a proposal for a waiting period guarantee for the treatment of mentally ill children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e57	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e71	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e80	The background to the debate we have today is a Document No. 8-proposals submitted by the representative Jan Simonsen to allow the sale of wine and spirits in shops throughout the opening hours. Now it is that the Progress Party in the Committee is the only ones who have a positive attitude to this document and who have made similar proposals, so I think that I will concentrate on arguing for the Progress Party's position, and then I expect that all the other parties who have the opposite view are able to argue for their views. I think I should leave it to them. The Progress Party is a party strongly opposed to society imposing too much restrictions on where and when adult citizens are allowed to buy legally negotiable goods. In addition, when one uses a monopolist to represent the turnover of, for example: liqueur beer and wine, while allowing beer with a lower alcoholic strength than 4,76 pst. can be sold in stores, this becomes, in the opinion of the Progress Party, a management of the consumption pattern in terms of alcohol, in a very unfortunate way. Why should it be that if a person over the age of 18 wants to buy a bottle of wine for food and does not drink mineral water or beer with a lower alcoholic strength than 4,75 % by volume, that person must contact the Vinmonopolet – yes, if there is a wine monopoly nearby, then well note. The majority of the Storting have always used the wine monopoly and argued that the wine monopoly is an important alcohol policy instrument for the very reason why a person wants to maintain the wine monopoly system today. I would assume that there are many in this room, as well as possibly also outside the country's borders, who got a wake-up alarm when the revelations related to the Vinmonopole and suspicions of lubrication came to light some time ago. This undoubtedly put the whole organisation connected with alcohol policy instruments in a strange light, especially when one sees that it is actually possible to buy space in the shelves of the Wine Monopoly. The Progress Party has the feeling that its citizens are themselves able to decide what they want to do when visiting a grocery store. This also applies if a person should consider buying a bottle of wine, or if a desired mineral water or beer. This is an attitude that one would think the Right Party also stood for, after what has been in large media outlets, where the head of the Right Programme Committee, who is also the Vice-Chairman, Jan Tore Sanner, proclaimed a great desire for wine sales in the store during the next major period. The surprise is therefore great that this party now, in fact on the first occasion, if it is correct in the vote, will vote against its own programme formulations. The wonder does not get any less when a party reads what it writes in its own programming for the current period. I'll quote from page 72 of this program: ‘Righter believes it must be the same availability for wine as for beer and will allow the sale of wine and liqueur beer in the grocery stores.’ It is still possible for the right party to show that they are actually to be trusted even after the camera lights have been switched off. But it's obvious that there's a big challenge here. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e107	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has made the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e110	Obviously, it's not much to surprise the representative Harald T. Nesvik. This proposal, now promoted by Jan Simonsen, is largely similar to that promoted by the Progress Party and also by the representative Simonsen earlier in this period, who has had the same fate. It's especially point 2 that Harald T. Nesvik is surprised that the Right will vote against. That's exactly the quote he made from the Right Programme, that we went to the choice on a wish to have the opportunity to sell wine and starch in regular shops. We're also going to go to the elections for the autumn. But after the last election, we cooperated with two other parties who led the Right back to the government offices, where we have achieved a positive impact on large parts of our policies in very important areas. This is one of the points that we didn't reach out to, but it'll be the election result for the fall that decides if we reach this point, because this is probably going to be on our program this time as well. What will be my advice to the representative Nesvik, is, rather than in a way to have fun at the expense of the Right in this matter, perhaps to sit back well in the chair and learn, because I have understood that the Progress Party has strong ambitions to even occupy the government offices once. They may need to see that other parties actually have the ability to prioritize which points are important, and which points are less important in the party's policy to get through, and highlight what one has the opportunity to do, instead of what one has no opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e119	Yeah, it's not easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e122	I'm not going to take a long time. SV, and I believe most other political parties, base their policies and political decisions on knowledge and professional arguments. This is the case for SV also in the case of alcohol policy. But there is a party in this room that does not, because they say in their remarks that there are no ‘some clear and sustainable reasons’ for why one should maintain the kind of restrictive measures such as: the wine monopoly system. This goes across everything we know. Over many decades, the alcohol policy in Norway has resulted in our country having, despite having significant adverse effects on the use and abuse of alcohol, fewer adverse effects related to alcohol use, lower social costs, etc. And the two main instruments of Norwegian alcohol policy on which there has been a relatively large consensus are limited and controlled availability in terms of both outlets and outlets, as well as in terms of opening hours and a relatively high level of charges. Of course, there is a need to discuss nuances in this at all times, but this has been a basis. Then to the wine monopoly system. It's not surprising at all that the representative Nesvik uses the unfortunate events we've had in the Wine Monopoly, where it might seem that someone's been trying to buy space in the shelves. But we've seen that in many other businesses as well, and I don't expect Harald Nesvik to want to end the grocery trade because there have been similar trends there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e131	A key objective of Norwegian alcohol policy is to reduce total alcohol consumption. We all know that there are essentially two parameters that have effect, an easy price and availability. The relationship between total alcohol consumption in the population and the extent of harm is very well documented. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that there is such broad political support for the state wine monopoly system, a system which, in our view, is a very important element of Norwegian alcohol policy. The retail monopoly is particularly characteristic, and it has a basis for its existence, and it is mainly because it is able to prevent private economic interests from being caught up in Norwegian alcohol policy. All international research and consumer statistics show that Norwegian alcohol policy has been effective in limiting total consumption. All research and knowledge also show that Norwegian alcohol policy is producing good results. Then it would be totally meaningless if one were to try to change a policy that turns out to be working and that gives good results. The document No. The 8 proposal shows that, once again, it's the Progress Party that's on the sidelines of Norwegian alcohol policy and, fortunately, they have no influence. What's incomprehensible to me is that in all other things we're dealing with in this room, it's research and knowledge that lays the foundation for what we want to get through. Every time, we can refer to research institutes, hearing aids, etc. But on this one point, the Progress Party is saying that here we know better ourselves, this is our policy, we don't care about research whether it's national or international. It surprises me. Allowing wine and beer to be sold in grocery stores would mean a radical extension of the availability of more alcoholic beverages, both in outlets and in opening hours. Christian People's Party does not want this. Such a system would also weaken the possibility of controlling the marketing of these goods monthly. This control is best served by the monopoly of wine that we have today. And then we can draw up the challenges that the monopoly of wine has faced in the matters that we know about, but we're not changing an alcohol policy that works, on the basis of it. This is a matter in which the monopoly of wine is forced to clean up. The Christian People's Party, on its side, will contribute actively in the future by focusing on drug problems. We've done that at all times. We want to help those in society who have problems with alcohol, and the best way to do it, is to be able to limit access, and in relation to what goes on. I would like to ask Harald T. Nesvik if he has been in contact with the 200,000 children who dared to come home on weekends, if he has spoken to some of these and if they would like more availability for alcohol, if they wish, when they dared to come home on a Friday night, that it would be possible to buy wine and beer in the local store as well. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e148	This is a case that shows that there is a very big difference between how we experience the world and perceive things around us, not least about the alcohol policy and the everyday life that is in Norway in that context. When the proposer says that he does not find any reasonable reason for us to have a restrictive sales and sales policy for beer, wine and spirits, I think it will be quite violent. In fact, we almost have a consensus on this matter. Research and knowledge shows that limited availability results in less consumption and less adverse effects, and thus lower costs for individuals, for individual families and for society as a whole — i.e. costs related to adverse effects on alcohol use. It is quite clear that, as the author of the proposal, Mr Simonsen, wishes, and as the Progress Party has proposed in the Committee's position, it will open up a completely different marketing policy and an entirely different alcohol policy from the one we have in Norway today. We should like to discuss whether a liberal alcohol policy or a restrictive alcohol policy is desirable, but at least we must not say that it has no consequences. I hope that we will still have a broad majority in the Norwegian economy to build on the policy that emerges in this position, where one believes that availability has a very large connection with the amount of alcohol consumed. It can be said that too restrictive a policy, both in terms of availability, the number of outlets and price, leads to illegal sales. That's right. That's why something has to be weighed here, but it'll always be that someone is trying to get hold of the deciduous cheapest drug. Therefore, I believe that with regard to availability, it could never be such that it would not be smuggled, that it would not produce illegal spirits, etc. I hope that the sales policy we have, with the sale of alcohol with low alcohol content in the groceries, can continue, and that there are restrictions on sales time. I also hope that wine and spirits will continue to be sold through the wine monopoly system. I now see that some of them grab the straw that must be to discuss and criticise the wine monopoly again, but I think it will be something premature. The wine monopoly scheme is a scheme which is concluded in the Norwegian Grand Prix. So there's a question of how the wine monopoly that the company employs is living. You have to take that in a different context, and I'm pretty sure it's going to be cleaned up in a very real way. It's a signal that indicates it. So I agree with the majority vote, that the proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e161	The question about the sale of wine and starch in the store is one that we have discussed several times during this big time period – and on the basis of that, I would not want to take the word. But for the sake of order and for the sake of the protocol, it is important for me, now that all parties have taken the floor, to stress that the Workers' Party is, of course, also strongly opposed to opening up the sale of wine and starch in stores – and of course also alcohol for that part, even if it is not in this proposal. We have made extensive arguments for this both when the Stortinget has previously dealt with Document No. 8 proposals, and at the latest in the examination of a revision of the alcohol law. Our main reason is that we recognise the facts underlying a comprehensive research on what contributes to increasing alcohol problems in different communities. There are few things that are more thoroughly documented than the fact that there is price and availability that say first and foremost about the level of alcohol consumption in a society and the extent to which the alcohol problems become. The main means of preventing increased alcohol problems is to restrict the availability and make the product relatively expensive. When it comes to proposals that will dramatically increase accessibility, there will in practice be a proposal to say yes to increase alcohol problems in Norway. I am aware that those who are for this are very concerned about denying any fact in this matter. Nevertheless, the facts are present. These are the reasons why it is quite natural for the Workers' Party to say that a fundamental feature of our alcohol policy is that we want to take care of the wine monopoly system, call about the wine monopoly system, and that it is therefore totally inappropriate for us to vote to open up the sale of wine and starch at the store.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e172	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e176	It is true that Norway, Sweden and Iran are among the countries in the world where buying wine is prohibited in a regular colonial store. In most other countries in the world, it is fully possible. In many countries vodka can also be purchased 24 hours a day. When I was on vacation in Prague the last time, I bought a bottle of egg liqueur from a gas station. I have many friends in Eastern Europe, and they are sometimes visiting Norway. The last time I had visited a friend of mine from the Czech Republic, he first went to a pharmacy to buy a skin cream that he used to buy at the store at home. Then he was told that he had to go to the doctor first. Then he went into the local store on the corner and was going to buy a bottle of wine. He did not find it, so he took two bottles of beer instead. He went to the exit, but was told he couldn't take them out of the store, because the clock was over 18. Then he looked at me and said: Norway – it’s a communist country. There's something in there. At least we're a guardian state. The opposition to selling wine in shops believes that this leads to increased alcoholism. But then you have to ask yourself, why in the world is it allowed in almost every other country in the Western cultural circle? Is it the case that politicians in these countries want the population to be alcoholic? Or is it that they actually didn't understand this problem? Do they want people to drink more? Or could it be that they actually have good experience with a practice that they have had in these countries throughout the rest of Europe for years? Because I guess if we go into a store and we can't buy wine, we might buy some beer instead. We're going to be just as full of it, and maybe we're going to drink a lot more of that, and it's going to slip down more easily. Wine is, after all, something you use primarily for food – or medicine. When my twin brother escaped from a major heart operation at Haukeland Hospital in Bergen, he received a letter from the doctors informing him that he should drink two glasses of red wine per day. day(s) It's probably a sound and good advice, but then he has to go to a monopoly to buy his medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e187	The fronts are so clear here. Who thinks what, has been the same as long as I've been in politics. I just have to answer a couple of the challenges that have come from representatives of the other parties. SV went reasonably well in the trap in which I thought they were going to go – that they would refer to what happened in the grocery store. No, it's actually a substantial difference. What happens in the retail trade is affected by the Competition Act. In this connection, among other things: The Progress Party proposed significant tightening, so it's actually a piece of legislation that the Socialist Left Party's representative tried to include in its argument. To Osmundnes and the 200 000 children. Yeah, I've actually talked to a lot of them. The fact that a lot of people actually have feedback is that you don't think this has the big effect, because those people who have alcohol problems get access to these products anyway. There are quite a few people who claim it. The representative of Smoothness was concerned with the availability and importance of reducing availability. As far as I know, say, among other things. the Central Party that there should be wine monopoly in every municipality in this country. It will actually increase availability – but significantly less than I want – but the central party's policy is that one wants it to be a wine monopoly in every single municipality. And then you've also increased accessibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e198	There are very serious reasons for maintaining our detailed monopoly on alcoholic beverages. On the one hand, alcohol is a legal product that many people associate with something positive. On the other hand, alcohol causes great social and health damage and major problems in society. This potential for harm means that alcohol cannot be treated as any other ordinary commodity. There is broad scientific agreement, both nationally and internationally, that a state-owned retail monopoly is one of the most effective means available to prevent and reduce alcohol-related problems. The reason for this is that a state-owned retail monopoly keeps private economic interests out of circulation, in order to effectively regulate the availability and marketing of alcohol. The wine monopoly currently has nearly 200 sales, in addition to the national postal transit system. This ensures good availability of alcoholic beverages to a very large proportion of the Norwegian population. At the same time, the wine monopoly strongly contributes to Norway having one of the lowest alcohol consumption in Europe, and clearly fewer alcohol-related health damage than countries with a liberal alcohol policy. In my view, the restriction of free movement is fully offset by the obvious benefits for public health and social conditions. One of the arguments that are often raised against the wine monopoly is that it should lead to smuggling and illegal production. However, this is a problem in many countries, including those countries which do not have monopoly arrangements. In the last ten years, we have seen a decrease in the illicit circulation of alcohol in Norway of about 10 %. 50 pst. It is estimated that today’s illegal turnover accounts for around 5 pst. of the total alcohol consumption in Norway, suggesting that the problem is not as high as it is often thought to be. Storting representative Jan Simonsen and the minority of the Social Committee believe that Norway should abolish the monopoly because the majority of other countries in Europe do not have a monopoly system. I do not see how the fact that many other countries have a less effective alcohol policy — with more extensive alcohol-related problems — can be an argument for resolving the wine monopoly. In my view, on the other hand, this is a good argument for maintaining and protecting the arrangements we have, and for working for increased understanding and cooperation in international contexts. In recent times, we have also seen that alcohol has increasingly been put on the agenda, both in Europe and internationally, and that developments in several European countries are moving towards a more restrictive alcohol policy. The representative Simonsen, in his proposal, characterises the monopoly of wine as ridiculous. I don't think there's anything ridiculous about a system that ensures the majority of the population good access to a wide range of alcoholic beverages, while effectively preventing extensive health damage, accidents, violent crime and problems for relatives and children. There is no reason to laugh at such a scheme. On the contrary! There is reason to be proud of such a system, and there is reason to take care of and further develop such a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e213	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2078]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e230	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e239	I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Health and Care for a full account of the situation in the field of mental health protection. Most of the things we've heard before, but it's in the presentation some new thoughts that are worth worrying about. When the State took over the specialist health service, including psychiatry, in 2002, the county municipalities had over the year developed psychiatry plans to be implemented by the enterprises, not least in terms of quantitative target sizes. These are broken down by regional health enterprises to the unknown. In particular, this refers to the number of daily places in the treatment system, and partly daily places and professional quality in the district psychiatric centres with a significant reduction of daily places in these. Personally, I think that the psychiatry today would have been much better if the companies had implemented the plans the county municipalities had developed and that were approved by the department. Too many daily places, not least in psychiatric hospitals, have been closed down much earlier than foreseen and without similar measures being built up. Unfortunately, this has happened with the agreement of both the former and the current Minister of Health and Care. The result today is that we have too few emergencies and intermediate departments. Therefore, I personally disagree with SINTEF when they claim that municipal services instead of daily stays in the specialist health service would have been preferable. Municipal services of different kinds in the municipalities, such as housing, work and cultural follow-up, are important, but in practical life we must, if we are to be honest, acknowledge that for the rapid transfer of responsibilities for psychiatric services to the municipalities largely the patient is affected, and not least the patient's relatives, and that there is too much police in the municipalities that have to clean up when problems of a serious nature arise. District medical centres were to be the support pillar of the psychiatry plan and were to provide outpatient services, day care services and daily services. In my own county, Telemark, a DPS with 17 daily seats was planned in the region of Vestmar, i.e. Kragerø, Bamble and Drangdal. All of these places have now been deleted, and one has decided to build 30 daily places in Porsground, which is actually a new emergency department, and how the admission threshold is as high as in the ordinary psychiatric emergency department in Grenland. It is both a good and absolutely necessary measure proposed by the Minister of Health and Care, namely that patients in the municipalities get a responsible named person to deal with during treatment and rehabilitation. It is equally important and necessary, as stated, that a greater emphasis is placed on the user perspective both in the case of patients and in the case of patients. As I see it, the transfer of psychiatric responsibility from the specialist health service to the community health service has gone too fast, without it being possible to set up with a professionally sound competence for the tasks transferred. The number of homes in the municipalities for psychiatric patients is good and good, but the main thing is the content of the housing and the follow-up of the residents. And here we still have a very long way to go. I am personally strongly in doubt whether it is right to replace 24 hours for the DPS with a so-called ambulatory team. In fact, many psychiatric patients need to be taken out of their local environment, out of their homes, for shorter or longer periods of time and be admitted to institutions. This has not least to do with full-day safety for individual patients, but perhaps also to a large extent for their relatives. Thus, at my discretion, a daily space cannot be replaced by an ambulatory team working from 1 p.m. 8 to 8 o'clock. 16 and whether it should be a good supplement. The Minister of Health and Health addresses a particularly important problem, namely a radical change in attitudes in the culture of treatment. It is equally important, which is also addressed, with a better consensus in the professional community on the working methods and content of treatment. On the other hand, I think we have too many of the old nostrils left in the system, which we have to get rid of. Finally, I refer to the proposal that has been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e260	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e263	The Roadmap for Mental Health 1999-2008, adopted by a total of large numbers, has been a very important tool and has given attention to the development of psychiatry. The Minister of Health and Welfare’s statement on the situation in psychiatry was full and contained a good analysis of many factors and future measures. I'll give the Council of State honor to be clear. In general health policy as well as in psychiatry, there is always room and need for improvement. I would therefore like to use this opportunity to make a number of constructive contributions that I believe should be emphasised in the work ahead. The acute psychiatry is not satisfactory. Especially in larger cities, the lie-down time in emergency reception is halved. It may sound as if patients then get a different and more adapted offer. The half-life also means that many patients are discharged prematurely. Many people do not get well enough before they are printed, and it also appears that they are printed to nothing – in some cases with fatal consequences. Although treatment methods can be good, it does not mean that people today are getting healthier than before. Many people need time. And they must! Ambulance teams, i.e. those who work outside are important. It alone doesn't solve this I'm pointing at here. Another group is the patients who fall between the provision of services in municipalities and the provision of specialised institutions. Some of these have been bad for a long time and may seem not to have the best prospect of getting well. They are printed out, and some of them may be a danger to themselves and others — or may go into a treatment vacuum. These may require a longer-term supply of care and rehabilitation. These patients often become caste balls. This is unworthy! It is important not to reduce daily places, such as: may be inter-municipal schemes or, in particular, be in the psychiatric rehabilitation institutions — in some cases also called hospitals. It was very important and right that the Council of State's statement unequivocally stated that the daily places that have not yet been closed should be maintained, at least until further notice. It was a necessary message for health businesses. I think we're in good use for all of these places, including in the future psychiatry. Psychiatric people must have peace and not be chased around like sheep in the system. Governments focused more attention on professionalism and professional standards and the need for consensus on good treatment practices. This is very important, but he was not particularly concrete. I would therefore like to put the search light on four aspects. Firstly, good management is very important, both administratively and professionally. This has to be clarified and requirements must be set. Secondly, the development of district psychiatric centres has followed the escalation plan. These centres are important in the treatment chain, but there are far too unclear requirements for manning standards. There may be a quality problem in the district psychiatric centres. Third, there's still a huge shortage of psychiatrists, maybe up to 300. The training capacity is 20-30 per. years are too small to solve the problem. And fourthly, our research effort is far too small. This is a clear matter of authority and, to the most extent, a matter for the Norwegian Medical Association, as the education system is still. The treatment funding system is too poor, which further up-to-dates the higher price share of somatic treatment. Psychiatry can be a loser. One might also wonder if the right patients are given priority. Not least, there may be reason to ask how the private part of psychiatry prioritises patients. Finally, a heart attack: the psychiatry in the municipalities cannot be fully satisfied without improving the finances of the municipalities. The government parties have a heavy responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e297	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for an open and honest presentation of the situation in psychiatry after more than half the race in the escalation plan. As the Minister of Health points out, the quantitative objectives of the escalation plan are well within reach, while the overall objectives of mastering the lives of people with mental disorders and of prioritising this patient group in line with somatic patients are still well away. The government has brought the psychiatry plan back on track financially. This has been done through three essential decisions: 1st@item: inlistbox The appropriations entered in the 2005 State budget are above what is necessary to achieve the objective in 2008.2. A steering signal has been given that places — or daily places — in acute psychiatry should not be closed until alternative services are established in district psychiatric centres or municipalities. And, not least:3. Health businesses have been clearly informed that growth in psychiatry and treatment provision for drug users alone should be higher than that in somatic settings. The Minister for Health, in his presentation, has pointed to the major challenges in psychiatry, beyond the resource-related. In other areas of society, therefore, there would have been a basis for slowing the escalation — to ensure that resources were used properly. However, in the case of psychiatry — where the long-term lack of resources has been so great — the health minister’s ability to prioritise this economic priority has been a prerequisite for raising awareness of the other challenges in the field of science. Previous attempts at this have largely ended in a debate on financial resources and on the failure of politicians in the escalation plan. Now, however, a climate has been created to discuss also the professional and mental challenges in psychiatry. It's very necessary. The Minister of Health therefore deserves commendation for his ability to give priority to psychiatry in general and at all times to take the individual patient and his/her family side into the discussion on the challenges of treatment provision. There is a need for a change both in attitudes and in the culture of treatment. Early diagnosis and use of documented knowledge must become the dominant feature in the service. It is unacceptable that the patient should be hospitalised for a longer period of time without a professionally based diagnosis and thus establish a good treatment system. I hope that this debate will also give a clear signal to the entire service that there is still a broad political consensus on the objectives of the escalation plan, not only the quantitative but also in the choice of strategy. We have well-based professional assessments that show that the objective of a more decentralised offer, through good district psychiatric centres and community services, is a right direction. This must mark the further follow-up to the escalation plan. Children and young people shall continue to be given priority during the escalation period. When I started as a county politician about 12 to 13 years ago, there was not a child and youth psychiatric offer in my county, Rogaland. Several states were in the same situation. When I then got involved and thought that there was a need to invest more in psychiatry, I was met with arguments from older politicians that all the focus on psychiatry was a fashion issue that would soon pass. This tells a lot about the reason why we still have a big challenge in giving this age group a good offer. It is essential that young people with mental problems receive early help before the disease develops into a serious psychosis or schizophrenia. I am therefore pleased that the Government, among other things, has chosen to bet on information in school. The school has an important task in making it natural for students to talk about mental health, so that at an early stage they seek help or talk to others about their problems. It is important that all young people know what to do if a friend or a friend tells them that they have problems and that they ‘wear’, but that one has to promise not to tell anyone. This must be answered so that you can grasp it at an early stage. Finally, I would like to comment on the proposals of the Progress Party, which have been put forward in the Chamber. In my opinion, the proposal actually weakens patients' rights in relation to today's law. After the introduction of the new Patient Rights Act, all patients are entitled to treatment after an individual deadline. I would like to quote the patient representative in Oslo, Petter Holm, who in today's VG says the following: «The law of the day is clear enough, but it is not followed up. If politicians had concentrated on bringing professionals to follow the law, they would have been a long way to go.’ It is where the challenge lies, not in introducing new rights that are, in reality, a weakening of individual rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e338	SV was committed to getting the Minister of Health and Welfare to the Stortingen to give an account of the state of mental health protection in Norway. The background was the very many feedback, reports and concerns that politicians have received, either directly or through the media, from patients, relatives, professionals and organisations. These reports and concerns have given us a picture of some serious failures and shortcomings in the service provision of people with mental illness. What's worried us the most in S.B., maybe the most, is two things in particular. The first is that very many children and young people have suffered from some very serious mental illness and have been without treatment and that the build-up of treatment capacities and competences seems to have been considerably slower in children and young people than in adult patients. Figures have also shown that the waiting time for treatment for children and young people has been partly longer than for adults, and the decline in waiting time has been more modest for this group than for others. The other thing that has given us extra cause for concern is a picture that those who are hardest hit by lack of capacity, alongside children and young people, are the most seriously ill patients. The Minister for Health and Welfare made a statement on the subject, inter alia: emphasis on the importance of good acute psychiatric services. It's not hard to agree with that. But there is a lot of evidence to suggest that there is an equally high problem that there are very poor offers in terms of further treatment and follow-up of people who are going on from the emergency psychiatric service. Too often, therefore, we have experienced that after a short stay in acute psychiatry, serious sick people are printed out for absolutely nothing. This is lacking both in specialist psychiatry and in the long-term and complex provision of services which many seriously ill people need, and which municipalities should provide. This will be the major challenge for the future, both for the Stortinget and for the Minister of Health and Care. The roadmap for mental health is very much about resources. That's often money. So sometimes it's said that more money can't solve all the problems, nor in the psychiatry. I agree. But we don't get away from the fact that it's also about it. This is why it should be stressed that first this year — in 2005 — the availability of resources to the psychiatry above the State budget is somewhat in line with what was foreseen in the escalation plan. In all previous years, the plan has been underfunded to a greater or lesser extent. This may be one of the reasons why the conversion of the service offer that was included in the escalation plan has come to an end. The decline of major institutions and long-term sites has gone much faster than the construction of DPSs, municipal services and others to replace. I am therefore pleased with the strong signals given by the Minister of Health and Care regarding the priorities of psychiatry in the future. Not least, we have noticed in SV with pleasure that the Council of State Gabrielsen acknowledges that the priority of psychiatry in regional health companies is not and has not been sufficient. The Council of State was also exemplary in ensuring that mental health protection and drug treatment separately should grow more strongly in 2005 than in the somatic environment. This topic has been the subject of many political debates here in the Chamber during this period. SV now notes that the Council of State Gabrielsen agrees that when the Stortinget has said that psychiatry and the Ru area should be given priority, it means that the annual resource growth in these two areas must be greater than in other areas. This political discussion should therefore be put to death once and for all. At least we have a common understanding of the starting point for the further development of mental health protection. But it's also about more than just money, which many people have been involved in. It is a matter of taking the individual patient seriously, finding the most individualised treatment services and implementing them, and often long-term composite services are needed. And then clear demands must be made on the quality of these services. Then the representative Alvheim has made a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party on a type of treatment guarantee for children and young people under 18. This is a proposal that SV has been promoting several times in different contexts, and so far – as far as I remember – we have only got in touch with it from the Center Party. We are therefore very pleased that the Progress Party too now sees the need for this. And that Document No. The 8-proposal that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen promoted at the opening of this meeting is going in a similar direction, so here it might indicate that we can get a majority. But it is, of course, a proposal that we agree with, such as the proposal by John I. Alvheim, which is in line with what we have said before, that we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e366	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for an honest and clear statement on the situation in mental health. It is positive that measured in money and the number of new posts are on schedule. The Christian People's Party took note of the doubt the Minister of Health had in relation to achieving the overall objective that all people with mental disorders should be able to master their own lives. The Christian People's Party shares this concern. At the same time, we believe that the prescription prescribed by the Minister of Health will produce good results. It's alarming that as many as 40 pst. of all hospitalised patients in the specialist health service are misplaced and should have had an offer either under the authority of the municipality in the form of daily municipal services or in the form of owner-occupied housing. The Christian People's Party supports the turning of measures against the first line service in order to succeed in the escalation plan as foreseen. If a person with mental problems is to cope with everyday life, it is important to provide accommodation and practical support and help at home. It is particularly important that one is not passive, but is offered work or other activity. Many municipalities have an activity centre that employs staff, provides trim and social community services. Good follow-up allows a person to release emergency facilities and cleaning facilities. It was positive to hear if the routines developed by the Directorate in cooperation with the municipalities and user organisations to help those who are the worst. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the number of sick homes is frozen until the housing situation in the municipalities has been re-examined. We are also pleased that the health minister in the governance letters to the health regions clearly prioritises psychiatry. It is clarified that the percentage growth should be stronger in the psychiatry than in the somatic environment. Interactions between different actors can be improved. The Minister of Health should closely monitor the use of individual plans and whether users themselves have a real impact on their situation. It was timely to have a critical searchlight on attitudes and treatment culture in the psychiatric department. Lack of consensus and documentation requirements in the subject are special. The evening post yesterday wrote in the lead position: ‘Some people believe in treatment through social networks, some on individual therapy hours and others on medical and electroshock treatment. The trade has been fragmented, and the professionals have used their own methods to a large extent.’ This is a perception of many parts. The Christian People's Party believes in the development of national guidelines that will give users more influence and adapted treatment. This will require good management, high professional awareness and ability to convert among professionals. I might have expected a stronger focus on prevention, so that someone gets out of the emergency room. There are many good examples of the fact that early intervention, in cooperation with users and their closest ones, avoids the inclusion of persons at risk. The TIPS project in Stavanger for the young schizophrenics is such a positive example. The Committee has highlighted on several occasions health centres for young people. This will prevent coercive thoughts and suicides and help solve identity problems. If further help is needed, it is good that you have set a target to reduce the waiting time for an evaluation interview to 10 days for children and young people. Several people get help, but more people need help, so it takes time to bring down the waiting time. The presentation was little about the double diagnosis, namely, drugs and psychiatry. Here's the big challenge. The Christian People's Party is pleased that you are building up skills in this area, among other things. at Modum Bad. Knowledge and research are important to provide proper treatment and timely assistance. Finally, the government parties will vote against the proposal of the Progress Party, because we believe that the Patient Rights Act is better, by having individual rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e399	I will also be allowed to thank the Minister of Health and Care for the statement he made on Monday. It was thorough in view of its wide-ranging status of psychiatry today, but it may not have had the whole world of instructions on how to do it in the future towards 2008 to be fully operational, as was the intention in the Roadmap for Mental Health. The Gabrielsen Council of State mentioned, inter alia: six points that he wanted to be central to the future, and that's important. The first point went on with the addition of sufficient resources. I agree with that, but then we may have to look not only at the sum in relation to the framework allocation, but at what the general community economy is like; if the municipalities each year have an economy at the bottom of their operational concept, so that it is possible to follow up what is the intention of primary health care in general and the psychiatry in particular. The second is the economy and distribution of specialist health services, and the funding system we have today, with DRG credits and input-driven funding, serves the psychiatry. I guess that's said a lot about before. I think that someone needs to find another funding model, especially for the psychiatry, to get the money where they're needed, to have services in this field at the specialist health service level. So to the services of acute psychiatry. It is disappointing to observe that DPSs adopted by the previous hospital owner have been ridiculed or ice-creamed during the time health care establishments have worked. Now, the DPS is starting to find a form, as I can understand it, and that's good. But still there is too much and varying quality of the DPS. The level of activity is different and the level of cooperation and cooperation differs. The Minister of Health is now talking about an outpatient team, and that's good enough. I think that can also remedy part of this situation and be very competent and helpful to primary health care. But the outpatient teams must have a good starting point in the DPS. There has to be a management here who knows what you want, what you do, and what you have to do to make it a good service. At the same time, there have to be enough professionals, and that makes demands for another point that I will come to later. The professional content of the service must be strengthened, Gabrielsen said. Technical guidelines are now being completed to support the professional content of the proceedings. I have to say, it's really time. I'm glad. However, at the same time as these technical guidelines, there must be resources at the bottom. There must be money, and there must be trained personnel and good enough recruitment. It's important to bring it, not least the last one, if we're going to take care of the need that comes to the end. In municipalities, there has to be a sufficient economy for competence and treatment. I am pleased with what the Minister for Health said about personal contact and individual plans. That's good. But then we have to have housing, and we have to have the social part in place, with organized work or employment and earnings for the individual, and a follow-up system that makes security and security there. I also think that we need some 24 hours in addition to what SINTEF points out. In this context, I agree with the representative of Alvheim that one must not now throw wrecks in all these daily places, nor the hospital places that have been there. I am dismayed that so many of these are built-in, without any other and better offer in place. It's been criticised by the Center Party before. So finally a little bit about the points that we think are important. If the quality of services is to rise to an acceptable level, municipalities must be given more resources and the activity and service provision of the specialist health service must be improved through both more resources and a strengthening of the qualitative content. Education and more competence must be put in place. It is important that we also get a recruitment that is in line with the needs of this medical profession. There must be requirements for management and therefore overall and progress both for the individual patient, for the institutions and for the subject. Education, research and development are important, and there must be interaction and development between somatics and psychiatry. That's why the government's attitude towards the psychiatrist at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim is disappointing. The city level must get more money, and here the government has a very great responsibility. Finally, we need to put client-creating society more on the agenda. How are we going to change developments so that we do not get this increase in mental health problems and the need for psychiatric treatment in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e420	I don't have much to add materially to the explanation I gave. I thank you for the reception it has received. As I said in the Storting on Monday, I tried at least to give an honest analysis of the situation, as I experience it, and as the representative Molvik said, having got a ‘common understanding’ of reality, is quite important no matter what we are going to discuss. But we have to recognize that in this area, as in very many areas, there is a distance between the level of expectations we have individually in society for what the health care system can sort out, and what is actually possible, both medically and resourcely, because there will always be some constraints. I think we have to recognise that this is particularly prominent in psychiatry, because we have to see the realities in our eyes. Although very many people who are affected by mental disorders will get over it, it is also that for those of us who are affected, it will often be a lifelong suffering to go on. I am particularly concerned that part of the heaviest cases will get a better offer. But then, as the representative Woie Duesund was involved, we have this with prevention. That's one, and the other is early intervention. You can build emergency departments, build on one wing after another, it's now, but the important thing is what we're doing to avoid people getting into an emergency situation. Then we have an idea that the Storting has joined in unanimously, as far as I remember, namely the outpatient team and early intervention. It's not like you're doing either one or the other. It would just mean that you walked in one or the other ditch. To the head of the committee, Alvheim, who said he was in doubt about the correctness of the ambulance team, and set it up against 24 hours, I'd say, no, we have to have both. There's no doubt about it. There's not enough outpatient teams available from 9 p.m. 8 to 8 o'clock. 16, as it was said. They have to be available 24 hours a day, just to avoid the situation of having to use the police to pick up young people from their homes, where they may have been sitting in a room for months until the nearest explosion. It's the early intervention and the outpatient team is going on. A few comments about something the representative Kristoffersen was talking about: On the one hand he gave ‘honor’ for clarity, and on the other hand there was no ‘especially concrete’, as he said. But the representative mentioned this with manning standards. We have to be so honest that we say that there is a significant problem with manning some places in the country, regardless of standards or not standards. Yesterday I had a meeting with the health company and the politicians in Finnmark. 50 pst. of the psychiatrist positions in Finnmark are not occupied. There is not a lack of standards that is the main problem, but the fact that the training capacity increase we talked about in 1997-1998 is probably not sufficient because of the growth in demand. That means that we also need to have a strong focus on the educational bit here. With regard to the second point that the representative of Kristoffersen raised, about management, which I mentioned and emphasised quite strongly, I would say that this subject has not been sufficient and in the same way as the somatic management anchored around in many of our hospitals. We have taken very concrete action on this. It is in compliance with the legal framework, such as individual plans, etc., and it is about establishing internal control procedures in order for us to know what status is at all times. The representative Alvheim talked about this with the closure of psychiatric hospitals. It's true, as I've told Stortinget before, that there's been a greater degree of degradation than what was foreseen in the psychiatry escalation plan. On the other hand, Stortinget has, as far as I can see, when I turn in St.prp. No 1 for the last five to six years, has been annually briefed on this. But I feel that I have the Storting in my back in terms of the measures that have been taken, and also in terms of those that have been outlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e438	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e441	First, a little bit of clarification. I don't put out an ambulance team to 24-hour treatment stations and hospitals, but I think both of them have to be in place. I'm just warning you that the outpatient team is going to come as a ransom of most things. I think that's going to be wrong. So a little bit to the realities behind this message, and what we've done and meant before this date and before the presentation to the Minister of Health and Care. There is no doubt that we disagree, among other things, with regard to: the level of local government finances. We've wanted more money for the area in general. But this is the case with children and young people, lowthreshold services and health centres, which have so far been mentioned here. Before considering the 2005 state budget, we were informed by the municipalities that part of the health centres for children and young people was being wound up because they had no finances. Some of us asked for this to be followed up, and we also wanted more money, without a majority for it. However, I would like to know if the Minister of Health and Health can provide a status report on health centres for children and young people, that these are not liquidated, but instead are being developed to be low-threshold services also in the case of psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e450	I mentioned that the attitude towards outpatient teams versus lucky places was that of the head of the Social Committee, but I think it's a common understanding that it's not about either – or, but both – and, and how we're going to dimension this in order to get an optimal offer. It is quite obvious that outpatient teams are important for all age groups, but it is particularly important for the group that the representative for Invalidity addresses, namely children and young people, and then in close cooperation with both child protection, health and not least school. With regard to the health centre for young people, I cannot see that in the work we have done in this regard, we have taken measures that weaken that offer, or that would be contrary to what was the Stortinge's intention in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e457	Dear Councillor! It is likely to be unclear in some areas and clear in others. The Council of State was clear on a lot in its presentation, but what I drew out, which I think was a little too little focused – at least it should be stressed in the work ahead – was some points. Among other things, I mentioned: this with the DPS and the lack of staffing requirements, not necessarily norms, but must ensure the safe quality of the DPS, one must be provided with a professionally strong crew. Many are struggling with the combination of intoxication and mental problems, and this is a growing problem. The health companies have not yet taken the necessary care of this, I think. I want to ask the Council of State what he will do to make progress in establishing a quality treatment offer for those who are struggling with the combination of drugs and mental disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e464	There is no doubt that the quality of the approx. 65 the DPS-- I think that's the number that's established, and that's about. 10 more to be established – is different. There's no doubt about it. As I said, I had a meeting with Finnmark yesterday. I know that people in other parts of the country have problems with manning. There was also a little question about it being the right ones getting help from our psychiatrists. It's clear that in our big cities there's a very build-up of private-practicing psychiatrists who might to some extent be pecking at relatively modest things, while there's heavy cases that don't get the capacity they should have. As far as drugs, psychiatry and double diagnosis are concerned, it is quite obvious that this applies to a lot of those who have been in the drug setting for a long time. It's often based on rush and vice versa. But that's part of the total picture that it's working on, and that we have a much greater degree of consciousness compared to. They have often fallen between two chairs in previous treatments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e473	What was not mentioned in the presentation was this: what do our psychiatrists and psychologists do in our different institutions? At the end of December last year, I received a letter from a psychiatric patient. She had been admitted to a DPS for seven days as a 24-hour patient, and had not been in contact with either psychologist or psychiatrist on these seven days. And as she writes, "I see they're sitting inside these glass windows all day, but they don't have time for me." Here I think it's a job to do both for the Stortinget and not least for the Minister of Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e480	Yes, I just have to say that I have also asked myself that question, and I have also asked the psychiatrists to meet them. It's a fact, which was documented by a big project this winter, that people may have met for six months in a DPS before meeting a psychiatrist/psychologist to be investigated. It was just 5-10 pst. which was investigated in the first two months. There's no doubt that there's one of the main issues, because how can you start treating a patient before you have a diagnosis, while you just go out and out of space? That is part of the picture that I have tried to draw, and that I have also taken up after the Medical Association's breakthrough project has now been completed. Last week we had a meeting with representatives of all these groups. In order to use the language of the representative Alvheim: it is really a shame that this has been able to continue for as long as it has. This is what we're about to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e485	Earlier in the debate, I commended the Minister of Health for being very clear that in 2005 the growth of resources in psychiatry and in alcohol alone would be higher than in the somatic environment. I also understand that he has clearly informed the regional health companies through his management documents. If it would nevertheless prove that developments are going in a different direction from that of the Minister of Health and I agree, does he have other measures in place to ensure that this actually happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e492	I only have one measure left, and I intend to take advantage of that. I hope that the Minister of Health, if it does not become me, will do so at some point, and that is to ask those responsible for the implementation of this measure, to read the job advertisements, so that we can bring in people who are willing to do what they have been instructed to do from the owner, namely the Minister of Health, on the basis of a unanimous decision of major importance on what should be a priority. We cannot have a health service where for five to six years, priorities are quite different from those to be given priority. You can't have that. That means we have to have someone in there who has the ability and the will to implement it. I don't have more measures to put in than that, but it's also going to be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e497	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e502	Children’s and young people’s drug problems and children’s and young people’s mental problems are increasing, and it paralyzes entire families. It's clear that it feels like an eternity to have to wait for 70 days when your kid is seriously ill and/or rushing and perhaps is in a hurry to be a long-range. Then it is good that this issue has become so central to the presentation of the Council of State, and that a strategy plan is available with objectives of 10 days waiting lists. I very much agree with the views of my colleagues in this area too and, of course, I support the proposal of the representative, Mr Hansen, who was put forward before the debate. For it is in a policy area that we should consider providing a guarantee of treatment, it is for mentally ill children and young people. The perspectives are pretty serious if you don't get this done. In the statement, the Council of State states: ‘Resources are needed to build a DPS to a good professional standard. But I cannot fail to point out that many of the challenges I have referred to are not just about the lack of resources, but about the ability and not least the willingness to bet on the decentralised services." The representative Alvheim used an example in his post that in a way underscores that problem. He referred to the plans of the county council, which no longer applied, and he used an example from the municipality of Kragerø. The municipality built a new hospital home to establish a DPS with 17 daily places, and tilts, then it was just centralized away, despite previously approved plans and despite the Storting's clear, pronounced goals. This creates frustration in the municipality and the employees, who feel powerless. But the most serious thing is that the Council of State also mentions in its statement, that this creates neither trust nor closeness to patients. This the Council of States must look at again. This development is contrary to Storting’s intention in relation to DPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e517	I would like to add some comments to the proposal of John I. Alvheim, who has been promoted in the hall today. As many people have been involved, I myself promoted a Document No. Eight proposals on paediatric psychiatry at the beginning of the meeting today. Let me stress that my proposal concerns the issue of waiting time, i.e. waiting time until the first consultation, but also waiting time until the start of treatment. The starting point of the proposal I have made is to put in place guarantees that strengthen rights, if appropriate, and thus also to clarify political priorities that we all seem to agree on. At the same time, I think it is important for us to recognise that this is not a simple matter. The worst thing we can do is to put in place strong, reinforced, guarantees that in practice cannot be implemented. That is why we in the Labour Party are not prepared to decide to introduce such a guarantee today, with which, as is also stated in the proposal by John I. Alvheim, clear, already defined, deadlines. In my proposal, which was promoted at the start of today's sitting, as I said, it is clear that more thorough assessments of, for example, the situation are needed. the nature of the time limits that may be involved. For this reason, the proposal also contains a clear premise that the Government should be required to promote its own case in which the whole of these measures is assessed, and that it is the decision-making basis for the Storting when, hopefully, we can strengthen the rights of children and youth psychiatrists. This is the reason why the Labour Party will not vote in favour of the proposal by John I. Alvheim today, although I fully believe that the intentions of the proposal are entirely in line with those of the document No. The 8th proposal. Although it may not be easy to get through to it, I would ask John I. Alvheim to consider submitting the proposal to the Government without a trial, so that the proposal can hopefully be taken as a basis when we get a separate case on this in Stortinget in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e524	As I see it, child and youth psychiatry is still the worst coming out, also in the Minister of Care and Health's presentation. Nor do I find that the level of ambition on the part of the Government in relation to children and young people is good enough. It is precisely in childhood and youth that we can treat and prevent severe psychiatric disorders in retrospect. Therefore, we cannot at all accept that we should have a waiting time for the study of children and young people for 71 days. I also do not think ten days are satisfactory, although that is the goal of the Government and to the extent of a positive and good objective. It is important that when these children are referred to the specialist healthcare services in psychiatry with the smallest symptoms, they are considered to be immediate help, and investigation and treatment may be started within three weeks. My proposal is similar to that adopted by the Stortinget in connection with the Cancer Plan, where the first consultations are also to be seen as immediate help. It's no less dangerous for a teenager to have mental problems than it is for a teenager or a 12-year-old to have cancer. It's just as serious each in its own way, both for the patient and for the relatives. Therefore, there should be no waiting time for taking care of children and young people. After all, we have recently received a report that the suicide rate among very young people is alarming — alarming — great. So that's my proposal. I said it was after a template from the cancer plan. The Patient Rights Act gives rights to all of us, including children and young people, in psychiatry. But there is always a professional judgement. When should you take the patient into the investigation, when can it wait, and when can you start treatment, when can it wait? It's this waiting time for kids and young people I don't want to accept. It has to happen promptly, and that's what the proposal is really about. Then it is reassuring to hear here both from the Right and from the Christian People's Party that my proposal would weaken patients' rights. You actually have to be a representative from the Right to be able to express yourself this way at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e533	What has happened since the Cancer Plan was adopted is, of course, what John I. Alvheim had to say is that we have got a new patient rights law, which not least the Progress Party and the Right have been great champions of. That John I. Alvheim's proposal is not necessary, I have his own words on in the Inner East. S. No 149 for 2001-2002, which dealt with a similar proposal by the Socialist Left. At the time, the Progress Party chose to support the Socialist Left proposal, on the grounds that an individual-term patient rights law had not been passed. But they say that «on the proposal in Document No 8:24 for 2001-2002 had been adopted, the existing proposals in... had been redundant.» It is stated in the comments of the Progress Party in the setting. That is a position that I believe also applies today. Not only is it superfluous, but it could weaken the individual patient's rights. The fact that an investigation and treatment should be initiated within 21 days, as the proposal implies, will in effect allow some patients who need immediate treatment to be pushed forward in order to provide patients who may not need treatment within 14 days, three weeks or a month, with this guarantee. There will also be a professional assessment on the basis, but one will then have a time limit to which everyone is covered. As we know, everyone is equally important, here no one is prioritized. That's the challenge of John I. Alvheim's proposal. What's the problem, is what John I. Alvheim himself pointed to in his post, that the professional communities, as well as the patients who lived in Oslo, are moving forward in VG today, have taken over the realities of the law that the Progress Party and the Right have fought. We got a good example of this in the TV 2 news yesterday, when a young girl with anorexia asked the question, When should I get help? How long do I have to wait? She had wanted a treatment offer that had not been given to her. On the TV 2 news this morning, we heard about how patients in the somatic area get good help from a private waiting list office to get quickly in the hospital queue. Then there is no waiting list guarantee that there is something wrong with it, then it is the professional community's perception of what the criteria are for when to need the individual right and when to set that right. If we can't clean it up, no new guarantees will solve the problems. That is why we need to address the challenge – the attitudes of the professional community.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e547	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2079]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e567	Through my interpellation, I have tried to put the spotlight on what I think is an important principleal issue. On 1 January 1991 we carried out a major and comprehensive welfare reform in Norway. Special care was provided for people with mental retardation. People with mental retardation were to be integrated into society. The offer was to be normalised. Old central institutions were wound up. Thousands of individuals were to leave the institutions. In municipalities, the challenge was met offensively, and thousands of dwellings and apartments were established. An entirely new employee organisation was set up. I had the pleasure of working in the health protection for the mentally retarded at this time, i.e. in the HVPU. I therefore know very well that many relatives both rejoiced and were afraid of what was going to happen. They rejoiced because large parts of the old HVPU offer were marked by unworthiness. They were scared because, after all, you knew what you had, but not what you wanted. Many of those who moved out of the institutions had lived there for decades. In practice, many had lived there throughout their lives. On the part of society, on the part of the state, and on the part of the municipalities, this uncertainty that marked many relatives and many of those who lived in the institutions was met with what I would call offensive measures and understanding. Everyone got their individual plan, which described what they were going to move to. With it on the moving container, it was followed by ear-marked agents. The economy was what I would call relatively good. The new offers should ensure good quality. So how's it going? Yes, in this way there is a lot of good research to be used to answer that question. I'm not going to go into that research in this interpellation, but I'm going to answer my own question just as much by making my own impression. My impression is that it has been quite well. Of course, the variations are large from municipality to municipality. There are certainly some individuals who say that the offer was better before, but there are certainly some individuals who say that the offer is much better now. I have the clear impression that the municipalities have largely built up many good offers. The municipalities have taken this seriously and built up many good offers. And it should really just be missing. We made what I would call a kind of informal contract with all those who moved out of the institutions, and with their relatives. That contract contained a clear understanding that the individual would be offered at least as well where they moved – and for most of them it was about moving home – as the offer they had where they were. Then we see that a number of municipalities are struggling with poor local economy. It is, of course, tempting in this context to make a big point of it and get a broad and comprehensive debate on local economy. But I think we are getting plenty of occasion in the time to come, and at least until 12 September. Therefore, I am not now going to place very much emphasis on it, but just notice that a number of municipalities are struggling with what they themselves describe as a poor local economy. We see that the grants offered to people with mental retardation are no longer earmarked but integrated into the framework grant. We see that the municipalities meet a poor local economy by cutting costs, and very often the municipalities do not get out of the care sector, naturally, because such a large proportion of the budgets in the municipalities are linked to the care sector. Then we see that some of those who moved out of the central institutions in connection with the HVPU reform, which was to be normalised, to be integrated, are again offered institutional space. In my opinion, this time it is a worse offer than ever, namely an offer of a nursing home. In the interpellation I use a concrete example from a municipality in my own home area, Flatanger in the Nord-Trøndelag, where on several occasions they have seriously considered moving a 43-year-old woman out of her apartment that she got after moving from Halsetheimen and in which she has worked well. The best intentions of the HVPU reform have been met against this woman, because she has received a great home, and because the municipality has taken seriously to build up a good offer for her, professional and human. But now the municipality is in danger of having to shut down the offer and offer her an ordinary place to stay in hospital. After I picked up this interpellation, I have received enquiries from a number of relatives, in the form of letters, via e-mails and telephones, who say that even in their municipality you are struggling with this. There are questions about terminating offers, and there are questions about offering a nursing home. It may – perhaps – be that this is not a violation of any law. But at least it is a breach of the clear moral obligations I believe we have to all those people with mental retardation who have moved out of the central institutions to get better, normalized and integrated services in the municipalities a little over 14 years ago. In my opinion, young people with disabilities generally have nothing to do with nursing homes, and it's not that there's anything different even though disability is a mental retardation. That's why I eagerly await the answer from the Minister of Health to what's my main question: What kind of rights are the mentally retarded and their relatives in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e595	The aim of the HVPU reform was to liquidate large, central institutions for the integration of people with developmental disabilities into the community. In my opinion, this has led to a significant enrichment for our neighbourhoods, while people with a developmental disability have been given the opportunity to participate more fully in society. It is a clear objective that persons in need of practical and personal assistance should have the opportunity to live and live independently. It is a municipal responsibility to facilitate this. In my opinion, it is not acceptable for younger people to stay in institutions for the elderly if they want a different offer. This is why the Government has taken action with regard to municipalities to help younger recipients get their own, suitable housing. The interpellation contains two questions, and I will first answer the question of the rights of mentally impaired people and their relatives in such a situation as the representative Hanssen has described. Secondly, I would like to explain the Government's action to enable municipalities to fulfil their important role as a well-being service provider, which is the second question. As regards the rights, the general rule is that the municipality is obliged to provide the necessary care services where the recipient lives or wants to live. This principle follows both the objective of the HVPU reform and the existing legislation. Under the Social Services Act, the municipality has a duty to consult with the user, and a great deal of emphasis is to be placed on what they or he may think. The Patient Rights Act has its own rules of consent and the patient’s right to participation and information in addition to rules on information to the patient’s immediate family. Derogations from the general rule that the recipient is entitled to care services where he resides may be granted in exceptional cases. This may, for example: if it would cause particular practical difficulties for the municipality to provide the services there or if this would require disproportionate resources. In all cases, the municipality must give priority to its services in relation to the needs to be met in each case. In some cases, the service offer may or should be modified due to new circumstances. In such cases, the recipient is subject to a new individual decision. Decisions on the award or modification of a service offer may be appealed to the Board of Appeal, which will be the County or the State Health Authority, depending on the nature of the decision. The Board of Appeal must assess the decision normally and decide whether the decision should be maintained or amended. The Board of Appeal may also refer the decision back to the Municipality for review and the Board of Appeal and the supervisory activities may ensure the legal certainty of the user in the design of the service provision. Experience has shown that the communication of the municipality with the user and its relatives is essential for the proper adaptation of the service provision to the user’s needs. I would therefore like to stress that it is important that the municipality makes a wholehearted effort to achieve good cooperation with the users and their relatives. The representative Hanssen was concerned that he himself worked in HVPU care in 1991. I was the rapporteur in 1991, when we got this reform, and I agree with the representative Hanssen that there was a great commitment in the municipalities to facilitating this in an individual and good way. In the case of the single case in the municipality of Flatanger in the Nord-Trøndelag, where there has been a discussion about terminating the care and care provision of a multi-disabled woman who moved to the municipality as a result of the HVPU reform, I have been in contact with the municipality. I have talked to the rapporteur about this. I know that the Health Authority and the County Council have met with them on the matter, and I assume that the individual matter mentioned in the interview will find its solution in line with the rules and the law that I have explained here. As far as the second question is concerned, what the government will do to improve the local economy, that's enough, as the representative says, that we can hold on for a long time and talk about it. It will probably also be part of the theme in the future by a date not so far in September. I will nevertheless take advantage of the opportunity to point out what we have said about these things in the Sem Declaration. Here it was added to a real growth in the income of the municipal sector during the current ageing period. Despite increased pension costs in 2002 and tax failures in 2003, this objective has been pursued. The level of total municipal income is, in fact, DKK 11 billion higher in 2005 than it was in 2003. As far as the 2006 income framework is concerned, the Government will of course come back to this in the municipal proposition that we are promoting, if not for a very long time. Of course, we are concerned that municipalities should make best use of available resources. Therefore, emphasis has been placed on stimulating the local authority's own opportunities to obtain efficient resource use within the current framework. The government's modernisation policy in the municipal sector runs along two main lines to release funds for the most important, such as: this case is about. Firstly, it is a goal for the Government to strengthen the municipalities by increasing the space within which they work. Increased action rooms allow municipalities to design their services in line with local circumstances and to adapt their overall needs. The government will also end the development work that helps municipalities to become a better service provider. This is done by developing performance and efficiency indicators and by contributing to improving the quality of care. In particular, I would like to refer to the cooperation agreement with the Local Governments' Central Association on quality development in the care services. In the cooperation agreement with KS, this includes, inter alia: focussed on continuing work in the community networks for innovation and efficiency. For 2004, the Cooperative Government has set up a new, earmarked, top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive users. However, the main guideline, which the representative had in mind, is that the funds are part of a general framework, so that municipalities can make their own priorities. I assume that the representative Hanssen and I agree that the sense is evenly distributed between those who are politicians in Oslo and those who are out in the municipalities. Those of us who have been politicians in the municipalities took it with us when we came here. This means that the priorities are often the most closely related to the users. However, the purpose of this earmarked grant is to ensure that users who require an extra large amount of resources from the municipal service provider will receive the best possible offer, regardless of the municipality’s financial situation. It will often be the case that there are large rashes in small municipalities. Therefore, I think it is wise to have such arrangements. Finally, I would also like to point out that in the 2004 report, when we set up this scheme, something has been said about this top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive users. The purpose of this appropriation is, therefore, to ensure that users who require substantial resources from the municipal service provider, a good offer, regardless of the economic situation of the municipality. It was actually distributed over NOK 1.5 billion in 2004. It was about approx. 350 municipalities and almost 3,400 users. According to the Government’s assessment, this is a system that is predictable for municipalities and ensures the operation of measures for resource-intensive users in municipalities, regardless of whether they live in institutions or in their own homes. This scheme is now to be fully evaluated in 2005. It is important to know if the scheme really ensures resource-intensive users a good offer, which we all agree is that it should be, and which was the starting point for the whole HVPU reform. As I mentioned at the outset, the Government has taken action to ensure that younger people with a need for assistance do not become residents of institutions for the elderly. Cooperation has been established with user organisations and two rehabilitation institutions, as well as with the county officials, who have guided the municipalities in this work. I also expect the municipalities themselves to take responsibility for ensuring a decent life for those who need the most security networks in society, namely those who depend on assistance to cope with general, everyday tasks. These people must not become a balancing item in the municipal budget. Within a total framework of NOK 225 billion in income for municipalities, I think it is possible to give priority to a housing offer that gives younger people with a need for assistance an opportunity to live independently. As the representative Hanssen himself said, the municipal sector – at least itself – points to poor municipal economy. I seem to remember that since I started politics in the mid-1970s, the tune has been much the same. You feel that you have needs that could be met. They are present if you had a financial framework for it, but within the framework that is, it must be possible to give priority to those who need it the most. It's this group, the individual cases, the representative Hansen, at my discretion, has addressed in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e631	I thank the Council of State for a real answer. I want to focus on the issue of rights issues. As the Council of State says, the municipality is obliged to provide the necessary care services. The municipality has obligations to consult with the user. But then this is the kind of thing that, after all, is in the system, which is linked to meeting, being positive and being responsive to the user if it does not cause particular practical problems to the municipality, or if it requires particularly large resources, preferably financial resources. Well, that's what we're experiencing around us, both in Flatanger and in all of the things we're reading about where young people with disabilities still live in hospitals, that the municipality says that there are particularly great practical problems, and it has particularly great economic consequences to prevent the move to a nursing home. The question that remains in this Chamber, when we now have a separate scheme for users with extra large financial consequences, is whether this room should also be entitled – vis-à-vis the municipalities – to say that when a separate scheme for users with additional financial costs is in place, there must be an agreement on the other hand that it must end up having young people with disabilities in hospital homes, and there must be a clear signal to the supervisory authorities that, in the event of such cases, the supervisory authorities must clearly respect the disabled who do not want to live in hospitals. Then, of course, I agree with the Council of State that it should be unnecessary, and it should be within the sphere of municipal autonomy and the good locality, so that you didn't have to do this. But unfortunately, experience suggests something else. At least I don't think it's unreasonable for the Storting to set terms for a system that takes the top costs. Putting that condition without this arrangement would have been a different story. It might be interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about such an approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e642	I share Mr Hansen's basic approach to this. There is a constructive contract between the two levels of government, with the fact that we have a system that provides financial compensation for those municipalities that have special needs. The caregiver has a right under the Social Services Act to make an offer at his disposal that is reasonable in relation to the situation in which he is in. It is not considered a reasonable offer initially to have a permanent stay in a nursing home against your will. It's definitely. Now, perhaps mentally retarded people are in some cases a small exception within the group of about 125-130 young people, I think it's per person. today, who are residents of old-age and sick homes. Obviously, that's a situation we can't have. Now I have understood it so that approx. half of them have not opposed living in the offer they have. For the other half, I think it's such that a large part of them are at a maximum temporary stay. We know that some young people who are exposed to traffic accidents, who have become physically disabled, suddenly come home to the municipality, and it often takes some time to build up these offers. The point is you can't accept this. The supervisory authorities have the powers to refuse to accept the situation of young people in an old age institution or in a nursing home against their will. Then, as the representative Hanssen finally said, the user must be given consideration. The right is on the user's side, and then the municipal level and the state have to figure out the offer. So far, I have received very few enquiries relating to the issue of former HVPU patients and nursing homes. It has often been about other groups of younger people. But go like -- it's just as unworthy for both groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e651	In the interpellation, the representative Hanssen addresses a very important matter, a problem that the Government through St. reported. No 40 for 2002-2003 and the 2004 budget put on the agenda by establishing a new top-level funding mechanism to allow precisely resource-intensive users who so wish to move out of the elderly institution and to move into their own apartment by the end of 2005. Unfortunately, we experience that almost without exception, the relatives have to fight a hard fight so that their closest friends do not become sick homes, with a lack of care and care they have a claim and need. Despite state intervention, it is claimed that the number of young, heavier users is increasing in older institutions, and unfortunately we experience too often reading in the media about just such tragic cases as described by the interpellant. Moving a young, multi-disabled woman out of her apartment into an elderly institution and thus taking away from her a vital care and care supply is directly inhumane from my point of view. Municipalities stemming from their responsibilities by allowing highly disabled people — often very young people — to remain in hospital homes without any particular kind of follow-up — to break up with most of what a total population has adopted. Regular training and good care for this group of patients are very important. When we know that such treatment is almost absent in older institutions, and that many rarely or never are taken out of bed, I dare again claim that such treatment is directly inhumane. In St.meld. No 40 for 2002-2003, the Government, with the support of an overall increase, notes that: ‘... young persons with disabilities who wish to be able to move out of an institution and to receive an individually adapted accommodation and service provision. It is not acceptable for disabled young people who do not want to live in institutions. Everyone has the right to live an independent and active life regardless of the need for assistance.’ When we know that the total cost of a decent treatment offer for these users can quickly amount to between 2 and 3 million. kr a year, it would be thought that the state top finance, which covers 80 pst. of local government expenditure, would stimulate municipalities to contribute to providing their users with decent housing, care and care services outside the elderly institution. The Minister of Health refers to the evaluation of the Top Finance Facility during 2005. Such an evaluation is urgent and is important in order to ensure that any shortcomings or weak joints can be corrected as soon as possible to the benefit of users, and not least of their dependants, who should release such an additional burden as it is necessary to fight against the public in order for their loved ones to have a decent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e675	Initially, I would like to thank the interpellant for putting this matter further on the agenda, for this is a very important matter to discuss. It's quite obvious that the will to do something is present in this room, but the problem is just that it takes such an infinite amount of time. If we were to angle this up to, for example, In fact, the Stortinget decided that all those who wanted it would be moved out by 2005. Now we're almost halfway through the year. It is referred to, for example: the top-level funding model for particularly resource-intensive users. Yeah, it's in place. But we should not forget that at the same time, the so-called relocation grant has been removed from the municipalities that had these people in the institution, which was very helpful when it comes to establishing an offer outside the institutions at that stage. The evaluation of the top funding model in 2005 is very important. I believe that this should be done so quickly that we have time to put forward proposals for amendments, and at the latest in the 2006 budget. It is said that an evaluation will be carried out during 2005, and you will not be finished until the end of the year, and then you will have to postpone until 2006 to take a decision on it – and then time goes by. I think it's been long enough. The last number we have on so-called young people in hospitals in Norway today is 132. And it's right that the Council points out that approx. half have said that they want to move out. But the question we have to ask ourselves is, what rights does this group have that are either about to move into an institution or are in a separate home, but that has a daily life that, in my opinion at least, is not sufficiently organized, so that they have a decent life? What are we going to do with this? I don't think the reference we make to the Social Services Act is enough. The Social Services Act provides a number of recordings such as: are linked to particularly large challenges and particularly large financial resources. I think we need to look at how we can attach rights and better facilitate a worthy life for these people – and it's a paradox after all these debates we've had. This week this is the second debate in the case of young people out of nursing homes, and then it's strange that we're still in a situation where there's more moving in than moving out of nursing homes! We can't actually live with that anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e688	Over the last 10-15 years, the Storting has adopted several major reforms that have been of great importance to Norwegian municipalities. The HVPU reform was in many ways maybe the first of these. Since then, we have had elderly reform, psychiatry plan, hospital reform, rus reform and kindergarten reform. In common with all these reforms, they have made new and major demands on the municipalities and municipal services and services. Another common denominator is that the vigour and willingness of the Storting to adopt reforms has not always been accompanied by an equal willingness to take responsibility for the funding of the reforms, perhaps with the exception of the kindergarten reform. Thus, over the years, there has been an ever-increasing gap between the tasks that local authorities have to perform and the legitimate expectations that this has created for the population, and the ability and resources of local authorities to solve the tasks and meet expectations. As a result, the situation in many municipalities has become such that different groups of help and assistance groups can be set up against each other. In parallel with the fact that new groups in need of support and assistance have received political focus from both the Stortinget and the political authorities in each municipality, others may, for example. mental retardation, getting into the background and thus getting a worse offer. Most people with mental retardation need a long-term and complex service provision. This places great demands on both resources and competences. Some are very resource-intensive, and there is a question of whether the funding mechanism for resource-intensive users is good enough to ensure a good and worthwhile offer. I don't think so. I don't think it's good enough now to end the unworthy situation that we've had for too long, that more people have been in, with still a lot of young people with disabilities placed in nursing homes and that new ones actually move in. Then I register that the Minister of Health and Health is engaged in municipal freedom of action. Yeah, that's important. However, municipal freedom of action must also have an economic space to ensure that municipalities are not forced to choose which groups and individuals of needing help should be given priority. Here at Stortinget, more people with great pathos have mentioned how unworthy this is, and we cannot discharge ourselves from our responsibility to help make the economy so that we end these unworthy conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e701	The Christian People's Party is concerned that the care and care of people with mental retardation should not become a balancing post. We are also concerned that young people with disabilities should have the opportunity to move out of hospitals if they want to, at least no one should be there against their will. Therefore, I would like to thank the interpellant for a commendable initiative when he focuses on the rights of this group. It may not be the family members who, in each individual situation, are forced to fight by the fact that the disabled are given the care and the dishes they are actually entitled to. However, I see no need to go into all of these dishes, when I found that the Minister of Health answered well the question of the possibilities and remedies that this group has. But I want to emphasize that one has to build on some of the purposes of the HVPU reform and that it is important that one manages to follow up, so that it becomes more than just words. One of the major objectives was that this reform should end the institutional services for people with developmental disabilities. It is not without reason that this reform, at least what I know mainly from my area in the West, was called housing reform, which has received both criticism and praise. But the important thing about this reform was that the developing world should be able to live a life as far up to the normal as possible. Then it becomes relatively unsustainable for young people with disabilities to be in hospitals against their own will. The Christian People's Party is occupied by the fact that human dignity is fixed once and for all, like a great staff stone. I'm glad that in this interpellation debate, regardless of the political party, there is very much support for this field, that a non-grading people is based on performance and functional levels. I thought this debate very well shows that it is not the colour of the party that determines what interest you have in this, but that there is a genuine interest in this room to ensure that not only those who come into the matter that the interpellant takes up, but also young people in general who are at the hospital, will get the help they need. I would like to point out two tools that I thought could be used more widely to improve the ability of a municipality to decide for itself. This applies to the individual plan of social services laws, that they are used in such a way that those with disabilities receive a more holistic and co-ordinated service provision. The second is for user-controlled personal assistance. So here it came up that one is going to evaluate the top finance model. I think it's a good idea that he's now being evaluated, and that one can see that there's something that needs to be changed to make this unsustainable situation better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e716	First, honey to the interpellant, which addresses a problem that occupies a lot of municipalities. There may not be a lot of people, but still too many – of the weakest people we have in this society. There has been talk about the major reforms. The HVPU reform is one of the largest and one of the first of such major reforms, where a transferred task to the municipalities and thus charged them with expenditure that was not – and is not – taken into account to ensure through funding to the municipalities. The Central Party has proposed that such reforms should – and should – be assessed and covered financially by those who adopt such reforms and require other levels of government to perform these tasks. That's not happening. Those who most often adopt and assign such tasks to the municipalities are the state in the case of landfilling and management. These tasks are transmitted, preferably in fine words and formulations, that this is done in the name of near democracy, for the benefit of the users and the close, good and adapted solutions. But it's not like that. In practice, tasks are read over to the municipalities that they cannot solve, tasks that we are discussing here afterwards as unsolved and inadequate, where we are talking about unworthy solutions and relationships. The reason for many of these unworthy circumstances and solutions lies in the fact that we have not taken into account and assumed responsibility for the availability of adequate funding and resources to solve the problems associated with these so-called reforms. The Minister of Health and Welfare referred to the system of state top funding for resource-intensive users. It is in many and many very good, and in principle the Centre Party has fought for such an arrangement and got it into principle. But the scheme is not good enough in practice. The threshold before government funding systems break down needs to be reduced. I think it has to go down to a level that corresponds to the cost of a nursing home. But I know that in some municipalities there are very small margins and differences that trigger the requirement that people move into a nursing home. Therefore, the amount limit must fall to this level. Sufficient co-financing by the State must be provided. This means that most of this amount should be State-owned, and not least, the calculations for this should be good and well known and done in such a way as to be fair to both users and municipalities, those who are to carry out the work. Then it must not be as it has now been, that unforeseeable and uncertain have been introduced into this, which means that, despite this scheme, people are moved from their homes, where they thrive, and into institutions — and more often older institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e729	This is a chance I have to seize when I have it, to praise both the committee and not least the interpellant for addressing the challenges you face. Probably a lot of desperate parents look at their young. They often have them in their homes. When they don't do it anymore, providing institutional space for some municipalities can be putting them in a nursing home. It's tragic. I think the municipalities are doing everything they can to avoid getting into that situation. It's critical, it's media postings, and it's actually going to be like that if they can't follow up on the intentions of the Storting. The last representative who was up here, from the Center Party, was in the middle of a moment that I think is worth taking with me further into the work. Where is the State funding package to be implemented? Should it be before approx. 700,000 kroner net? This is an assessment theme. We also see that the county council often gets engaged, but there are very few cases where the municipalities are required by the county council to offer a better offer than the one outlined. When I stand here now, I also want to ask for an assessment in the case of parents and relatives who take their parents abroad – in that context, the municipalities no longer have any responsibility for someone who is mentally retarded and who needs care. Nor does a person who has arthritis, and who has better benefit from being in a warmer country, have any responsibility for following up. It may also be appropriate to consider a regulation stating that such a service offer should have a stronger protection. But otherwise, I think that the support the Stortinge provides is good to take into the community when we're going to distribute the tight frames and funds that are. When, for example: for support contacts for the mentally retarded group, this may be some of the resources that need to be saved in some municipalities. This has at least some focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e739	Let me start by thanking good colleagues for their strong commitment. What is quite obvious in this matter is that here the Storting has one will. This is not the case for the party-political dividing lines, we agree. We agree that young people should not live in a nursing home against their will. It's as simple as that. Young people should not be allowed to live in a nursing home against their will. We have also, for once, taken the consequences of our political will by establishing a more or less good system to contribute financially to the municipalities. I think the post from Harald T. Nesvik was very good. So we have repeatedly adopted this, and every time we debate it, we are completely crystal clear in our views. And yet, as Nesvik says, we experience that there are more young people moving into a nursing home than moving out. We can't live with it. We can't live with it for the sake of the people involved, but we can't live with it for the sake of ourselves either. It must be possible to put power behind such a position. Now we have to think: what are we going to do to put power behind that position? I believe that, on the basis of this and several debates, it should be natural for the Minister of Health to have a conversation with Health Director Lars Hanssen and stress that the Stortinget, that the authorities, clearly state that it is not acceptable for young people to be placed in hospital against their will, and so clearly express it through their own economic system – among other things. to avoid this. As a result, it should be clear that, if such questions are raised in appeal proceedings, not by the county council, but by the local health authorities exercised by the county council, it must be unthinkable that the complainant should not be supported. At least there could have been an operational action to end this debate, whether the Minister of Health could be willing – he does not have to respond spontaneously – to consider taking such a conversation, so as to make sure that the head of the Health Inspectorate also has the understanding of the Stortinget so far as the degrees expressed his will in this question are concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e748	I look at the welcome of the representative, Mr. Hansen, as a relatively modest measure. I'll definitely do that. But what I intend to do now after this debate is to get me a detailed overview of the approx. 130 who are in the hospital: how many exactly are there who want to move out? How many people don't have that need? Of that half, approximately, that we don't want to be there, how long has each of them been there? And what is the individual plan in each municipality? What time horizon do they have to get this down to micro, so we're absolutely sure that we're talking about safe and good realities? You can definitely imagine that a significant number of them. 60-65, which is in a hospital, but which does not want to be there, is going into other housing conditions, but you are there until further notice, until something has been done about this. Then the situation is very different than if there is someone who is permanently placed in a nursing home, for life. So there are two things: I'm definitely going to take the call in relation to the Health Authority when it comes to dealing with individual cases, but – perhaps the most important thing – I'm going to start this investigation and get the members of the Social Committee to know as soon as it's practical.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e762	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e768	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e775	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e810	During the debate, Mr Alvheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that when children and young people under the age of 18 are referred to Psychiatric specialist health services, this should be considered as immediate help. Investigation and treatment shall be initiated within three weeks.» The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have expressed their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-04-14.ana.ud1391e827	The President will then propose that the statement by the Minister of Health at the Stortinget meeting on 11 April 2005 on the situation in the field of mental health protection be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
