ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e34	The representative Anita Apelthun Seal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the East-Agder County, Lilly Tønnevold Sackeland, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e61	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e72	The medicinal product area is characterised by contradictions of interest. Many proposals for new measures have come individually and partially under-coordinated, which has made the work on these issues inconspicuous and difficult in the United Kingdom. Therefore, in 2004, the Stortinget asked for a broad and comprehensive review of the area. The main themes are: prescription and use of medicinal products and medical supplies cost of reimbursement schemes This big message provides a good response to much of this, but some of the leaders of the department can be perceived as somewhat unclear and underoperative, and in some cases incorrect. Although the Committee is divided in some areas, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I must say that there is a great deal of unanimity and a clear majority in essential areas. I am very pleased with the constructive will shown by all parties to achieve the most complete and good result. The medicinal product area has a high public interest in addition to the fact that stakeholders such as the pharmaceutical industry, other pharmaceutical suppliers, health professionals groups, pharmacies, patient organisations, health professionals' organisations, public authorities, etc. of course have a great interest in the decisions to be taken. This has also shaped the amount of input. This is also natural and desirable when considering that medicinal products are placed on the market in Norway for up to DKK 16 billion, corresponding to a turnover of around EUR 16 billion. NOK 3 400 per year. the population. The public finances approx. 70 pst. of which, the remainder is financed through various forms of self-payment. In my handling of the matter, I have taken a suspiciously high proportion of mismedication. It is stated in the notice on p. 25: ‘Studies show that mismedication occurs to a greater or lesser extent in approximately 20 per cent of all treatment courses in which medicinal products are used.’ This is serious. The errors relate to incorrect medical evaluations, failure of diagnosis, failure of choice of medicinal product, incorrect choice of dose size, choice of for many medicinal products at the same time, lack of drug withdrawal, misunderstanding between doctor, patient and caregivers, improper use by the patient forgetting to take prescribed medicinal product, patient's misunderstanding of instructions for use and that the patient does not follow the recommendations. I have tried in the proposals and comments that have been submitted to clarify this and proposed measures. Details about this misuse can be found about going down to individual patient groups. Yes, there are disease groups where approx. 50 pst. of the cases. Therefore, there is reason to claim, as stated in the Communication, that 5-10 pst. by all hospitalisations in intrinsic departments may be returned to the misuse of medicinal products. In the wake of this, many deaths could have been avoided. The communication also refers to a Swedish study, where it is said that the misuse and inefficient use of medicines costs Swedish society up to NOK 10 billion. The transfer to Norwegian conditions would be approximately equivalent. 5 billion kroner. In Norway, we have no better systems than the Swedish ones for the proper use of medicines, said a little squarely. All of this is serious and requires action. I want to draw from this some of the main concepts: In one of the main areas of interest, the Committee has been divided, the Working Party together with the SV and the Centre being the minority, and it is in the field of pharmacy. I'm sorry about that. But I would appeal to the Council of State to take the time to assess and plan, so that we do not go into an unfortunate and uncontrolled development where the consequences may be different from what was intended. It is essential that pharmacies continue to be specialised, in order to maintain people's confidence in pharmacies. The apothecary, as also stated in the notification, shall be a pharmacovigilance arena. It is an important task, and pharmacies must be able to handle such tasks, both economically and professionally. An overall committee has said that the population’s access to pharmacies is a fundamental health concern, and it also says that one has to do a lot to maintain the pharmacies throughout the country. There is reason to remember that the many new pharmacies that have come into existence are in cities and other densely built districts. Only a few pharmacies have come to municipalities that do not already have pharmacies, and of these we have about. 200. The above-mentioned minority has, among other things: therefore contrary to the Government’s proposal to enhance the pharmaceutical law’s requirement that pharmacies be physically available. They should still be. Nor do we want to weaken pharmacies by allowing healthcare companies to buy directly from wholesalers other than those for which it is currently open. I believe that free shipping, mail orders and Internet sales raise fundamental questions about the safety of long-distance transport, guidance from a source other than the nearest local pharmacy and the safe communication and treatment of prescriptions of pharmacies that neither the prescriber nor the patient already knows. Any change in the current Pharmacy Act requires a thorough investigation of the consequences. in the case of district pharmacists, but also in the case of other pharmacies which cannot be won in a system in which all borders are abolished. In the case of Internet commerce, such mechanisms cannot function until electronic prescriptions have reached a large extent. I see that we cannot be unprepared for the possible use of Internet mechanisms, but first electronic prescriptions must become a reality, and then one should identify through trial projects what action needs to be taken, what restrictions you need to put in place, and what security challenges are there, in the interests of the prescriber, the place of delivery, the patient as a recipient and long-range transport requirements, plus requirements for guidance and information. I and the minority believe it is obvious that mail orders and Internet sales cannot be started now. Proper use of medicinal products, which is vital for both patients’ health and socio-economic needs to improve information on medicinal products. This means that there is a need for information on medicinal products from a professional environment independent of both the interests of the manufacturer of medicinal products and the authorities. Public information shall be based on three bases: the National Knowledge Centre for Health, the National Medicines Agency and the Directorate for Social and Health. It is very important that the division of labour between them is clear, without a dispute of competence. I am pleased that, in a letter to me dated 3 May 2005, the Minister of Health and Health clearly states that the National Knowledge Centre, even though it is an administrative body governed by the Directorate of Social Affairs and Health, should be completely independent on professional issues and not subject to any leadership in professional matters by the authorities. A comprehensive committee emphasises greater targeted efforts towards patients who are most in need of improved adverse and inappropriate drug use. That is why, as one of several measures, we are today going to adopt more use of multidose packs than is the case, among other things. by ensuring State funding for this action. An area hardly affected in the notification is the serious misuse of medicinal products in children. Fortunately, a joint committee concluded on a proposal to increase the competence of the medical treatment of children by establishing a national multidisciplinary competence network. In a scientific article in the Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association No. 11/2005 refers to the fact that half of all medical treatment for children in hospitals is done without medicinal products being tested or authorised for use in children. And further, the same article says that the primary health service is up to 35 pst. by the medicinal products prescribed for children, without formal authorisation. This is far from satisfactory. The Committee has been concerned with measures for better prescription and safer use of medicinal products, not least in the primary health care. Although there is no majority in favour of the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV to investigate the issue of pharmaceutical committees in general practice with a view to initiating trial procedures, I expect the Ministry to nevertheless consider this measure and come back to the Stortinget with constructive proposals. Experiences where this has been tried on a voluntary basis are good, and the need is screaming. The misuse of municipal health services is very worrying. I refer to what I have said about medicines for children as an example, and I could further exemplify the misuse of medicines in the elderly. I would also like to mention a relationship that has not been included in the notification, and that is the professional community we have in clinical pharmacology, which has units in all the health regions of the country. These are both manufacturer- and authority-independent. It is necessary to develop the pharmaceutical information activities in the health regions based on cooperation between the existing regional pharmaceutical information centres, RELIS, and the clinical pharmacological units. This also coincides with an overall committee asking for an investigator to examine the organisational model of the five RELIS based on the most authoritative pharmaceutical information. I would also like to mention the importance of the Norwegian pharmaceutical manual as the most comprehensive pharmaceutical information aimed at the general public published in our country. It is therefore important to continue with state full funding and as a professionally independent measure. I would like to stress the importance of now deciding that the Government will present proposals for prescribing active substance, so-called generic prescription. This should no longer be a voluntary arrangement, but a imposition. I refer here to the concern expressed by the Ministry in its communication that no more generic prescription has been implemented. This may lead to more correct pharmaceutical use and also lower pharmaceutical costs, while at the same time making use of the knowledge and background of pharmacists. It is also a point to contribute to resolving the links between the pharmaceutical industry and many doctors by prescribing a specific named medicinal product when this is not necessarily for the patient’s benefit or when another and cheaper medicinal product could be chosen. With regard to the reimbursement arrangements, the Committee generally supports the main lines of the notification, with some clarifications and one clear adjustment. It is important that the reimbursement system ensures people as equal and easy as possible access to medicines regardless of their ability to pay. The system must be comprehensible, acceptable and predictable to all parties. With regard to the inclusion of new medicinal products in the BIP, the Committee agrees with the Ministry to remove the provision for automatic rejection of new medicinal products only because they are new and do not have a corresponding reimbursement point in the BIP. But without raising the so-called minimum limit of 5 million. This new line has a smaller value. That is why the Committee agrees that this limit must be substantially raised. Support is provided for the preferred medicinal product scheme. One main reason is that it can contribute to achieving the objective of better and cheaper drug use. At the same time, it is essential that the system function flexibly in the interests of patients, based on the best medical judgement of doctors. Patients must be guaranteed the best treatment and the ministry's work on the guidelines must be carried out in close dialogue with the clinical disciplines. I think this is very important. We have received many recordings indicating that there is too much dispute about professional relations that should have been resolved before a matter comes to Stortinget. The Committee is pleased that individual reimbursement is to be a safety net for smaller patient groups and not a supporting element of the reimbursement policy. Over the last few years, we have seen a gradual increase in this system. Now this has to be reversed, and we think that's right. I also think it is gratifying that the Committee has agreed to create a system of temporary reimbursement under the bladder prescription system, in particular. to ensure that good medicines can be used more quickly for the benefit of patients. I would like to address the proposals to which the Workers' Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e153	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e156	The medicinal product notification has been given the title ‘Course for proper use of medicinal products’, perhaps a bit inspired by the Minister’s previous responsibility, shipping. But the message could also have had the title ‘Real pill in the right mouth at the right time’. In Norway, a total of DKK 16 billion is traded in medicinal products annually, and medicinal products are essential to improve health and quality of life in a disease situation. Where there is a need for such a review of the medicinal policy provided for in this Communication, it is recognised that the use of medicinal products is not pain, risk or free of charge. In this field of tension between good intentions, which is the purpose of drug use, on the one hand, and risks, mismedication, strong commercial interests and significant social costs on the other, we need a new pharmaceutical policy. In this field of stress, there are many interests, all of which have good intentions in the first place, but it is our job to pursue a policy that takes care of the patient's interests. For example, it may initially seem that it is in the patient’s interest to have access to the latest and most expensive medicine as soon as possible. But it's not like that. If the latest and most expensive medicine is thus at the expense of better treatment, e.g. in hospitals, or that the patient had had the same benefit from a more reasonable medicine, such a one-sided objective is contrary to the patient’s interests. If this medicine is given in combination with other medications without this being coordinated, it can be directly harmful to the patient. The easiest thing is often a pill, but it's not always the best. Therefore, it is essential that the notification is consistently focused on the correct use of medicinal products. If it is the guiding principle of politics, the other challenges will solve themselves. This is also the main content of the message. A number of measures are proposed to ensure exactly this: proper use of medicinal products. This position has also been reinforced by the examination of the Committee. New technology also makes this easier. It is, of course, the individual doctor who decides essentially the choice of medicinal products. Therefore, the medical competence and information about the medicinal product are crucial. I am pleased that the size of the suspension gives its support to the preferred medicinal product scheme, and that the reimbursement conditions should be clarified. Combined with the electronic prescription register, this would be an appropriate way of ensuring the correct use of medicinal products for medicinal products with a patent. In order to ensure that one uses the resources it has in the healthcare system for the benefit of the patient, there should be no reason to use the most expensive medicinal product if a cheaper one produces the same result. Of course, the doctor should be able to print out other medicines whose medical reasons speak for it. The majority of the Committee would also like the Government to investigate how existing peer groups can be used to ensure the correct use of medicinal products. These are groups that exist today and to which there is not much bureaucracy involved in getting a discussion on better drug use. So I'm excited about this investigation, and I'm counting on the Department to include the Lege Association in this work. The majority of the Committee is also in favour of generic prescriptions for medicinal products, and asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget to that effect. When industry uses a lot of resources to market a patented medicinal product, it is not just to provide good information. It is also for both doctor and patient to remember the product name, so that it is stronger when faced with competition. A number of the tools to which the Stortinget has previously joined, to which we subscribe in connection with this message, mean that patients and doctors will have to deal more closely with different products, but the same active substance. There is therefore reason to believe that the industry will respond to this by marketing the product name even more strongly. Therefore, introducing generic prescription from the first day would be an effective counterweight to this. The notification also launches a number of measures to simplify authorisation systems, thereby reducing the role of the Grand Duchy in relation to each individual medicinal product. The majority reinforce this by proposing a significant increase in the de minimis threshold. But we can never organise ourselves away from the role of the Storting in prioritising health and other societal tasks, and in health between the different sectors. No automatic pre-execution rights can be granted, as the patient will lose in the long term. In future, if the Storting is to avoid being called into question by the way in which these roles are handled, the Storting itself must ensure that we deal with these matters in such a way that it becomes a priority case based on professional information from the Department, rather than a random outcome of lobbying. Finally, I would like to commend the rapporteur and the other members of the committee for finding an agreement here on the most important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e184	Initially, I would like to ask you to fix something that must be an incursion in the setting. On page 17 of Chapter 13 on the prescription of active substance, the Committee notes in the first column: ‘The Committee considers that since professional objections can hardly be raised since pharmacists have the necessary competence, a requirement of generic prescription should already be imposed on them.’ So this is a comitology comment. It is quite clear that the Progress Party is not going to be here, given the comment we have in the second column, which is just going towards introducing generic prescriptions right now. I want to ask that it be corrected. The rapporteur has given a very good account of what is going on in the notification and handling of it. I share the rapporteur's view that there is, in fact, a majority and an overall committee that are behind the main points in the vote. So it's quite obvious that there's some other point that, in the opinion of the Progress Party, is deficient, and that has not been captured either. In connection with Innst. O. No 29 for 2003–04, which proposed a broad and comprehensive review of the field of drugs, the focus was on the fact that for a number of years we have had major and minor changes that have been very fragmented. Suddenly, there has been some change in one proposition, and then there has been a change in a common proposition on popular security, and then there has been a change in the state budget. There have been very many different types of changes in the field of medicines over time, without having sat down and taken a comprehensive and broad review of this field. In this connection, I would actually like to pay tribute to the Government for having done so. But it's obvious that this should have been done earlier. It has not been possible to obtain a majority in relation to the previous proposals which have been properly promoted. But fortunately, we have now got a case, and I think we can get a lot of good out of this case. Looking at this review, as well as taking into account the changes in the Pharmacy Act that came into force on 1 March 2001, it is quite clear that what has to do with the area of medicine and the relationship between the public, patient and doctor has been rapidly developing and changing considerably in relation to what was used in the past. And it has been absolutely necessary to have more up-to-date legislation in the field of medicines. It has previously been said that there is a good situation description in the notification concerning the medicinal product area. And that's it. It is a very good situational description, both related to the lack of information, of the way we have driven pharmaceutical policy, and not least of the relationship between prescriber and patient. Therefore it has been absolutely necessary to have this review. I see that there's some point where there's a majority on one side and a minority on the other. I now want to take part of those points where the Progress Party is in either a majority or a minority comment. One point is made on a proposal from the Party of Advances, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre on a reimbursement scheme for cellular toxicity treatment in hospitals, based on the fact that the expenditure is covered by the Reichstrygdeverket. We've seen a lot of situations where patients have actually had problems getting the best drugs for their disease because the funding arrangements have been too bad. Now, fortunately, there is an overall committee that points out the issues. But the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the government parties, will look at this further, investigate and evaluate, but they do not come up with concrete solutions such as the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party do. This is sad, because here we could actually be able to solve one thing. Even if you write that you should review the ISF scheme in order to try to find a solution, I am at least afraid that this matter can be sent out quickly on a new journey in the apparatus. There will be many investigations, a lot of back and forth, and patients will have to wait and wait and wait. Here, in fact, the Storting should have put the foot down and made sure to get to something already today. Another thing that refers to is the asthma schools. Here's a very important signal being given. Asthma schools must not only be continued, they must also be further developed. It is quite obvious that there must be an interaction between the asthma schools and the healthcare companies, and that is said in the setting. Too many times there has been a problem whether asthma schools will be able to receive funding in the future, so that they can continue. Now I feel at least that you put your foot down and say that these are good measures, so this should continue – and not just as today, but they should be further developed. It is incredibly important for this patient group. But we don't just have to limit ourselves to saying that this is going to apply to the asthma schools. The basic issue of peer-to-peer work is very cost-effective. There are people who know their own disease, who have a high level of competence on their own disease. It is then quite clear that we have to take them on board when we are going to design policies within the individual disciplines. Another issue is, of course, the use of multidose medicinal products. There we have been too bad in Norway! Fortunately, clear signals are now being given that this needs to be upgraded in such a way that it is used to a much greater extent than is the case today. This I believe, among other things. could lead to more appropriate use of medicinal products, in particular for people who are dependent on several types of medicinal products at the same day, at the same time or at different times, so that we do not receive over-medication or mismedication. We know that a relatively large proportion of health care expenditure, especially in hospital treatment, is actually linked to mismedication. Defective medication is a serious problem in Norway. Medical information and readability are also something that has been given great attention in the setting. It's very important, and I fully support it. Here, too, we point to the importance of the interaction between all actors in this vast field, both pharmaceutical manufacturers, doctors, patient organisations, pharmacies, and the fact that we actually come together and find solutions to how this information is to be developed and developed, and how to disseminate this information. It's incredibly important, and I'm glad that a unanimous committee among others. suggests the possibility of a separate conference to that effect. A great many hearing bodies have pointed out this particular issue. Of course, one of the most important things about patient treatment is the relationship between doctor and patient. Here we have great challenges. One thing is what the representative Höie had in mind, that, of course, industry has the aim of selling its products – it should just be lacking – in the same way as everyone else who makes a product. What's important is that as a public authority, we don't blind ourselves to the fact that it's government spending reduction that's overwhelming. Then we shift the other thing away from us. I fear, as I said, that we should already say at this point that it must be a generic prescription. We haven't done enough basic work to say that this is going to be done permanently. I think we have to take that in. In all other areas it's being discussed in this room – it could be the slightest change and no matter what government – it's called: Yes, but we have to figure this out. We need to have this at the hearing. We need to take a closer look at this. We can't just vote in favour of such a proposal now without doing the basic work. So, in this difficult area, you can see in the message, and then you can make the decision: here it must be generic. It's irresponsible. I hope the Council of State will take good time to do this before he comes back with any changes to the laws and regulations in this area, so that you know what that means. I see the time is running out. This is a large area. We have a very big problem in front of us in implementing what we are now adopting. What we have to do is quickly raise the de minimis limit. There is no need to jump when this room criticises the inclusion of individual medicines in the prescription system for treatment here in the Stortingen, while at the same time choosing to maintain the minimum threshold of 5 million. kr. With this, I would also like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is alone on or together with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e221	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e224	The rapporteur, Asmund Kristoffersen, has examined in a good and factual way the majority's views relating to the notification of medicinal products. SV is in essence also associated with the Workers' Party when it comes to the notification, so I am not going to spend a lot of time repeating what Kristoffersen said, but dealing with a number of aspects of the pharmaceutical policy. NRK News this morning reported that approx. 1000 doctors have been paid by the pharmaceutical industry to promote the marketing of medicinal products. Among them we find a lot of hospital doctors. The defense that it is as it should be came from a former political adviser in the Ministry of Health. One of the main recruitment units for higher positions in the pharmaceutical industry is the State Medicines Agency. It's a problem. It is a problem because it contributes to a relationship between public and private activities in which public authorities should counterbalance the rather one-sided information of the pharmaceutical industry. This is a problem because it helps to drain public authorities for the necessary skills that should have been used to counteract the consequences of adverse drug use. Information on medicinal products is almost entirely provided by the pharmaceutical industry, with the public health sector as a relatively passive observer — or even as a highly active participant in industry’s premise. We are now seeing trends in a number of pharmaceutical suppliers finding countermeasures to effective generic competition. There is a risk that the original supplier may have several pharmaceutical forms, such as the orodispersible or film-coated tablet in addition to the usual tablet. These other pharmaceutical forms have additional patents which prevent them from obtaining generic competition when the patent for the usual tablet expires. When half a year is left until the patent expires, supplies of regular tablets may be stopped or the tablets will be deregistered in Norway. Thus, the prescription of doctors is transferred to melting tablets or film-coated capsules before the patent expires, and generic competition and lower prices are avoided. The implementation and success of such a strategy will have very significant economic consequences. As an example, a migration agent with the ingredient sumatriptan, which goes off patent in the winter to come, can be mentioned. This medicine alone sells almost 150 million. kr in Norway each year. With generic competition and the use of step prices, the price will fall to one third, and the state will save about one third. One hundred million. kr. Without generic competition, this saving will not be feasible. Another medicinal product used in the treatment of ulcers in the stomach and duodenum containing lansoprazole loses patent rights at the end of 2005. Now there are delivery problems for regular tablets of this medicinal product, while the turnover of orodispersible tablets is approximately five times that of four months. For sumatriptan, so far this year we see a twenty-fold increase in the sales of film-coated tablets. The Committee for the Notification of Medicinal Products places great emphasis on effective measures such as the preferred medicinal product and generic prescription. But what makes these examples visible is that effective measures are absolutely necessary to prevent the pharmaceutical industry from finding creative ways around, in order to impose significant additional costs on the State. Such mechanisms must therefore be countered, not in order to prevent the public from accessing good medicines, but precisely in order to ensure the best possible treatment for the population by the means provided by the Stortinge, and to ensure that the funds are used in the most appropriate way possible in order to provide the best possible assistance. SV has been concerned that the Committees on Medicinal Products in general practice could contribute to the development of a better use of medicinal products, and we, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre, are therefore part of a proposal to explore the use of such committees in general practice. Unfortunately, that proposal does not get a majority. We are not opposed to examining how the existing working groups under the auspices of the Norwegian Medical Association can be better used to ensure better prescription and better drug use, as proposed by the majority. Once our proposal has fallen, therefore, we will support this proposal. However, the extent to which the question of the proper use of medicinal products is made a trade union issue rather than an issue of active public involvement in the proper use of medicinal products is evident here, as elsewhere. We have seen that a number of medicines that have been prescribed in the past are partially exempt from prescription. Sometimes it makes sense, but sometimes we see that it can cause serious side effects. We've seen it with paracetamol, we've seen it with acetylsalicylic acid, and we've seen it with a bunch of other ways. At the same time, we know that pharmacies have a significant competence in pharmacists who have their training in the field of medicines and are unfortunately being too reduced to a type of seller on premises other than his own. It would have been a unique opportunity to use the professional competence of pharmacists to have a type of prescription under the direction of pharmacies, where pharmacists can advise customers and also have a right of self-prescription. There may be funds that are currently exempt from prescription, but which should not be, or there may be funds that, by repeated prescription by a doctor strictly speaking, had not been prescribed by a doctor, but where the pharmacist could have been responsible for the day-to-day responsibility. SV supports such a conversion, which we have seen as appropriate in other countries, and which Norway should also have tried. It also strengthens the pharmacies as part of the health care system and emphasises the professional needs of pharmacies. The majority, of which SV is part, have proposed to the Government that research be started, as well as that international research be reviewed, related to the use of minerals and vitamins in the treatment of people with mental illness. I am a doctor myself, but I have recorded with which arrogance the trade unions encounter alternative approaches to the treatment of severe disorders, and how arrogant one has also been when it comes to examining whether there may be realities in relation to the effects achieved. That arrogance has also been seen in the past in Eastern medicine, for example. acupuncture, and we've seen how it's gradually become part of Western medicine, how it's been documented in pain management, and how it's gradually recovered. We record that in some cases, dependants import drugs or herbal remedies from abroad, and they have to go canoeing in order to make the funds available. Some may have used the funds for years, but still need to use a bureaucracy every time to access them. We believe this in SV that something has to be done about it. Access should be facilitated when, at the time of first prescription and after a period of use, you see that this is useful, and you should ensure that people let go of the humiliating time each time. In addition, Norway should take joint responsibility for studying the efficacy of alternative herbal medicinal products, in order to provide better and non-drug-independent knowledge of their efficacy. For many years SV has been concerned that there is an unworthy situation that arises when patients who are prescribed cell poisoning treatment outside the hospital are at risk of losing access to the same type of medication at the time they become worse and are hospitalised. We believe that this problem could have been solved by the fact that cell poisoning treatment can be prescribed on a blue prescription regardless of whether the patient is treated out-of-patiently or in a hospital ward, or whether he is in hospital. What is happening now, unfortunately, is that the hospitals' economy can create uncertainty as to whether or not to access the product. This does not mean that SV believes that the use of cell poisons should be significantly liberalised, perhaps with new preparations that have marginally different effects from well-tested drugs, and should therefore be chosen instead, but we believe that it is necessary to remove the unworthy situation in which someone risks not having a treatment that they would have been strictly entitled to if it was not the hospital economy that decided it. We will experience a situation in which drugs will be for debate for a long time in the future, but there may be something symptomatic about the fact that while there is still mention of drugs in the media, we see that the media are not present during a debate on the same in the Stortinget. Perhaps the Stortinget has too little ability to take the key steps that could have influenced the pharmaceutical policy, so that decisions are taken to a large extent outside this house. In that case, there is a situation that we should seek to avoid in the future, by the fact that we dare to take courageous action that does something in this area, and that improves access to good medicines for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e254	I will start by giving honor to the case spokesperson for constructive and good work on the setting and a foundation arrangement in the main post. Drug is part of the everyday life of many people. Last year there were 3 million Norwegians who benefited from prescriptions. In total, 25 million prescriptions were dispatched in Norway and a cure for 16 billion dollars. This shows that curatives are decisive for the quality of life of many people. The availability of safe and effective medicinal products and low drug prices, on the same lines as good prescription practices and follow-up of patients, are essential for the proper use of medicinal products. The Christian People's Party supports the government's strategy for the right use of drugs and oversees the objectives of the drug policy set out in St.meld. No 18, a message that highlights a very important course for drug policy in the years to come. Study that is referred to in this message shows that mismedication occurs to a greater or lesser extent in a total of 20 pst. of all treatments where the medicinal product is used. Probably as much as 5-10 pst. by all hospitalisations in intrinsic wards are returned to the misuse of medicated medicinal products. For patients, the consequences of inappropriate drug use are missing effects, adverse reactions, poorer control of the disease, reduced quality of life and, in the extreme sense, increased mortality. The consequences for society are poor resource use, unnecessary treatment and increased sick leave. Effective and safe medication management has provided clear legislation, professional and competent health professionals and good procedures for preparation, distribution and follow-up. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Government of this message really addresses this problem and makes more good efforts in the field, including: an action plan to promote safer drug use across selected patient groups in the population, focusing on primary care services. The need to strengthen the competence of healthcare professionals before drug treatment has emerged in several contexts. The Christian People's Party is positive that universities and universities are now being encouraged to undergo education with a view to training that promotes proper drug use. Multidoses allow targeted response to those most in need, and significantly eliminates the causes of accidental and incorrect drug use. It is also easier for the patient to stick to a package at a time. The delivery of medicinal products will be safer, and the use of generic medicinal products will be easier for the patient. This in turn results in fewer medical visits and admissions to hospitals, thus representing a large savings potential. Multidoses are therefore, according to the Christian People's Party's opinion, less beneficial than what is justifiable, as a collective committee also points out. All those with an interest in drug policy have a common objective of achieving the best possible health for the population, but because these are different actors with different roles, the perception of what is best varies. What is perceived as best for the individual patient, and what is considered best for all patients as a group, or for society as a whole, is not always the same. Therefore, a decision-making basis that should appear to be balanced and credible for all parties must be developed by a professional environment that is perceived as independent both of industry and of authorities and as a new high level of professional respect. An independent professional environment will be able to provide, through systematic overview, methodological assessment, methodological alerts and health-economic assessments, a knowledge base that the authorities benefit from as a basis for their priority decisions. At the same time, this will be independent information that you can provide to patients and doctors. Public information work should be organised in such a way as to facilitate the provision of information to adapt both authorities, bodies and patients. Recommendations from the authorities on the professional and economical use of medicinal products are necessary to choose directly between medicinal products and other alternatives. The Christian People's Party supports the fact that the organisation of information work is mainly going to sleep on three legs. Furthermore, we are pleased that this message proposes the criterion for satisfactory producer-independent medicinal product information, and supports these proposals. The Christian People's Party is concerned that trust in legacy prescription practices is strengthened. St.meld. No 18 refers to investigations in relation to the conduct and practice of loans. It is indicated that seven out of ten people think that further training would be poorer without contributions from the pharmaceutical industry. Half of the ligaments were in fact influenced by marketing from the pharmaceutical industry. Today, we were able to hear the news that about 1 000 ligaments last year attended a seminar organised by the pharmaceutical industry for Lige. In sum, this helps to weaken the general confidence of people in the free prescription practices of doctors. In view of this, it is of exceptional importance that an effort is made to ensure that patients and authorities can be confident that the prescription of medicinal products will not be adversely affected by industrial lobbying. This must be done both by industry and by laymen. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that more measures related to this particular issue are being taken in the message. The Christian People's Party believes that the concern for regional and health policy objectives is in favour of the authorities developing their own policies to ensure optimal access to medicinal products in these areas. In this context, the operational support system is an important tool for ensuring the care of pharmacies in the districts. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the message emphasizes that if other measures are not taken, the Department will apply pharmacies in central districts to operate out-of-court pharmacy. In order to ensure good use of resources, it is important that society does not pay a higher price for a medicinal product than is necessary. There is also no need to pay more for one medicinal product than for another, as long as the treatment outcome is expected to be the same. The Christian People's Party believes that preferred curative indicates the doctor's role as a doorkeeper to the bladder prescription system, and that this can contribute to proper drug use within important therapeutic areas. The Christian People's Party believes that a system of preferred medicinal products can be suitable where several medicinal products are available in the treatment of a disease, and where the side effects and effects of these medicinal products are not significantly different. The preferred medicinal product scheme must be used both at the start of treatment and at the start of treatment. When the ligaments can choose between several corresponding therapeutically equivalent medicinal products, the cheapest choice is right, unless medical reasons speak against it. Nevertheless, it retains its free right of prescription by allowing exceptions for patients with special needs. The Christian People's Party, together with the majority of the Governing Board, therefore asks the Government to consider which other areas of therapy should be subject to a corresponding regime. The Christian People's Party is committed to the principle of popular control of the uptake of medicinal products on the prescription scheme. This ensures that the medicinal product will not be given pre-emptive treatment rather than other health measures for the benefit of patients. There is therefore a need for a limit on which medicinal products are so expensive that they need to be assessed against other uses in society. It is important that the de minimis threshold is set at such a level that medicinal products are not given the right to drive rather than other health services. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that this limit should be increased, and that this can happen without a cure being given the right to run in the priority debate. Proper drug use is important for patients’ quality of life, but also for society as a whole. Christian People's Party thinks that St.meld. No 18 in a good way outlining the path of future drug policy, and is pleased that the Government has such wide-ranging support for its policy in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e288	I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for an excellent work and for having messed this up in countries with a great deal of consensus in the Committee. At the same time, I refer to his posts, and I want to comment only on some of the things that we have our own comments and are involved in the context of minority proposals first and foremost. It is important that an area as large as the use of medicinal products is properly managed, primarily for the benefit of the patient, so that it becomes a proper use of medicinal products. When we see how much mismedication there is, it's alarming, to take care of it. When Sweden has calculated that this costs at least 10 billion kroner to the Swedish society, there is reason to believe, as the rapporteur also mentioned, that we have at least about half of this cost in Norway. Medicinal products are placed on the market for approx. 16 billion kroner a year, and then maybe 5 billion dollars in mistreatment is a very high number. But it's essentially unacceptable given that proper medications are to be given to those who are ill. In this context, there is also reason to point to one thing that we come up with, namely prescription and use of medicines in children, and to increase research around and get a better system for medical use in children. What is contained in the message is, among other things, a relatively broad and comprehensive assessment of the bladder prescription system, including the procedural and admissibility procedure. What we asked for – at least a minority in the Social Committee, the Centre Party and the Progress Party – was probably a slightly broader assessment than just this. We are somewhat disappointed that it is not a slightly larger and broader assessment of the entire area, among other things. the administrative measures to be taken to ensure the patient’s best and fastest access to the most effective and proper medicinal product. There are some levels of the pharmaceutical world that might have been more evaluated from the manufacturer to the consumer. That being said, it is good that we have finally received this review and that at least we have a certain evaluation of the sales of medicinal products in Norway. There is reason to point to, among other things. the placing on the market of large quantities of prescription-free medicinal products other than pharmacy from more than 5000 outlets. It is important that the supervisory authorities also monitor closely so that the safety of the population is ensured in relation to the fact that nothing can be misused in the context of such sales of medicinal products. Some medicines cost a lot of money, so-called high-cost medicines. In this context, the focus has been on cell toxin treatment and its recent costs. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Party of Advances, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, requests that the Government submit a ‘Proposal for a reimbursement scheme for cell toxicity treatment based on the fact that the costs of such treatment are borne by the National Anti-Fraud Office irrespective of whether the patient is a member of a health institution or not’. It is now that some patients get this treatment when they are in their own home, but if you are hospitalized or in a municipal institution, the institution may say that we cannot afford this, and thus the patient loses this treatment offer. It's unacceptable. It is gratifying that the entire Committee says that the Department must consider: ‘how patients admitted to hospital or in municipal care can be assured of the most effective and correct medicinal products without hindering the economy of healthcare companies or municipalities’. But this will take time, and like the representative Nesvik, I'm sorry that we couldn't get to a majority, so that at least cell-tox treatment was in place now in connection with the processing of this message. In the primary healthcare service, the focus has been on the correct or incorrect use of medicinal products, and it is therefore important, in our opinion, that one can ensure this in a better way, including: through the Committees for Medicinal Products for Primary Health. There is also reason to point out that there is only a minority – the Centre Party, the Working Party and SV – who ‘began the Government to raise the question of pharmaceutical committees in general practice with a view to initiating testing schemes’ for this purpose. I have to come back to some other moments later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e318	It was a parliamentary head of this House who, in the context of a budgetary position, said that the Government had provided a good budget, and after the committee had given its opinion, he said that it had become even better. I want to say that the government provided a good big message, and it has not been weakened by the committee treatment. The total turnover of medicinal products in Norway is high, approximately DKK 16 billion in 2004, as mentioned earlier. The public expenditure on medicinal products has over several years been more than 8 pst. of the total public health expenditure. 25 million prescriptions from Norwegian pharmacy were dispatched in 2004 to three million different individuals. These figures show that medicinal products are part of very many people's everyday lives, and it is an important societal task to ensure the proper use of medicinal products. For individuals, medicinal products can be of crucial importance for their quality of life. Such an extensive area deserves a comprehensive review. Today's news of the abuse we are debating is outlining the course of pharmaceutical policy. This includes, inter alia: appropriate prescribing and use of the relationship between the industry and the medical needs of research producers, irrespective of the regulation of the prices of medicinal products for human use; Challenges related to the reimbursement system have been widely discussed. It is gratifying that the Storting has given broad support to the Government's strategies in this particular area. There are many actors in the field of medicines who want to promote their interests, but it is important that we keep our sponsors in the centre, namely patients. This implies that the proper use of medicinal products for the benefit of patients is the overall objective of the Government with its pharmaceutical policy. Many patients need to take more medicines at the same time. Studies show that 20 pst. the medicinal products may be superfluous and the combinations of medicinal products may often improve. In order to reach patients and to ensure that they use the medicinal products in order to maximise their benefits, it is necessary to increase the focus on the interaction between patients and healthcare professionals. The Ministry will, among other things: implement projects in different parts of healthcare where healthcare professionals are undergoing the use of medicinal products to particularly vulnerable groups. Multidose packs of medicinal products will be made more available. The authorities shall also take greater responsibility for the dissemination of experience and practices that can provide patients in institutions and home care with safer medicinal products. Medical practitioners must have balanced information on the effects of medicinal products in order to choose the right treatment. The notification signals an increased commitment to manufacturer-independent pharmaceutical information both to doctors and to patients. Public producer-independent information shall be better coordinated and targeted on the basis of a new information platform: The National Medicines Agency shall provide the authorities with information on the professional and economic use of medicinal products.The Directorate for Social and Health shall provide recommendations for the treatment of disease areas where medicinal products may be a single treatment mode.The National Health Care Knowledge Centre shall provide information on medicinal products which are both manufacturer- and authority-dependent. The pharmaceutical industry is a central player in the development and dissemination of important knowledge about medicinal products. At the same time, strong commercial interests are linked to the sale of individual company products. In view of this, it is of great importance that patients and the authorities can be confident that the prescriber’s prescription of medicinal products is not adversely affected by industry. This has been seen by the Medical Association and the Medical Products Association themselves, and ethical guidelines for self-justice have been developed. Such self-justice is affordable, but in my opinion in no way sufficient. There is a need for a common starting point for all health professionals. The Ministry therefore, upon consultation, has a proposal for a regulation setting out clearer requirements for the performance to be received in the service. Monitoring of the advertising activity of the pharmaceutical industry shall also be intensified. Advice and follow-up of patients by pharmacists is of great importance for the proper use of medicinal products. Therefore, the pharmacopoeia coverage in the districts must be maintained and the pharmacopoeia-funded operating aid scheme will be the main means of achieving this. The Government will propose to allow consignments from pharmacies to consumers throughout the country when new requirements for the shipment of medicinal products have been investigated. This will enhance patients’ freedom of choice and availability of medicinal products, without prejudice to patient safety. This is more important than protecting today’s pharmacies from natural development. In order to ensure good use of resources, it is important that society does not pay a higher price for a medicinal product than is necessary. The regulation of the maximum price and the introduction of the step price for medicinal products already contribute to lower prices. There is also no need to pay more for one medicinal product than another, as long as the treatment outcome can be expected to be the same. Therefore, when doctors can choose between several similar medicinal products that are therapeutically equivalent, the Government will ensure that the cheapest choice is made, unless medical reasons speak against it. A typical example is treatment for high cholesterol, where treatment options are many. If we release 200 million. For example, by switching to more reasonable medicines in this area, which gives equivalent treatment results, we can do this. spend 100 million. kr more on mental health protection and 100 mill. kr more on our local hospital. Therefore, proper drug use is also about getting the best health for patients for each crown. The Blue Recipe System is a basic welfare asset, a reimbursement system that is also an important key to medical and economical correct use of medicinal products. An up-to-date reimbursement scheme will provide information on what is recommended treatment and the conditions for reimbursement of costs of medicinal products. Modernisation of the reimbursement system will be a high priority in the coming years, with developments on three fronts in particular: updated conditions for reimbursement of each medicinal product; information on these conditions will be more effective and compliance with these conditions will be verified in practice. In order to simplify information to doctors, a solution is proposed for doctors to obtain reimbursement conditions on their computer screens when they write a prescription. Information aimed at patients should be strengthened. The Rikstrøgdeverket will intensify its control of doctors’ prescription on blue prescription. The time period for the application for individual reimbursement shall also be reduced. Medicinal products must be seen as a health offer in line with all other health measures. Therefore, it has not been given that health crowns should be used on a new medicinal product, if the use of the same crowns on another health offer brings greater health benefit. The Government therefore considers that the issue of reimbursement of animal medicinal products should continue to be dealt with in a wider context, in the context of the State budget. The use of a de minimis limit ensures such development. However, we see that today's de minimis threshold may seem low, and will follow up the majority's proposal for a substantial increase in it. Society as a whole will benefit from better drug use. The quality of life of patients will be improved, healthcare can release treatment time, and thus, within a given health budget, more people can get help. With the medical report, I believe that the government has contributed to cancelling this course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e392	Through the presentation of the Communication and the treatment it has now received in the Grand Duchy, the Council of State has been given clear and, in part, good guidelines for its future work on medicinal policy. One area I particularly pointed to in my post, and it was the pharmacy area, where the planned measures with free shipping, mail order and Internet sales at least concern me, considering several aspects, among others. related to the maintenance of the pharmacologic structure in our districts. The second also applies to the pharmacy as a specialist, namely to ensure that one has a customer base that enables the pharmacy to have a good professional staff. An overall committee has also said that availability to pharmacies is a fundamental health concern. Then I wonder how the Council of State intends to take care of the pharmaceutical structure that we have today, given that patients will have a good offer across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e399	I believe the undersigned and the representative Kristoffersen, and for that matter the government and the magnificence, are basically in agreement and see the value of having a decentralised pharmacy. It's an important part of the total health care system. There is no doubt that, overall, our pharmacy is perhaps one of the foremost trades where we can get information and information. This resulted in the change that occurred when the whole pharmaceutical legislation was in force. We already see that a large amount of pharmacies are sent across borders, among other things. as package item – in fact more than one million consignments per year. Our main instrument for maintaining the decentralised structure is that we have financial compensation schemes for those pharmacies that are out in the district, so that they do not have to risk cutting due to low turnover, either because of one or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e408	In fact, all parties and members of the Committee have expressed a positive opinion on generic prescription. Where you separate layers, among other things: at the pace of this, and how to implement such a scheme. The Progress Party – and also the Centre Party – is now alone in supporting the Government's outlines in the Communication, with a pilot scheme for generic prescription on a voluntary basis, in order to form the basis for getting knowledge of how this will turn out and, if necessary, how to look at it in the future – whether to make it permanent. My question to the Council of State on generic prescription is: Has this been out for consultation? An investigation has been carried out on these issues, including: heard what medical associations and patient organisations think about generic prescriptions, and how will this be understood? If this has not happened, will the Council of State at least ensure that this is investigated and sent to the hearing before making an hasty decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e415	Let me reassure the representative Nesvik and, for that matter, the whole Storting: I don't think anyone should fear that hasty decisions will be taken in this important area. As far as hearings are concerned, as far as I know – with the small reservation – we have had absolutely necessary hearings in relation to patient organisations, the Medical Association and others. Because it is clear that there are some challenges to the practical implementation of this, and all these things we need to have a clear picture of before we do anything as essential as this is. Here it's also related to the technological possibilities, the electronic one. All of this must be clarified in detail before we press a start button. I consider hasty, poorly thought-out decisions in this area to be totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e422	In my article I drew up two examples of medicines in which the patent rights will go out. One was a migraine agent; the other was a cure for ulcers and ulcers in the duodenum. These are just examples. It is not intended to go far into what is involved in the treatment of single diseases. However, I think there are good examples, because it shows how the pharmaceutical industry, the manufacturer, can deliberately steer around the reduction in own resources only by simply withdrawing medicinal products from the market, and in that way force doctors to prescribe more expensive drugs, which are then still patented, when the patent rights of the most reasonable drug go out. This also changes the people's idea of what kind of medicine you depend on. So these are costs in the order of 100-150 million. kr for one medicinal product. My question to the Council of State will then be: does the Council of State think that today there are enough tools to prevent this kind of circumvention of political decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e427	To the extent that I would have to answer yes or no, my answer would have been that we have not. I seem to see so many single examples as confirmation of what is in Ballo's question, that I think it is natural to take further steps in the way that we have already started, and that we have, to some extent, also outlined in the communication. The pharmaceutical industry and the Medical Association have now made their own ethical driving rules. Then we have made a proposal for a regulation that we have sent to the hearing. Let me say it so that I'm excited about the response we get to that regulation, and I'm not a stranger to the fact that when we deal with the hearings that have been received, we can find the basis that we need to adjust it further. I can almost not imagine one area where there are so heavy commercial interests involved in something that goes so directly on the state budget, as exactly the area of medicine. Someone who spends between 500 million. NOK 1 billion and NOK 1 billion on marketing, have an upside that they see at least in the horizon.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e434	The centre party is pleased that we got an overall committee with us to ask the government to assess whether the operating aid scheme for pharmacies is good enough to maintain and also to establish a district pharmacy. Furthermore, in the same proposal for a decision, we ask that we come up with a solution to the question of pharmacies, so that we do not get a situation like the one we had last Pentecost. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he has thought about how to set up this pharmacy system in order to make it good enough throughout the country. At the same time, we are concerned that everyone should have the same opportunity to receive medicines at the same cost. Unfortunately, we only got an SV with us on a note here that this should be done through free shipping of medicines to users, wherever they live. I want to ask the Minister of Health if it must not be at least as big a task to send doctors around this country free of charge as to send alcohol around for free.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e441	To take the last one first, whether it is as important to send drugs free of charge as to send alcohol free of charge: when someone says that you have something free of charge, it is often thought that it is either paid by others, or it is paid as an average by everyone. This is probably also the case with regard to both alcohol and other goods claimed to be sent free of charge. I understand the point made by the representative of Lutvold relating to this at equivalent prices, and not least related to the cost of the shipment, which in some cases can become a significant part of a total cost. As for the first question, about pharmacy coverage, I feel quite comfortable with the situation we have, relating to the arrangements we have put in place to keep our absolutely necessary pharmacy in District Norway. The detailed design of the pharmacies watch system will primarily pose a challenge for pharmacies and pharmacists themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e448	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e453	First, a little comment on the line chord shift we had. Of course, in the case of free shipment of drugs and alcohol, it was in the interest of the user free of charge. I think it's much more important that those who depend on medicine get medicine free of charge when it comes to shipping costs, than those who use alcohol in different quantities. So a little bit to a couple of other areas that I didn't want to get into – among other things. information on medicinal products. It is important that it is authoritative. That's why a majority of us have been a little skeptical about adding this, as the government suggested, but we're doing it now. However, we would like to remind you that pharmaceutical information should be authoritative, as much as it should of course be independent of industry and sales firms. So a little bit to this with research on alternative drugs. It's important that we now follow it up, and that one, among other things. the majority referred to here in a note and a proposal for a decision may use minerals and vitamins as alternative treatments in psychiatry. I think that for the future we may need to be more tense in this area and, in this context, find new ways of treating sick people, including in the field of mental health protection. So a little bit more about pharmacy. It is very important, as the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party state, that there should be a requirement in the Pharmacy Act that pharmacies should be physically available. I hope that by getting a joint committee to look at the operating aid scheme again, we can find out that district pharmacists are going to be full pharmacies, and this is not supposed to be any kind of B pharmacy, but have the full service to the residents. There is also reason to comment on this with the anti-fracture system and free shipping of medicines. If it's the case that only close-up people are sending these drugs, it's a much smaller device than if we're going to open up, as some would like, for the Internet ordering of drugs and therefore long cargoes, unsafe cargoes – in many ways a setup that is currently unfinished, and that we in the Center Party are going against, at least now, and will have a much more thorough investigation. I also hope that we can get a proper order on the pharmacovigilance page. I don't think the health minister's answer was very good here, but it's clear that the pharmacies here are important contributors and have an important role to play. Then we have to have pharmacies over the whole country, and the coverage is the Minister of Health who has a great responsibility for it. Generic exchange and preferred medicine we have comments on together with the Advancement Party, and I refer primarily to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e471	This is only of a preventative nature, because I have been injured to say something in my response to the Nesvik line that was not entirely in line with reality. The eye contact with the diplomat lodger was not as good as it should have been, as I was asked if we had had investigations related to generic prescription at the hearing. That investigative work will, of course, be sent to the hearing. I replied as if we had sent it to the hearing, which is not correct. But before we press the button, regular consultation rounds will of course be carried out in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e476	The President assumes that this means that the eye contact is established afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e479	That's absolutely right, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e484	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2453]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e504	Knowledge gives power is an expression that has often been used. Knowledge also provides opportunities. The model of society that we have chosen in Norway is based on the idea of a representative democracy, with the free right of the people to point out their representatives through free elections, with free expression and the right to influence decisions that affect you. That's why we all have a role as representatives of individuals and groups of people, and we have our parties and party programmes. With this interpellation, I want to highlight the situation of one patient group, those affected by the hearing and balance disorder Ménière, because I have had to struggle with my own experience to gain enough knowledge of the disease and treatment possibilities. I did not accept the answer: this is nothing to do with. I got the knowledge in different ways, but not where I should have got it, with those we have the greatest faith in, namely our doctors. But by chance I'm a member of the Nordic Council, by chance there are members there who are doctors of profession, and incidentally one of them is ear, nose and throat specialists. It's great, but it's not as good that I got information and tips on the treatment arrangements of these doctors, while I should be given it honestly by Norwegian doctors. The Landsförbund was the second important informant. Thanks to stakeholder organisations such as: There is a lot of knowledge that doctors and health professionals should benefit from. Is it really randomness to decide whether or not to receive a treatment? And how is the exchange of experience between health professionals in e.g. the Nordic countries, and in Europe? I want us to have the world's most up-to-date doctors and health professionals. But others have experienced the same thing as I have, and I will therefore stress the following: I am not looking for scapegoats or any competition for who or which parties have done or said what up over the years, and that should have done more. I am concerned about what can and should be done in the future. The fact that around 40,000 people in this country have Ménière should lead to a greater interest in this field both for health professionals and for the Ministry of Health. The fact that it is not done to a sufficient degree can unfortunately have something to do with making it sound bad, having earaches, and getting a horrible dizziness attack does not have the very big status. In other areas of medicine, standardised treatment is common. In my opinion, it's not for Ménière. In other areas, there is a lot of research and cooperation with professional environments around the world. In the case of Ménière, the impression is that doctors in Norway do not know what is happening in our nearest neighbouring country, where there is significantly more knowledge and better treatment. One of our major political challenges is that many working-age people are being dissatisfied. Many of these have Ménière. Many also have oresus as a result of the disease Ménière, while many, many more ‘only’ have oresus. It is estimated that nearly 600 000 people are plagued by this, of which nearly 20,000 are actually completely out of play because of this. With good treatment for Ménière, many of these could have been in full-time work, which, of course, would have been very good for the individual, but also for society. For those who are at work, I think the sick leave could have been considerably reduced if they had received the right treatment. Cochlea implants are another area that shows that hearing impaired people are not given priority. Although the problems surrounding this are discussed in the Social Committee and in the United Kingdom a number of times, many still do not receive treatment. In fact, many children now receive treatment, and that's very good, but for adults it's strongly down-prioritized. There are also long waiting lists for children who are operated on in one ear and who are to be operated on in the other. It is said that the implants are too expensive, and that hospitals are losing money to doing such a treatment. That is why I want to focus on the following areas: I want to point out what was discussed in the case before this. Figures collected on the preparation of Betaserc, which helps patients with Ménière, show that the product is more expensive in Norway than in the other Nordic countries and in other European countries, better functioning rehabilitation services I want to challenge the Council of State and ask him if he will help the many hearing impaired at, among others. to help achieve health status, and to facilitate the poor economy of healthcare businesses from the point of view of preventing this patient group from receiving the treatment they deserve — and actually receive — in a welfare society like ours. A Centre of Competence for Vestibular Diseases has been established at Haukeland University Hospital. However, the Competence Centre has not had a financial framework that allows it to work on the dissemination of competences and patient-oriented measures. These are key tasks, for which it is essential that some people take responsibility. In addition, a standardised treatment and rehabilitation system should be developed. I believe the Council of State must now intervene and give Health West concrete guidance signals that ensure that the Centre of Competence is given resources to fulfil its responsibilities towards patients with Méniere's disease. The 2002 Action Plan ‘A comprehensive rehabilitation service for hearing-impaired people’ highlights the substantial need for Ménière to rehabilitate, and the need to improve the provision of this patient group. Since the plan was presented, some rehabilitation initiatives have taken place at some learning and mastering centres and through the model experiment ReSonare at Briskeby School and Centre of Competence. This is pointing in the right direction. Nevertheless, there is still a lack of a comprehensive and coordinated effort containing both medical, physical and psychosocial treatment and follow-up. One of the problems is that today’s outpatient rates and DRG rates do not take into account the needs of Ménière as chronic patients. In these days, there are proposals for tariff changes for tinnitus, i.e. oesus, in a report from a working group set up by the Social and Health Directorate. The Council of State must ensure that these tariffs are introduced in favour of both tinnitus and Méniere patients, while at the same time developing its own tariffs that include balance training for Méniere patients. I want the world's most up-to-date doctors and health professionals also on the disease Ménière, which is a brutal disease for those who get it. It greatly impairs the quality of life for those who do not get help, and my wish is that the Council of State sees the seriousness of the problem. More and more young people get tinnitus, or eardrum. The Norwegian Rock Association, together with Hørselsheimedes Landsförbund, has applied to the State for funds to distribute information at concerts and to provide information to young people attending concerts and festivals on how to protect themselves against hearing damage with simple preventive measures. I hope that the future offers for Ménière patients will be better, that the doctors around Norway can be more up-to-date, that the drugs will be cheaper and easier to access, and that the patients who are suffering from this disorder will not become caste balls in a hospital that do not fully understand what this disease really is. A better treatment provision would provide improved quality of life for many. That's why we're here in this room – isn't it? I look forward to hearing the answers of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e565	Ménière's disease affects about one in a thousand people. The disease is characterized by seizures with severe dizziness and nausea, swinging hearing loss, ear sores and sensations of pressure in the ear. Ménière's disease is a chronic disease, and many of the patients are being disabled for periods of time. It has been shown scientifically that patients have increased fluid retention and fluid output in the inner ear, and it is estimated that this is the cause of the disease, without knowing why. It appears that most seizures occur in contexts of stress, in periods of mental and physical imbalance, or in situations where the patient has a weakened resistance. The first attack affects the experienced patients as lightning from the clear sky. The disease then has a chronic course, which varies from patient to patient. There may be frequent seizures during periods, followed by months and years without seizure. Many patients experience hearing loss gradually, combined with ear and pressure sensation in the ear. A number of patients also have sleep problems and depression. In other words, it can be a very stressful disease for those affected. No treatment is known to cure the disease. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has gained experience that the treatment is very often comprised of dietary measures. Furthermore, there will be a need for medical treatment involving diuretics, antifungals and analgesics. In addition, there is one drug, Betaserc, which appears to be able to mitigate the symptoms in some patients. However, the efficacy of this drug has not been scientifically demonstrated. In some patients, surgical treatment can help. This may relieve the symptoms, but at the same time it causes the ear to faint. Hearing aids may also be applicable to patients with advanced hearing impairment. Patients with Ménière’s disease usually seek medical advice because of dizziness and balance problems. We cannot expect a general practitioner to have the necessary competence to diagnose and treat the disease. Patients suspected of suffering from Méniere’s disease shall be referred to an ear-nasal specialist. Specialists, both in hospitals and in private practice, must have the necessary competence and will be able to diagnose the disease relatively easily. The Social and Health Directorate informs that the waiting time for a specialist survey is usually between two and four weeks. Patients with Ménière’s disease are covered, in line with all other patients, by the new, strengthened patient rights that entered into force on 1 September 2004. Patients entitled to health care shall be given an individual deadline for the time of treatment based on a medical assessment of the individual patient. Patients also have the right to make use of free hospital choice if, for example: knows that there is a better offer in a hospital than is offered in the patient’s vicinity. It is the patient’s needs to be at the centre and the patient should be entitled to treatment within the individual time limit that the medical expertise considers acceptable to the patient. In the event of a breach of the time-limit, the Rikstrygdeverket shall ensure that the patient receives an offer from private or abroad. The drug Betaserc is used to some extent to alleviate the symptoms of Ménière’s disease. However, the mechanism of action has not been clarified. There is a wide range of reports on the good effect of this drug, but the efficacy is not sufficiently scientifically demonstrated. An international summary of available evidence concludes that there is insufficient evidence that Betaserc has an effect on Ménière’s disease. Betaserc has not had a marketing authorisation in Norway. The reason is that the manufacturer of the preparation has not applied for such authorisation. The preparation, however, has a marketing authorisation in Denmark, and at the request of the Norwegian pharmacist, the medicinal product may be imported from there. However, the manufacturer has now applied for such a marketing authorisation. However, medicinal products which do not have a marketing authorisation in Norway may be used on so-called registration waivers upon application by the treating physician. A product without a marketing authorisation has not been evaluated by Norwegian health authorities. Thus, the applicant doctor is responsible for the patient’s safety. The application must be renewed every year, as the representative was involved. The scheme thus requires medical visits at least once a year. These are not pro forma medical consultations, but a system to ensure the safety of patients. The scheme provides patients with the possibility of access to a drug not authorised in Norway. Otherwise, all prescriptions need to be renewed at least once a year, which is appropriate for patients, including: to have a follow-up and control of long-term treatment. So it's not special for patients with Méniere's disease. Medicinal products authorised for marketing in Norway receive a maximum price. The representative pointed out that there was a higher price in Norway. The maximum price is set as an average of the three lowest prices in nine comparative countries in northern Europe. Therefore, drug prices in Norway are generally low. This applies to those medicinal products with a marketing authorisation that are used for Ménière's disease, e.g. anaesthetic or antifungal medicines. Medicinal products that do not have a marketing authorisation also do not have a maximum price. The price of imported medicinal products will normally be slightly higher in Norway than in the country from which it is imported. This is largely due to the fact that there may be increased costs related to special import – as mentioned by the company that has Betaserc, now applied for marketing authorisation from Norwegian health authorities – and therefore the price of Betaserc in Norway is increased by twice the price in Denmark. Annual consumption of Betaserc in Norway is likely to cost between DKK1 800 and NOK 4000, depending on the dose taken. Compared to many other medicinal products, this must be described as a moderate price level. Ménière’s disease is not included in the list of diseases in the prescription. This means that no ordinary pre-authorised reimbursement may be granted under Section 9 of the Blue Recipe Regulation. A major reason why the disease is not listed is that there have been no medicinal products with satisfactory effect so far. However, reimbursement may be sought for the treatment of rare diseases, as mentioned above, in accordance with Section 2 of the regulation. This type of application is dealt with by the National Agency for Social Security and Reimbursement is granted in serious cases. Interpellanten, representative of Brørby, said in his interview that Ménière lacked a firm, public offer of training and rehabilitation. The offer that is can probably be much better. But it is not entirely in accordance with my information that we do not have such offers. We have regular offers for Ménière hit and tinnitus spaces in four of our health regions. The offer is provided by learning and mastering centres in six different hospitals. In addition, courses are provided for hearing damage and deaf people. In the case of balance sheet rehabilitation, this is a highly specialised offer, which is not yet widely available. Some public and private clinics have specialist physiotherapists who can initiate and follow up such treatment. Research is ongoing at the Oslo University of Balance Rehabilitation, and it is hoped that this project will help to develop methods and disseminate knowledge in this very special field. In Norway, we have largely sought to build up a comprehensive and generally good patient offer covering all patient groups, rather than a model of special care based on single diagnosis. I think that's good reasons to stick to the principle of – because it's the very foundation of a decentralised specialist health service. For this reason, I have put extra pressure on the conversion of the local hospital functions. Local hospitals shall focus on the provision of services in the major disease groups, such as chronically ill people, which need to be close to the service provision. An important part of a good and coherent offer to chronically ill people is learning and mastering measures. In this field, we have seen a formidable development in Norway. There has been a tripling of the number of centres in the last three years. These offers can certainly be developed further, for example: as an interaction action and through telemedicine solutions. Finally, the representative addressed the issue of the creation of national standards: some time ago, the Directorate for Social and Health has been tasked with developing national standards to approximate this very special disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e605	Does the interpellant want the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e608	Do I get the final word?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e615	Yeah, so does the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e618	Then I wait until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e625	I think it is very good that the representative Brørby has raised this matter to Stortinget. Because then the Storting for a while back treated St.meld. No 40 for 2002–03 Disability reduction, Stortingen had a strong focus on many different disabilities, and so on in the context of the high levels of absenteeism and the many disadvantaged people we have in this country. But still there is a basis for looking at new groups of people who have major challenges in everyday life. Many have invisible disabilities that characterize everyday life. Méniere is such a suffering, invisible, but very annoying, so annoying that many cannot function in a normal everyday life. Many are left out of work and social life. It will probably surprise many, as it surprised me, that 40 000 people in the country have Méniere. Then we have to ask ourselves, what is the reason why so many nordics go around and have earaches and are dizzy? It is thoughtful that it is as the representative of Brørby points out, that our neighbouring countries have better knowledge and treatment than we do in Norway, for the sufferings of Ménière and tinnitus. We know from our neighbouring countries that with good treatment, many of these patients can function so that they can be in full employment and get a much better working life. That must be one of our main objectives. We have a good health care system in Norway for the acutely ill. The vast majority of those who meet the Norwegian health system, that is, they are well treated, and they have good cure for their disease. For some groups, however, the waiting time is too long and the price of treatment is very expensive, as the representative Bröhrby points out. Patients with balance sheet diseases need a change in status, and we want this debate to contribute to it. When we look at cochlea implants, it's been a revolution for the patients who have been so lucky to be prioritised in this queue. Fortunately, many children have been given priority. But still it is that this treatment is not on the rails, nor for children. When I heard the Council's response, I got a feeling that it was almost an outline of the situation. And that's important enough. I probably wanted the Council of State in its response to the interpellant to be something more concrete about what the future would bring to all the people who have this suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e636	Despite intensive research in several countries, the cause of Ménière’s disease remains undetected. One possible reason may be incorrect regulation of the fluid in the inner ear. One estimates that between 30,000 and 40,000 people have this disease in Norway. Both sexes are equally affected, most of them in working age. Audiogram shows two different forms of Ménieres. One shows a deterioration in the bass, while the other appears to show a deterioration in the treble. Many suggest that the reason for this is that the patient has either been exposed to severe noise over a long period of time or an explosion, or has suffered a hard blow to his head, for example. in a car accident. The symptoms are common to both types of Ménière disease. Periods of intense dizziness, oesophagus, ear pressure and hearing loss are the most common. Many get poorer quality of life and isolate themselves. Control of the level of noise in discos can prevent young people from suffering. My impression is that one is increasingly aware of this disease. To exclude the presence of virus or tumour on the balance nerve, a blood test and MR are taken. The hospital in Arendal takes blood samples automatically, because we have a lot of fluid in periods, and this insect can be the bearer of a virus that leads to problems with the balance. According to the Landsförbund, HLF, a third party of those affected will be disarmed. No treatment is appropriate for everyone. This group is very heterogeneous, and it is good that we now have a patient rights law that says that an individual deadline should be set for treatment. The individual shall receive a medical assessment. In addition, we have free hospital choice. As far as I know, the treatment consists of dietary measures, medications, balance training by physiotherapist and various operations. Hearing aids may be a good tool. The Kingdom Hospital in Denmark is testing a new method. The menu is a device that the patient himself can use. Through a drain, a pressure in the ear regulates, and dizziness disappears. The Christian People's Party expects there to be good Nordic cooperation in this area. We hope that soon there will be a medicinal product that has such a well-documented effect that it can receive a marketing authorisation and reimbursement. For patients, it is good that there is a registration waiver upon application from the prescribers. There are several learning and mastering centres, in addition, HLF has its own Ménière selection and county contacts in all the counties involved in the course and information work. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that these cooperate with the hearing contacts that exist in each municipality, for the benefit of the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e657	The interpellant himself thought that knowledge gave power. I want to add, based on what she described, that coincidences like to provide solutions. It shouldn't be like that. It is important that even narrow and small areas have offers and medical solutions that can give individuals a better daily life. The interpellant himself stated that this was a small area, and the health minister commented that it was about. 1 per million of the population with Ménière’s disease. 1 million can quickly lead someone to think that this is very small. So this is going to be approximately. 40,000 people in this country. It is important that we have an offer for these, so that they get a better life and a better everyday life, which enables them to cope with their illness in work for normal living. The interpellant also said that she was busy looking at what one can do, and what should be done, for these patient groups. That's what I'm going to assume, these small disease areas that maybe don't seem so easily and are heard in relation to the larger ones. It is important that we within the ear-nose-neck speciality, among other things. have knowledge that they may receive an offer with Ménière’s disease. It is important that we have standardised treatment arrangements and that cross-border research and cooperation can provide us with knowledge that can be used in Norway. It should not be such that coincidences and contacts outside the border provide solutions. Other areas have also been mentioned for hearing problems and diseases. Cochlea implants have been mentioned as one area in which at least one has been given a better solution now than a short time ago in the case of children. But there are still long waiting times to get a complete and proper treatment. There's also a lot of adults who could have helped with this. I hope that the Health Minister has noticed what has been said, and that there may be an intensified treatment system, an offer, for these. The Minister of Health referred to this with individual deadlines and free hospital choice. However, there needs to be expertise and treatment provision available in Norway to help with this. It is that knowledge gives the power to solve these health problems to these small groups. Randomity needs to be replaced by planned and organised treatment services. It has to be that we get medicines that one has given marketing authorisation for – and thus has cost limitations and control – and that we also get a disease that affects 40,000 people in this country, registered under the prescription system, so that at least one can get individual reimbursement for these medicines. If we have services in four regions, there is much to suggest that the offer may be too poorly known and too poorly developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e673	I would like to thank the Council of State for his review and for the status report he gave here on what has been done so far in Norway with regard to Ménière’s disease – also what the disease really is. But the disease is, it is. The most important thing now is to focus on how to improve the quality of life of all those affected. I would also like to thank you in particular for the order that the Council of State has given to look at a standardised treatment plan. It's a step in the right direction. I just want to comment on a few things that the council said. There are many diseases you do not know why – Ménière’s disease is one of them. I would like to ask the Council of State for the following: Tell Health West to spread the knowledge and patient-oriented measures they have! Give it the message! It will be important for this patient group. I would like to ask the Council of State to approve the preparation of Betaserc. I'm an example of how it works. It's over 50 pst. by those who have tested this product, it is effective. Why should they not then have that opportunity in a simpler way? The council also said that the doctors could not be expected to know. Well, I expect Norwegian doctors to know, at least the Nordic doctor knows. That's why there's a gap in competence, which is not going to benefit Norwegian patients. More information on this disease needs to be disseminated, and doctors need to know. Take youth seriously, too, is my challenge to the Council of State, when the youth himself wants to focus on preventing hearing damage! There are small, simple means they have applied for, which could help many to avoid hearing damage and a bad life later in life. I have received an answer to something. Much remains when it comes to this particular patient group. Blue prescription is also a simplification of the availability of an effective medicinal product. Therefore, my heartfelt call to the Council of State is: Use the stakeholder organisations who have a lot of knowledge! Don't let it go pastors in who should know the most! The most important thing here is to get something that works, and that can make the quality of life of a lot of people much, much better. We have a common responsibility to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e696	What I can at least say is that there is no achievement associated with any aspects of this matter. Let me try to answer very quickly and scrupulously something of the interpellant – and also other speakers – was related to cochlea implants and children. That's right, the definite main priority has been children. It has now come into such a routine that what has been done is taken on a continuous basis. Then the capacity is expanded, primarily by increasing the capacity of St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim for the harvest. This means that many of the adults who have been in line for too long will have a different meeting with cochlea implants. If someone had understood it this way when I mentioned one in a thousand, that means there's a small disease group: no, this isn't a small disease group, it's 40,000. Small disease groups mean we're down on really small numbers. So this is a large group. What my medical experts say is the problem is that you do not have an international overall treatment plan that has been verified. As far as cross-border cooperation is concerned, there are almost no areas in society where more is based on international cooperation. We have Nordic cooperation, and of course we rely on important international professional journals in the medical world to see what is being published. In this respect, with clinical guidelines for different conditions, the Directorate for Social and Health has been given a mandate. With regard to the drug Betaserc, which has been mentioned here today, it is such that it has had a marketing authorisation since 1977 in Denmark. When they did not apply for it in Norway at the time, it was because the company did not have an office in Norway. However, the company established itself in Norway in 1997 and now has an application for marketing authorisation in Norway. It is the State Medicines Agency that deals with these applications. I don't think there's any reason to assume that it won't be a reality, so there's going to be a new situation in Norwegian pharmacy, by getting that medicine. Finally, the invitation from the representative Brørby to tell Health West to spread that information, the knowledge they're sitting on, I'm of course going to comply in the form of letters to Health West, and so far also to the directorate, which is a fasilitator for that very thing. Otherwise, I just want to finish by saying that to the extent that someone should have good suggestions for action or have references to things that we should do in this area, and that we don't, it's absolutely useful input. Just so it doesn't have to go back to our general practitioners: I don't think their level of knowledge is lower than the level of knowledge of Danish, Swedish and Finnish colleagues. The point is that making the final diagnosis is probably not a job for the general practitioners, but for the specialists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e717	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e728	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e736	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 6, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 7 and 8, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e772	Proposal No. 6, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal for a reimbursement scheme for cell toxicity treatment based on the fact that the costs of such treatment are borne by the National Anti-Fraud Office, irrespective of whether the patient is a member of a health institution or not.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e787	Proposals Nos. 1-5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party shall be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e835	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e869	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they support III subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e887	The President here assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e920	The President here expects the Progress Party and the Central Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-30.ana.ud1608e952	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
