ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e80	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e89	The proposal for a new law on property registration does not create the major disagreement in the committee. There has been a clean process from all parts, and the setting is unanimous in many areas. Nevertheless, we only need to record that in this area too, the red-greens will demonstrate their ideological resistance to the outsourcing and private provision of services by voting against the Government's proposal to distinguish between service production and public administration in the field of property registration. However, I am pleased that the government parties and the Progress Party form a majority of the Government's proposals for a distinction between production and management in this area. But it may first be right to point out the importance of getting such a law to be passed today. For the vast majority of developed countries, good registration and matriculation of property, borders, encumbrances, etc. essential to safeguard private ownership and to lay the foundations for good economic development. The interaction between the matrix and the directory of settlements shall complement each other and form the main lines of a national property information system. Furthermore, a new registration system could facilitate faster progress towards a more user-friendly and efficient public administration. The use of modern data exchange technologies, both between public offices and between registers and users, frees up time for other important tasks in administration, and, no less important, makes life easier for us users. The majority of the Committee concludes on the Government’s proposal to distinguish government from service production. It is proposed that municipalities may choose to organise the work on the service part of the property registration themselves, but that the provision of private services is the main legal solution. However, it appears that the municipalities may decide that they shall have exclusive rights to measurement transactions in their municipality. The measurement business does not involve any public decision. Measurement has often been a bottleneck in the municipalities and has often delayed sharing and construction processes. It is therefore well placed to achieve faster and more flexible implementation with private surveyors. A separation of the service part may also allow for more complex properties to be resolved within acceptable time-frames, and may also allow for more complex real estate to be resolved in such a way. A clear premise must be that the person carrying out the survey can demonstrate a high level of competence. The legal text establishes this requirement for private enterprises, but does not explicitly state that such competence is also a requirement if the municipality chooses to continue its exclusive right to measure. However, the majority believe that it should be just as obvious to public measurement competence requirements as for private individuals, so that we can ensure good quality of this type of service throughout the country. The Committee agrees with the Government’s proposal that a central governing authority be responsible for the operation of the matricle, but that local matricle governing powers should exercise it. It is also agreed that the Ministry of the Environment should be responsible for the national level. Municipalities should be responsible for driving the matrix either on their own or in inter-municipal cooperation. The legislative proposal continues with the current register units land, land and ownership. However, two new registry units are also introduced: plant property and soil. The register unit of fixed assets includes volume above or below the surface of the land, building volume such as: parking space below ground level or ceiling above ground level. The proposals ensure that the right to property does not fall outside the scope of the matriculation. A long-term objective is to have a uniform address system for the whole country, and that all properties that have not previously been identified — and there are actually about 900,000 properties that lack a full address — are measured and marked and given an address as other properties. Law on property registration is an important law. It ensures good systems of boundaries between properties, ensures the right to property in the field of asset clearing, simplifies and aggregates data collection, and the separation of the service part can provide consumers with a flexible, rapid and reasonable execution of measuring transactions. Services may also provide a new, exciting industry, which can raise the standard of measurement with a high level of competence. The majority of the Committee considers the separation of services as an important contribution to the concentration of municipalities in all the key areas where decisions need to be taken by elected bodies, so that they do not need to use resources on services as well as private ones. I therefore recommend the adoption of the Law on the Registration of Ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e117	The thing we're dealing with here today is full of politics, and it has important principal aspects. As the rapporteur went on to say, there is a unanimous committee behind most of the legislative changes. Many of the changes are necessary to meet new requirements for property registration services, including: due to technological developments. However, on one very important and central point, we in the minority strongly disagree, and on the Government's proposal that limits should be measured according to the tendering principle. We believe that this is another example of the one-sided focus of the Government on privatisation and outsourcing as a means of improving the efficiency of the local government sector. It's claimed that our resistance is ideologically justified. I don't know if there's anything wrong with it. At least my clear view is that the person who is the subject of that change is at least equally ideological in its rationale. Today, the municipality stands for all aspects of the property registration. As a general rule, the government will provide municipalities with private services and free choice of surveyors. However, it is now open to municipalities to derogate from this general rule, either by employing a surveyor who combines the service with other tasks in the municipality, or by setting up their own surveyors, which will be able to provide services in competition with private enterprises. The government uses as an important argument for the amendment of the law that it will stimulate a whole new consulting market. I can't understand why setting up one's own consulting industry is an argument for a change in today's practice. Property boundaries are in a special position by being both private property and public infrastructure, while at least there is very rarely one party to a property boundary. The working party considers that property limits are not appropriate for the tendering principle, where one of the parties to a new frontier hires the land meter to register the place of the boundary. In our opinion, offers of property measurement will also not provide better quality or cheaper services. In Denmark, the only country in the Nordic region that has privatised this service, the service is far more expensive than in Norway. As the law is now being promoted, the right and the obligation to measure property are moved away from the municipalities and over to a bidding round between each individual private individual who needs a limit measured and the providers of surveying services. Even today, there are many examples of municipalities hiring private surveyors, for example: when they have capacity problems. This way, there's nothing fundamentally new that it opens up for here. The new principle is that a general rule should be to have surveyed by private surveyors. We fear that the mapping environments in the municipalities will be depleted if the municipalities no longer have the primary responsibility to carry out the survey. This will particularly affect smaller municipalities. In this case, municipalities will be even more dependent on having a nearby County Map Office, but the Government reduced the number of county Maps Offices in connection with the ‘Norway Digital’ message as known. That makes the proposal even more unfortunate. A large number of municipalities, GeoForum, Norwegian Institute of Engineering and the Ministry of Municipalities fear that the spatial data competence of municipalities will be weakened and that you will have a poorer service provision locally. Several municipalities are concerned that there will be a shift of competence from the municipalities in the field of maps and surveying. In addition, of course, staffing will take place in the municipalities that choose to publish the survey data, and this includes approximately today. 480 years' work in the municipalities. We believe this matter is being incorporated into the line of ideological right-wing policy. Since this is one of the last times I have the floor in the Chamber, I would like to take the opportunity to quote former centre party leader Anne Enger Lahnstein, who said: this country does not need more right-wing policy. That is why the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre say no to the Government's proposal, which will lead to more market and less social governance. I'll take up the suggestions that we're on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e140	The representative Synnøve Konglevoll has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e143	Once again, this right-wing government is experiencing its ideological struggle against public services to get the most privatized of what is already public and well-driving. It is not surprising that the Right is a driving force here, what is amazing, is that the Christian People's Party among others. is part of this galleen. It hasn't always been that the Christian People's Party has wanted a very privatisation of the public sector, but they're now on their right run this time as well. Otherwise, what's interesting is that this time we don't do the right thing they tend to do, simply find some point or other in the EEA Agreement and say that we don't have to do it because of the EEA Agreement, as they have said in the last few days in relation to the industrial power regime, and as they said yesterday when it came to prioritizing the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, where they said we can't do anything, because we don't have tools. At least it's nice that someone now stands for what one stands for, and don't push a deal that one of your own is very much for, to get a privatization. There is no doubt that this is an ideological right-wing revolution from a right-wing government that depends on the support of the Progress Party. Today, it is well illustrated that the Right needs the Progress Party, and Bondevik needs the Progress Party, to sit in that position as a sit-in to push right through politics. So it's that SV also agrees with many of the grips that were taken, with the exception of this privatisation. It is necessary to adapt part of the law to a new time, and therefore we are at the top of the list, with the exception of the supply issue that Right is running forward. It's a little surprising with this offer. If you look at it a little bit differently, say you have a quote of NOK 10000. Then a light will light it up on offer instead of today, where we have someone in the municipality who does this. So one's going to put this on offer, and it's going to sit ten to fifteen companies and count this. So how is the bill going to be? Isn't it true that when you're going to have different people competing for different offers, there's going to be a social accounting out of this, where supply actually becomes quite expensive, if you count the hours it takes to count this supply? So this privatisation and ideological struggle as Right with the support of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left leader, has a shadow side, a medal and an expenditure post that is not always visible. So one has the fact that once you've done this privatisation, a push can take responsibility and say that we can't do anything about it, because it's privatized. It's not publicly governed anymore, and that's good right-wing policy. Leave more and more to market forces, and it'll take care of itself, and then one really doesn't need a politician to control this at all. Then it becomes more uncertain for them to add, and there will be more precarious jobs, but the most important thing is that we get privatized, and get consultants who can do this. In addition, Denmark, which has been at the forefront of this, says that after privatising it has become three times more expensive. Then there should be a crucifixion for the Right People, who are concerned that things should be so cheap, and whose only value is that it should be at least possible, that it has actually become more expensive in Denmark to have this service carried out. We think it should be a public problem. What is it really about the system we have today, which is so problematic? Since it is likely cheaper to operate as it is today, and since it is likely to be much safer for the workplace and for workers to have what we have today, why should this right-wing government also press forward this privatisation? Yes, of course, because it's their policy. So let's just see if the other parties in the government, with the support of the Progress Party, are still on the gallery to privatize public services. Then the new government, the red-green, will counteract this privatisation. The government we now have depends on the Progress Party. Win the options, additional public services will be privatized, and added will face an uncertain future with the possible continuation of the Bondevik government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e162	I had originally not intended to take the floor, but Hallgeir H. Langeland gave the Christian People's Party an invitation that I feel I have to comment on. I will answer a affirmative no to both Synnove Konglevoll and Hallgeir Langeland that this is an ideological question for the Christian People's Party, but we see that it is for the two parties. There is a reflex movement in the spinal cord only the first spelling of the word privately mentioned in one context or another, and I can ask the question back to Hallgeir Langeland: What in the world is it that you should no longer privatize in Norway? It's almost as if, based on the argument to Hallgeir Langeland, you're going to make private businesses public today, perhaps for ideological reasons. For the Christian People's Party, it is important – and it is reflected in the majority's position – to be on the side of users. What we want is to make an offer that is primarily served to users, and not necessarily bureaucrats or those who had to sit in various employee organisations around in the service of municipalities. We're going to be in the user's service. It's on the ground. And then the goal is that we should be able to make this more reasonable. That's the whole point of sending something out on offer. Both previous speakers referred to Denmark that it has become more expensive there. The point is that when you have it on offer, you have to be able to get it more reasonable. And we have the opening that the majority assumes, that if the municipalities assess it so that it is best for them to have this on public monopoly hands, yes, they have the opportunity to do so. So the law doesn't lock it up. For the sake of users and to get rid of a bottleneck that is very bureaucratic in most of the Municipality of Norway, we will give users the opportunity to choose services. This will help to give us a more efficient and more functional and flexible service provision. Discriminating service provision and administration in this particular area could not be the big issue of privatisation in Norway. I have the impression that you see ghosts almost said on a daylight day in this context. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe that it is more important for public Norway to carry out as a public task than the question of who should measure land borders to properties around the country. Our starting point is always to be on the users' side of this, and the law facilitates it. We are fully convinced that once this has been achieved in the individual municipality, a positive effect will be shown primarily to the users. Finally, I would like to say again: we are removing a bottleneck, we are creating a more flexible system, and not least we are opening up a kind of freedom of choice for the municipalities that they do not have per. today. So it can be useful if you come to the conclusion that it's not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e181	The central party supports the main features of the bill. Proper and relevant ownership information is useful and important for societal development and economic activity. Therefore, we are also involved in most of the things in the configuration. However, as representatives of the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party have been involved, there is a minority in the Committee that disagrees with the privatisation of the measurement services provided by the Government as a general rule. It is difficult for the centre to see that a division of the measuring services into a service part, which is mainly to be performed by private individuals, and an administrative part, to be performed by the municipalities, will bring special benefits. In fact, the experience from Denmark suggests the opposite. Then there might be reason to ask if the main point with such a breakdown is to facilitate a new consulting industry. It is also apparent from the proposition that such a change can be expected to provide more expensive services for the inhabitants and poorer access to such services in many parts of the country. There is a development that the center party does not want. Half of the municipalities that have expressed their views on the proposal are opposed to splitting up the measurement services and privatising parts of them. The Ministry of Local Affairs and many municipalities state that the privatisation proposal will result in poorer local services. In areas with a low customer base, there would hardly be any basis for setting up a private measuring company. So people have to buy the services from a company that gets a long way. This means that services will also be more expensive. Today's system, where everyone can get this service done by their own municipality, or if the municipality does not have the capacity itself, is that a tenant takes in private to care for parts of the measuring services, a better solution. This would be more rational than the fact that each individual land buyer has to outsource his assignment on offer. In addition, municipalities will continue to rely on the provision of Mapping staff. Municipalities shall check and guide the information into the matrix. In order to maintain the mapping environment in municipalities and to prevent the loss of municipalities for professionals, there should be a certain amount of cartographic work in municipalities. There are many reasons why it is most rational and provides the cheapest services if the municipalities still have the full measuring service. In the government's proposal, there is just enough opening to introduce local regulation on municipal unit rights to carry out the survey services. But the Central Party believes that this will only be able to compensate to a small extent for the problems that will arise in many district municipalities. Privatisation will become the main rule with this bill, and it will not provide citizens with better or cheaper services.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e198	I am pleased that a Joint Committee can agree to most of the proposals from the Ministry for the New Law on Ownership Registration, even if the Committee shares the question of free choice of land painters. I attach great importance to the fact that municipalities should be able to stand free to find the organisation that is best suited to the individual municipality. I think many municipalities will follow the legal solution, with free country painters. Some municipalities will be able to leave the service area to private companies alone. Many municipalities have a well-functioning measuring service that they want to continue in open competition with the private sector. The legislative proposal facilitates this. However, the municipality may also decide to pass on the municipal sole responsibility if the municipality finds this desirable. I cannot recommend the model of the minority in the committee. The model implies that property surveys will still be a compulsory task for all municipalities. Many municipalities want to focus their efforts on health, school, culture and other key welfare services. Property surveying is a service that can well be carried out by private professionals, just as we have private real estate agents and private lawyers. The surveyor does not have any form of judge or control role. This is made clear in the bill. A safe and efficient equity market plays an important role in the development of wealth. In 2004, the value of ownership transfers was estimated to be nearly DKK 180 billion. When numbers become so large, even small improvements in efficiency have much to say for total costs. The reform facilitates a simpler management of property. A range of socio-economic studies from different countries show that investments in spatial information and property information are of high value. Property, address and building register, GAB, was established in 1978. The register was for the time being a modern EDB-based property register, but needs modernisation today. The matrix will be a modern extension of the GAB register, but must also include maps of ownership. The matrix will improve access to ownership information for users. Users will have access to new information about public impositions, cultural memory and polluted land. The information will be presented in a more understandable way. In 2002, Stortinget decided to transfer the information from the courts to the State Mapping Office. The matrix and base book shall be filled in each other. While the base book is a legal register, the matrix should provide information about physical conditions and other important information that is not necessary or possible to disclose. The state's mapping will have the central responsibility for both the matrix and the base book. Users have long asked for a legal way to register underground warehouses, land-covered buildings and other building volumes. This is now solved by introducing plant property as a new register unit. The laws will also provide a better basis for registering traditional plots of land, i.e. area lying in the same area between multiple gardens. The law introduces a transfer of land as a new offer for simple and probable change of area at all sizes between ownerships bordering on each other. The law also provides a good basis for getting a fully developed address system for the whole country. Finally, I would like to point out that the reform will contribute to a more efficient and user-friendly public administration. Easy access to key information such as garden and utility numbers and building addresses will provide efficient public service offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e226	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e229	The government argues for its proposal, inter alia: with the value of creating a completely new consulting market in the private sector. For me, this is mostly about the rationale for the proposal, especially in view of the experience from other countries, which shows that it provides neither cheaper nor better services to the population. Norway is a long-distance country with a lot of scattered settlements. My question is, can the Council of State explain how the Government's proposal benefits people living in this long-range country who are actually going to use the services, and not just for a whole new consulting industry that is going to make money on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e237	This proposal, which we are presenting here, will precisely lead to the modernisation of this work. It is that in some municipalities this works well today, in other municipalities it works worse. We are proposing a modernisation that will improve. It is not without reason that the Consumer Council gives us its full support. There is something strange about the fact that there was a former workers' party government that started this work. A selection came up with a proposal, and a straight selection splits into two parts, but the whole selection is connected to the one provided by the government. None of the selection, which means that the workers' partisan government is going down, is going for the minority that they want. If that's how we're going to experience a possible new red government, a government that won't look forward, but that will be backward and not choose modernized and good solutions for most people, yes, then I think it's scary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e244	SV thought it was important to be modern. But we won't be modern if it's about building down jobs and privatizing and then labeling it as modern. Once you're for privatization, a modern one is, but it's not that easy, and so does the government. The Council of State stated that it was important now for the municipalities to concentrate on nuclear activities such as culture, school and well-being, osb. Yes, that's what needs to be done as the municipal economy of the governments of Solberg and Hareide begins to work. Things are no longer possible in municipalities. SV takes the consequences of this and adds to the local economy just to be able to maintain a public, efficient service provision in most areas. But it's immature, the Council of State thought. The modern thing is to be on the Right team, one found by the Christian People's Party. Putting things on offer and actually making things more expensive, that's what's the real thing. Is that a good and modern direction, this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e251	Yes, I'm sure this is a modern and good solution. Here we give choices to the municipalities. We say to the municipalities that want to keep their practices today: for our part. But for those who want to develop intercommunal cooperation, there are now very good opportunities here, among other things. to intercommunal companies. Our experience is that to ensure that the cows go down and get better services, competition is not unhealthy. Land painter choices are not at the heart of what I think should be public welfare tasks. The land painter has no task of judging, no top of the board of directors. A job needs to be done, to measure a limit. Those who want to do it municipally will be allowed to do it. But it's just as well done privately, and who of us wants the property hall today to be a public task?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e260	In fact, we in the Workers' Party believe that property boundaries are in a special position because they deal with both private property and public infrastructure. So even though this doesn't apply to nursing homes or kindergartens, it's actually a very central task in society that we think the public should have control of. In addition, centralisation of this task can lead to a detoxification of important professional environments, to which most people should have access. The second is that I think it's a little strange that the Council of State assumes that because we put down a public sample that would look at it, and that, among other things. have proposed changes to adapt this to new technologies and to new requirements, and we will adopt in a way all the solutions proposed by the public body. I expect that the Christian People's Party will also not support all the details in everything that public selection they have put down, suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e267	What I pointed to in this public selection was that there was both a minority and a multiple, but that there was no one in this selection that pointed to the solution that the minority in Odelstinget today is behind. It is a paradox that absolutely none of the selections found the solution that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party point to today. I would like to stress that surveyors do not have any form of judgment or management role. This is also evident in the bill. When detecting the existing limit, surveyors shall only document what the parties are actually aware of. In sharing ownership, neighbours have no direct role to play. Many point out that municipalities have an important role to play here, but often the municipalities are also a party to such issues. That's why I thought the possibility we give here is optional, optional for the municipalities, and it often talks about these parties very much in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e276	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e281	I will not try to provoke them to receive many more articles. Denmark is mentioned, but be aware that apples and bananas do not cost exactly the same. If you look at what I actually did, that's not exactly what was said. This should at least be checked a little better before one says that it is true that in Denmark it is twice as expensive and ten times as expensive. That's not true if you compare the same thing. The second is this with tenders. Nor is it the case that, if you want to get a property measured up, you send it out on a tender. It's not like that. There will always be a surveyor’s business nearby — just as there is a real estate agency — maybe there are two. Then you make an assessment of them, but you don't send out hard tenders. The third is that I've been working on these things many years ago. Then the Workers' Party was running here in the hall, and the Workers' Party was running the municipalities, and the queues and all the time used to stock these measuring shops took much longer than measuring the properties. So it's important now that you see this a little bit in context, that this is about measuring, putting down the poles and getting the meter letter issued, and then you're done. There's not a lot of politics in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e292	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 987]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e308	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply will be given to members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e317	I Ot. pp. No 52 for 2004-2005, the Ministry proposes amendments to ‘Law of 6 July 2003 no. 39 on the law of the trustee’s law’, in order to ensure the protection of rights in shares of the lien by means of a briefing in the base book. This will result in an overall public register for both owner-occupied dwellings and housing units. I will first point out that when this case was dealt with last time – Innst. O. No 82 for 2002-2003, cf. Ot. pp. No 30 for 2002–03 — the bulk of the population decided to facilitate competition between private and public actors in the establishment and operation of housing registers. However, the majority of the majority of the population, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, made the decision conditional on the existence of a basis for effective competition and that a sufficient number of operators would notify their interest in the establishment and operation of such registers. However, the Ministry’s inquiry into whether there is a basis for ensuring the necessary degree of competition, as envisaged by the majority of the population, has shown that there is a rather weak basis for obtaining a necessary and effective competition to establish and maintain these registers of residence. The Ministry has therefore concluded that the conditions of competition in the market cannot be met by Storting and that, therefore, an approximate private monopoly would be granted by NBBL. For these reasons, the Ministry has therefore found reasons to re-examine its original proposal. My view is that, in the choice between public and private monopolies, there is an overall assessment that, in such a context, the least desirable situation would be a private monopoly. Nor does there seem to be any serious, factual arguments against the exclusion of rights in shares in housing rights from the overall property information register. Thus, the majority of the Grand Duchy, consisting of the Government Parties and the Advance Party, has found no reason to doubt the Ministry's conclusion in this way. These lots share the Ministry's assessments and therefore support the Ministry's proposal that the registration of housing for housing for housing for housing for housing for residents be carried out under public control and that the register system be integrated into the base book. The Ministry also proposes that this service be carried out at a self-cost level, which is suggested by the Department for about 400 to 500 kroner in registration fees. The same majority support this recommendation. The aim is that the register of residents should be operational by 1 June 2006. Since it will take some time to get the register up, the Ministry proposes a split introduction of the new housing law, which has not yet entered into force, so that the majority of the law can be brought into force as soon as possible. The necessary transitional rules are also proposed. Furthermore, it is considered that the residence register should be located outside Oslo, and it has been indicated that Ullenswang is the Government’s proposal for location options for the residence register if the Storting joins a model with a state register system. In the case of the other parties, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, I assume that they themselves explain their respective views in relation to various issues relating to this matter. I also mention that the members of the Committee from the Government Parties and the Advance Party in this context promote proposals for equal treatment of fiscal ‘management services provided by the Housing Building Laws for related housing laws and between stand-alone housing laws and joint societies’. Furthermore, a unanimous committee, in the form of a note, states that the creation of a public housing law register does not have to result in the imposition of document fees on housing and share apartments. This is an important clarification. I would like to end by including the proposal in the vote behind the motion for a resolution by the Government Parties and the Advance Party and recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e345	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e348	About two years ago, the Stortinget dealt with a new law on housing law and housing law. When the opposition in Stortinget, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre decided that the residence register could continue to be operated by private persons, and that, among other things, the cooperatives of dwellings could be involved in this context. It is the housing laws that have so far carried out this task for the almost 6,000 housing teams in Norway. This has worked well. There has been no complaint. There was no need to make changes. It would have secured jobs around the whole country. This would have helped to contribute to viable housing communities also in the districts. But once again we experience here that the Progress Party changes its mind. It's not the first time, and it's probably not going to be the last time. What you stand for today does not apply tomorrow. It shows that the party is not to be trusted. It takes notice of the Workers' Party. The government believes that there could be no effective competition between private housing registers. The Labour Party disagrees, for the Government never established the framework conditions for competition between private registers. Thus, no private person has ever been given the opportunity to apply to be authorised. In a letter to the Committee on 26 May this year, OBOS and Bergen and Omegn Housing companies that they intend to operate competing housing registers. But the majority of the Biggest only rejects the whole case. Here we are talking about a state monopoly, which the Government and the Advance Party believe will cost what it will cost. It's quite special to see who's behind this majority. Nor can the Council of State respect legal decisions here in the Chamber. Because what's going on? Well, the Council of State spends two years initiating the new law, and returns to the Stortinget with a proposal for a state housing register – the opposite of what the Stortinget has asked for. Is it because the Council of State knows that not everyone is committed to its decisions? I'm just asking. The Workers' Party has made proposals to ensure free competition in the operation of the residence registers in order to provide better and cheaper services to residents in housing laws. The working party will vote against large parts of the setting. We have not changed our position on this matter. We still believe that we should go in order that it should not be a state monopoly, but that there should be competition to operate housing registers, and we will go in for it. I therefore take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-09-lower.ana.ud1415e367	The representative Signe Eye has taken up the proposal she referred to. The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late.
