ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-02.ana.ud1450e26	The representatives Peter Skovholt Gitmark and Robert Eriksson, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the West-Agder County, Kari Henriksen, has taken the seat. There are two letters from the Prime Minister's office to Stortinget. The first letter dated 21 October 2005 reads: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 21 October 2005 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined:The following is appointed as Secretary of State Kjersti Markusson for Council of State Kristin HalvorsenChairman Dag-Henrik Sandbåkken for Council of State Åslaug Marie HagaResearch Skjetil Skøgrand for Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr StøreHMS Director Anita Utseth for Council of State Odd Roger EnoxsenGroup Secretary Frode Berge for Council of State Odd EriksenWjarne Political Secretary Karin Yrvin for Council of State Odd EriksenAdvokat Steinulf tonguesvik for Council of State Life Sign NarvaseteDepartment Jan-Erik Minister of State Counsellor Bjarne Håkon HanssenPolitical Counsellor Libe S. Rieber-Mohn for Council of State Håkon HanssenSocial Consultant Laila Gustavsen for Council of State Harne Hånutskåndårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårårår The second letter, dated 28 October 2005, reads: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 28 October 2005 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is decided:The following is hereby appointed State Secretary:Advokat Liv Monica Bargem Stubholt for Minister for Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre for accession 7 November 2005General Secretary Raymond Johansen for Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr StøreReineier Berit Oskal Eira for Council of State Bjarne Håkon HanssenSocial ombudsman Krishna Chudasama for Council of State Karita BekkemelmePresident Ola T Heggem for Council of State Terje Riis-Johansen» The President proposes that these two letters be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. 4. The alternate of Oslo, Khalid Mahmood, is proposed to meet under the leave of the representative Marianne Marthinsen. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Khalid Mahmood is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Marianne Marthinsen. – It is also considered to be adopted. Khalid Mahmood is present and will take his seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave on days 2 and 3 November in order to take part in the delegation of the Interparliamentary Union to the 60th General Assembly of the United Nations in New York from the Right-wing Group on the birth permit of the representative Torbjørn Hansen from 2 November to 11 November in the period from 2 November to 11 November in the presence of the Group of the Progressive Party on the Birth Allowance of the representative Bård Hoksrud from 7 November to 11 November in the period from 7 November to 11 November in the period from 7 November to 11 November in the case of a residence permit for the representative Bård Hoksrud; On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: for the county of Hordaland: Eli Årdal Berland for the county of Rogaland: Siri A. Meling for the state of Telemark: Magnhild Holmberg3. Siri A. Meling and Magnhild Holmberg are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Finn Martin Vallersnes and Bård Hoksrud respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-02.ana.ud1450e158	Eli Årdal Berland and Siri A. Meling are present and will take their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-02.ana.ud1450e177	No one has asked for the floor. We're going straight to voting because we're full numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-11-02.ana.ud1450e5206	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
