ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e29	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e50	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply will be given to members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e59	Getting Norwegian citizenship is in some parts of the world perceived as winning the lottery. Norway is a legal society. Norwegian civil courts are extensive. The welfare society provides security networks and social security rights. One has a right to live in the world's best country. Although the debates over the last three weeks of this process will be marked by demands for reforms and additions in all directions, as usual, I believe that the Storting must continue to be Norwegian giving a good condition in the world. Then it is reasonable that one requires something from a person who is seeking to share in this good. The citizenship law that we are adopting today is relatively strict. He requires seven years of butid. In practice, one should not be punished, and one should have clarified its identity. One shall be at least 12 years old, be resident in Norway, in practice most Norwegian, and one requires loyalty and identity to be so Norwegian that another citizenship should be removed when seeking Norwegian. When it comes to the latter, one is not in line with some other countries, which are increasingly accepting dual citizenship, but it is such a choice the Norwegian population is making today. The law adopted is based on avoiding, as far as possible, double citizenship. I'm glad there's a wide multiple, all of them unrecognized SV, that stands for such a line. There are, of course, arguments for dual citizenship. We no longer live in the same country, in the same country, life out. Having two citizenships, two countries — or perhaps more for that matter — with which one identifies itself is no longer uncommon. The request to keep this connection is made understandable. We are aware that it is likely that some immigrants who today choose not to become entirely Norwegian would have chosen otherwise if they could retain their original citizenship. But in a globalised world, where a person moves around the world to achieve work, economic security or security for life and health, it's important that a strong bond where a person creates a new life. Citizenship is the strongest and most complete form of association with Norway as a state. The Committee therefore clearly believes that seeking a Norwegian citizenship, with the rights and obligations it entails, must remove other citizenship. Automatic citizenship by birth and adoption before the age of 18 will sometimes lead to double citizenship, which the Committee would think would be the best for the child in these cases. The toughest point in the law is the proposal to withdraw granted citizenship upon application as a result of a lack of solution from original citizenship, but there is a logical consequence based on the desire for only one citizenship. Children of Norwegian mother or father become Norwegian citizen at birth. The changes at this point are minimal and the idea is that children will automatically become Norwegian citizens by Norwegian father, regardless of their parents' civil status, and not after notification, as today. Norwegian citizenship legislation is based on the principle of descent, contrary to the territorial principle. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the 1997 Council of Europe Convention also recommends this principle of descent. The Committee would like there to be a certain ceremony by having citizenship. The party disagrees on whether the ceremony should be mandatory and whether a threat promise should be part of the ceremony. The majority believe that such a ceremony should be voluntary, but that loyalty vows are a central element of the ceremony. I personally believe that those who have declared their old citizenship in favour of Norwegian citizenship will have enjoyed getting this over with in a solemn ceremony. A loyalty vow similar to that from Australia will also be a pleasure to give. It means, in fact, that a affirmer of loyalty, faith in freedom and democracy and respect for the law. Otherwise, it would just be missing! On the trip of the Municipal Committee in Pakistan, I met a group of international relief workers on the Afghanistan border. We talked about the situation, and a Swedish took up his passport and said that he had thanked God many times for his Swedish passport. Then the American, the Canadian and the Danish took up their passports and confirmed it. Having a passport and thus civil rights in a Western legal society is gold worth. Everyone who doesn't. We are adopting a restrictive but reasonably understandable civil law here. I recommend setting this option, except for some minor errors that should have infiltrated SV's comments. I'm counting on SV to sort it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e91	The amount of the allowance shall today adopt a new law on citizenship. The current law is from 1950, and it's high time with a new law. There are three issues in the proposition that are significant, and that I will take to heart: the principle of one or two citizenships compulsory or voluntary ceremony ceremony ceremony, i.e. the issue of a vow of allegiance; The applicable law is based on the principle of one citizenship. However, a majority of the Citizenship Committee agreed to base the principle of dual citizenship on proposals for new law, while the minority considered that one citizenship was the right one. The government is in favour of one, and so does a majority of the committee, including the Workers' Party. The main reason for this is that citizenship is an important symbol of belonging and loyalty to the Norwegian political community, and that for that reason individuals should have only political duties and rights in one country. We also believe that the relationship with Norway can be weakened by dual citizenship. Furthermore, we believe that if someone can have dual citizenship, the principle of equality by giving the majority in Norway only one nationality will be broken. It may be unfortunate. If you are to acquire Norwegian citizenship, you must state your original citizenship. It can help to make the acquisition of Norwegian citizenship a better thoughtful act. Such awareness can and should promote integration. However, the conclusion on one citizenship is not entirely simple. Increased internationalisation combined with an increasing number of cross-border marriages, and thus also children of parents with different citizenships, can also advocate more liberal practices. Several countries practice dual citizenship today. But dual citizenship also involves a number of complications. Link with the country may be weakened, there may be diplomatic problems, and consular assistance may be problematic. It may be uncertain who is responsible, and it may prevent the follow-up of forced marriage/home and criminal prosecution. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that there are more arguments for applying for one citizenship than for allowing two, as SV will. The Labour Party agrees that we should have a ceremony, a solemn act that should be marked for all, but believes that it should be as positive as possible and thus voluntary. But the Workers' Party will oppose the introduction of a vow of allegiance in connection with the voluntary ceremony. We believe that more people will meet if a vow of allegiance is not required, and it is difficult to fully understand what one will achieve with such a promise. Achieving new citizenship shall be a process culminating in a related solemn ceremony in which a sense of inclusion and that the new citizen wishes to contribute to a community that ensures diversity and inclusion in Norwegian society. Then the majority has to add up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e125	I do feel that very many people agree with these matters, at least I can sign on virtually everything that the previous two speakers have said, with one exception in relation to Signe Eye. That is why I am going to shorten my post and only talk about the voluntary ceremony and vows scheme for the citizens who have been granted Norwegian citizenship. That's just where we have a little bit of different meaning. The ceremony shall contribute to highlighting the importance of becoming a Norwegian national, with the rights and obligations of citizenship. It's a solemn act to get citizenship. To underline this and to create a nice frame and a little party around the event, it is desirable to participate as much as possible. The county therefore has to organise the ceremony once or twice a year. During the ceremony, those taking part will be asked to make a vow of allegiance or loyalty in which they declare that they will respect Norway’s democratic governance system and respect Norway’s laws. It is important to note – we in the Right are for freedom of choice at all levels – that this ceremony is not made compulsory. This shall not be a resource-intensive and bureaucratic arrangement, but an inclusive marking. I think I'm taking such a short article – I feel like most things have been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e136	I would also like to stress what has been said in previous articles, that there is a need for a new law. The current law, on Norwegian citizens' rights, is, as has also been said before, from 1950, and is ready for realignment, to say it that way. It's actually one year older than the United Nations Convention on Refugees. When you look at the progress and the result, one can of course also say from the point of view of the Progress Party that you agree with a lot, because there are some steps in the right direction. But it might also be expected, when one knows that the Citizens' Law Committee was appointed on 12 February 1999, and the sample presented its investigation in December 2000. So now we're in May 2005, and then you might think that someone had taken some major steps and got an up-to-date law that was adapted in 2005. As I said, there are some small steps here. I'm just going to make a brief reference to what we think is the most positive here, namely that there are now greater demands to clarify identity, before a person distributes Norwegian citizenship. We are very pleased with that. But then I wonder why the majority of the committee's objective is to make the most of the immigrants who live in Norway into Norwegian citizens. I have not recorded why it should be a goal that everyone should have Norwegian citizenship. It must in some ways be a little voluntary, at least considering that one does not impose greater requirements on those who had to be ‘forced’ to become Norwegian citizens. On the one hand, one wants to become Norwegian citizens as much as possible, but one makes very little demands on this – for example. set up against the ceremony, which shall be voluntary. I kind of don't make it stick together. We believe that greater demands need to be made, and that is linked to integration policy, which we all agree on has been very little successful. Then we had a golden opportunity to use citizenship as a carrot and make some demands both in relation to Norwegian education and other factors that go into integration. We have 300 hours of Norwegian education, but it doesn't say how well Norwegian you speak when you get citizenship. It is easy to slumber through 300 hours of Norwegian education, without having to show whether or not to control the language. So here we would have expected a larger claim. We also still think that the majority is a bit too liberal in relation to living time. We sincerely believe that citizenship is such a symbol and is so valuable that there should be greater demands on living and on the road also be greater need for tests that show that one is qualified both to stay in Norway and not least to achieve citizenship. We think it would have been a carrot that had been involved and strengthened the integration work as well. Still, it will be an opening for criminals to have Norwegian citizenship, which we are quite clear that we do not accept. If I am to take another area with which the Progress Party is satisfied, that is what has been mentioned by others, namely that of dual citizenship. We are very pleased here. We have made proposals on this in the past, and I have not understood that there should be strong arguments for double citizenship. To date, I have not found a single argument that is solid in defending double citizenship. So we're very pleased with this. Finally, I would just like to make the proposal that the Progress Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e155	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e158	The Citizenship Act is much more important to people than the attention the case has created in Norwegian media. Let me start by taking what I think is good with the law. It is that foreign youths who have grown up here in the country will be able to have citizenship when they reach the age of 12. It is that all children of Norwegian parents become Norwegian, whether their mother or father is Norwegian. And then it's that the law becomes more transparent. To the curious, this ceremony: I think it's good with a ceremony, and I think it's okay that it's voluntary, especially when the Government of Death and Life is going to have a declaration of allegiance, which the majority of the population removed last time we had this up. Now, as a result of the treatment here, everyone has to swear allegiance to Norway, but not if they don't, and it doesn't matter anyway, because then they can drop the entire ceremony. It makes the ceremony a bit of a curious thing. But to what is bad: Why will Erna Solberg take from Johann Olav Koss his Norwegian passport and citizenship? We met him in Toronto, where he told us that he would prefer to be Canadian, because it would be an advantage to him who lives and works in Canada. He was headstrong of the new law. Why does the Government want the Nordics studying abroad to work abroad, to marry abroad, to have children abroad and to have the same citizenship as their spouse and children, not to be Norwegian? With the new Citizenship Act, we are moving directly against developments in the world, in Europe and in the Nordic countries. While we are doing the illegal activity of applying for dual citizenship, in recent years Finland, Iceland and Sweden have agreed that it should not only be tolerated but be legal with double citizenship. The Government refers to the 1963 Convention, which states that the principle of one citizenship shall apply. However, developments are now reflected in the 1997 recent Europe Convention, which is neutral as to whether countries allow only one or two citizenships. In addition, to our immigrants, we say that the goal is for them to learn Norwegian and become Norwegian citizens. Everyone, except the Progress Party, is in agreement on this. What we're not saying is that then they have to cut the tape to their homeland and become just Norwegian. The result is that immigrants do not become Norwegian. Figures from 2003 attached show that, by far, the few who have lived here are applying for citizenship. Among the people who come from large non-European countries, it is less than 40 pst. seeking citizenship. Among the 3,445 Pakistani who had lived in Norway for more than seven years in 2003, it's only 497, or 14.43 pst, who's acquired citizenship, among the Chileans only 138 out of 1,636, i.e. about 8 pst. And of the 47 000 citizens of the European Union, 873 disappearing who have received citizenship, under 2 pst. The same low percentage applies to the Americans. I think this is a problem, and the majority should also think about it when they say that people who live in Norway for a long time should become Norwegian citizens. For these people could be Norwegian citizens, but today they have been deprived of democratic influence, the possibility of taking certain positions in public and security for help if they come up to a disadvantage abroad. Nor do they get their Norwegian citizenship. This applies to children growing up in Norway, who are actually Norwegian. In addition, I believe that if we had implemented the change that we are proposing, more would feel belonging to Norway, felt responsibility to contribute to shaping development, and several of the children who grew up in our country would be Norwegian. Objections to the obligation of protection have been dealt with in Conventions. In my opinion, the objections to the possibility of helping Norwegian citizens who also have a foreign passport are temporary. Yes, it's harder for us to approach a Norwegian irracker in Iraq, but it's impossible for us to interfere if the law makes people actually choose not to become Norwegian citizens at all. In particular, it is important to point out that children do not have Norwegian citizenship because their parents choose not to become Norwegian. About the requirement for living time: there is no fasitant response as to how far we should choose the requirement for living time. For SV, this is simply in the following simple analysis: in a more global world, where immigrants come to Norway and live here, what is more sensible to create a multicultural society? [[The President clubs.]] Then our answer – I'm just going to end the sentence, President – is that it's easier to earn full rights for citizens, that it's happening faster than today, and then we think five years is a good proposal. I take up the suggestions from SV and the SV and the Senterpartiet. Proposals Nos. 1 and 4, which is enriched, is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e193	The representative Heikki Holmås has drawn up the proposals he referred to. The President would like to remind you that the regulatory time for the evening meeting has passed. The President will propose that the meeting continue until today's map has been completed. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e198	The Central Party believes a citizenship is an important symbol of belonging and loyalty to a political community. We think the individual should only have duties and courts in one country. Right to vote, duty to protect, prosecution – many reasons speak for it. Ot. pp. No 41 is a follow-up to a separate public release, NOW 2000:32. The central party is satisfied that the government follows up the minority in the NOU. The other Nordic countries originally had the same hold. We're surprised that at this point we no longer have a common view in the North. The government has carried out regular cleanups and clarifications that the Central Party essentially agrees with. We are in favour of the principle of descent, that Norwegian citizenship is automatically transferred to children if their mother or father is Norwegian, born in or outside marriage, and in or outside Norway. We are also pleased with what is clarified when it concerns adopted and children of stateless people. We want the demands made on the application for citizenship to come under the laws themselves, and we are pleased that a broad majority believe that identity requirements should not prevent refugees from obtaining Norwegian citizenship. We also think it is right that foreign youth who grew up in Norway can have Norwegian citizenship when they are 12 years old. The centre party wants the most people living in Norway to participate in the duties and rights it entails. The seven-year bid within a 10-year period is long. We have checked the practice in other countries. He's very variable. Sweden has five years, and Canada has three years. Other countries have even longer buttocks. The centre party and SV propose requirements for five-year butid within the last ten years. Norway is a small and vulnerable language community. The Centre Party is pleased that the Committee also agrees on requirements for Norwegian and social knowledge. So to the question of a ceremony. The Central Party supports the proposal for a solemn act, a ceremony of its own, by granting citizenship, but then as a voluntary arrangement and without a threat promise. Then I will underline a section relative to the butid that has the heading ‘Special Groups’. This option allows exceptions to the specified requirements. A private circular is responsible for the care of both Kola-Northmen, adoptive children and foreign servants. In recent times, there are several examples that make it necessary to deepen this very thing. So it's international professions, artists and artists, based in Norway, that should also be subject to the same care. We are very pleased that the Committee agrees with this, and that the Committee also says that the possibility of granting exemptions should be used only for the benefit of the Committee, not for the purpose of imposing stricter or additional conditions. Then it is that the country currently has a government that is particularly happy with fees and possessions. The centre party is for a secret that gives access to the fee when it concerns citizenship, but we believe that the level of the fee should be based on self-cost, and we suggest it in conjunction with SV. Finally, I would like to say that it is an important law that is signed today. From SV there is an argument for double citizenship. In relation to globalisation and international trends, it is very good to argue for it. But for the Central Party, then, it's important to underline, finally, the attachment and loyalty that we think the individual should have to have to share in one political community.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e227	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e240	Then Odelstinget will vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e248	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, no. 4, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1 and 4 are distributed in the hall in a rich edition. The President will draw the attention of Odelstinget to the following: by simplifying the voting system, which is in agreement with the proposers, voting on this matter will be reduced by more than 30 votes. The proposal now proposed by the President will be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e282	The President will first vote on a comprehensive proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of Section 17 shall be replaced by the following: Children under 18 years of age who acquire or have acquired Norwegian citizenship under the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon application, be entitled to Norwegian citizenship if they fulfil the conditions set out in points (a), (c) and (g) of the first paragraph of Section 7 and there are no circumstances referred to in the second paragraph of Section 7. Paragraph 22 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: Children under the age of 18 of the person who acquires citizenship under the provisions of Section 20 or 21 automatically acquire Norwegian citizenship by the acquisition of their parents, if the child is resident in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e298	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 4, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:Children shall become a Norwegian national at birth if their father or mother is a Norwegian national and resides in Norway. For children born abroad by parents, where one or both are Norwegian nationals, Norwegian citizenship must be applied for. In examining applications, particular attention must be paid to the child’s relationship with Norway. It must be applied before the child reaches the age of five. The conditions of Section 7 shall not apply to applications under the first paragraph of Section 4. § 7 shall be replaced by the following:Every person shall, upon application, be entitled to Norwegian citizenship if the applicant at the time of the decision: (a) has demonstrated or otherwise clarified their identity, as set out in: the third subparagraph,(b) has completed eighteen years,(c) are and will remain resident in the Kingdom,(d) fills the terms of the residence permit in Section 12(e) of the Foreign Affairs Act with a total of 10 years of residence in the State, calculated from the time when the first authorisation for permanent residence was granted. In principle, the residence period shall be consistent. Absence from the State for more than six months is not regarded as a residence period,f) fulfils the requirement for Norwegian training and Norwegian knowledge under §8.g) is not punishable or criminal-law specific reaction,h) fulfils the requirement for settlement from other citizenship provided for in §10. The applicant must demonstrate that he/she has not received social assistance in the last five years, from the date of the application for citizenship. Paragraph 7 of the new third paragraph is replaced by the following:Norwegian citizenship is awarded by ceremony, where a declaration of allegiance to the kingdom is to be made. The third and fourth subparagraphs shall become the fourth and fifth paragraphs.§ 8 shall be replaced by the following:For applications submitted after 1 September 2008, it is required that applicants have completed 300 hours of approved Norwegian training and have passed the Norwegian examination. The Norwegian training requirement is waived if the applicant can demonstrate sufficient knowledge in Norwegian or Sami. The king may lay down detailed rules on the requirement to complete Norwegian training and examination in Norwegian, including exceptions to those with Norwegian or Sami. The king may lay down detailed rules on the requirement to complete Norwegian training and examination in Norwegian, including exceptions for those with sufficient knowledge of Norwegian or Sami.’;» The coastal party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e360	There is a vote on the amended proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 7 shall be replaced by the following: (c) residing in the Kingdom, point (e) of the first paragraph of paragraph 7 shall be replaced by the following: the fourth subparagraph, the second sentence of Section 11 shall be replaced by the following: the applicant must, however, have three years of residence in the Kingdom during the last five years, with residence or work permits of at least one year. Paragraph 12 of the fourth sentence is replaced by the following: The period of residence in the State and the period of marriage to a Norwegian national with a common residence must also be at least five years in total. Paragraph 20, first sentence, is replaced by the following: Danish, Finnish, Icelandic and Swedish nationals are entitled to become Norwegian nationals if they have reached the age of 18, have been resident in the State for the last five years and at this time are not sentenced to imprisonment or special reaction as a result of criminal offences.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e764	The President will first vote on the paragraphs or parts of them in which the Socialist Left wants to vote against. The President shall refer to the paragraphs to which this applies: § 7, first paragraph, point (h) 10§ 20, second sentence, § 23§ 26, first paragraph
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e795	It is then voted over the paragraphs which the Progress Party wants to vote against. The President shall refer to the relevant paragraphs: §4§11§12§16
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e822	It is then voted over chapters and remaining paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e832	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e842	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-31-lower.ana.ud1147e852	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
