ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e41	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Heidi Grande Røys. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e51	The representative, Øystein Hedstrom, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e54	On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on the law amending the Law of 5 March 2004 No. 12 on competition between undertakings and control of concentrations, the Competition Act, with a new provision on control and disclosure obligations for key players in the food market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e59	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e84	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e91	The government here promotes proposals for changes to the law on free legal aid. The main purpose of the amendments is to make the law more transparent and user-friendly by specifying more precisely the conditions for free legal assistance. A number of changes are also proposed which will result in a less resource-intensive and faster processing of legal aid applications. We're all very satisfied with that. On the other hand, the Government does not propose any extension of the scope of the Legal Aid Act. The starting point of the Labour Party is that a good provision of justice should be a tool in the fight against poverty. It is that part of the population with the greatest need for social benefits is at least aware of their rights. It is clearly documented in these days by the new street lawyer of the Church's City Mission. Those who are the lowest in the ranks of our society don't know what rights they have, nor do they get help to figure it out. We only have to recognise that the government's obligation to provide public services does not work well enough towards this group. We know that the unmet legal needs of the population are largely linked to legislation to ensure the cohesion of the differences in society. People don't get the help they need and demand, because they don't know their rights. As stated above, the Government does not propose any extension of the scope of the law. However, it is legally binding in some areas where it has developed a firm liberal practice, such as: assistance to cohabitants in the event of a break-in of life, in child-restraint cases during the time before the case is brought to a full court, and in international child-removal cases. This shall be supported by the Committee. The Labour Party is also pleased that a Joint Committee supports the proposal that young people who are displaced from forced marriage be entitled to free legal aid. In the summer of 2004, the Stortinget adopted a proposal to give young people the right to an aid lawyer to be compulsorily married. But unfortunately this is not enough. The majority of cases are brought before the courts, but this group still needs legal assistance. Young people who are displaced from forced marriages are in great need of both practical assistance and legal assistance. This concerns aid for both migration to new parts of the country, name-change, address-blocking and violence alarm. I would like to make it clear that the proposal for a new regulation which is now being promoted in the Committee on Legal Affairs will capture such assistance as mentioned here. The Labour Party and SV believe that the Legal Aid Act still excludes important areas of great welfare importance for the poorest in our society. This applies, inter alia, to: indebtedness, family reunification – reunification of men or children – free counsel and social, social and tax legislation; The Working Party and SV consider that there is a need for a review of the entire legal aid scheme in order to improve it. We are therefore asking the Government to put forward a case of free legal assistance aimed at extending the scope of the case and embracing a larger proportion of the population. In the context of the previous revision of the Law on Legal Aid, the majority of respondents asked whether the income limit should be higher than the ordinary one in order to receive free legal aid in child distribution cases. The background is that unfairness often arises where only one party is granted free legal aid. The costs of these cases may often become significant and result in the party not receiving legal aid not taking the risk a process is and surrendering to the counterparty’s requirements. The Government does not follow up this proposal. A majority, the Labour Party, SV and the Advance Party therefore propose to amend the Regulation, so that when a party is admitted to free action in a child-sharing case, the other party shall also be free to proceedings if his income does not exceed the income limit for free legal aid of NOK 100000. The Workers' Party is concerned about the high hourly rates of legal fees. We therefore ask the Government to seek out a system of maximum hourly rates for lawyers' salaries and, if necessary, to extend the single price scheme for some cases where the need for legal assistance is great and how common consumers are to a large extent the customer base. It concerns consumer matters, claims, child distribution matters and issues related to home and home. I'm glad that we're now getting a majority for more extensions to the Law on Legal Aid. However, it is a paradox to stand here and be satisfied that we have extended the scheme, when I know at the same time what participation the scheme had before Christmas, when the Government and the Advance Party reintroduced ownership of free legal aid. Free legal aid is no longer free of charge, and it goes hardest beyond those who have the least, and who know their rights the worst. This is a paradox, and I hope one here can get a change pretty soon. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposals from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e124	The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e127	This case is about a simpler law on free legal assistance for those who need such legal assistance in a difficult situation. Since its accession, the Co-operation Board has aimed at modernising and simplifying laws and regulations in order to make it easier for the individual user. This is also the purpose of the amendments to the law on free legal aid, namely to make the law more accessible to people, to increase predictability and, not least, to simplify the procedure, then to give more transparent legislation, more precise and comprehensive indication of the conditions that must be met in order to be able to obtain free legal aid — and less need for discretionary decisions. This will make the processing of applications easier, and thus people will also be able to get a faster process. A unanimous committee agrees to simplify the legislation. In addition, the Committee is in favour of extending the coverage beyond that proposed by the Ministry in the proposal. Victims of forced marriage are today entitled to an auxiliary lawyer when they report such a situation. However, it may be difficult to report parents or close relatives. Those exposed to a threat of forced marriage will usually need both practical and legal assistance even before they choose to make a notification. Victims are often young girls in a very vulnerable and difficult situation, and the Committee feels that they need special help in finding out about a public service. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party ask the Government to consider introducing the maximum price for attorneys' hourly fees in selected cases. Let there be no doubt about Right View: there is a lot of evidence that the market is not functioning properly in this area. The problem is often that clients do not know what they need, or what they ultimately pay for. In this part of the market, any lawyer can increase the income by drawing cases into the knowledge and the broad, without the ability of clients to control them. The solution of the working party is as usual to propose new regulations. Their basic position is that if that's something we don't like, we just adopt a regulation or a new law, then the problem is solved. The government is running a work that will lower the threshold for entering the legal aid market. In our view, this is a much better solution, which will help lower the prices of such services, among other things. by providing legal remedies with greater access to legal assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e140	Sometimes the debate in the main hall is more interesting than other times. This is a theme that at least I find interesting, given that it's about a safety valve so that people with a weak economy will have access to their own legal certainty. So it's probably one of the bearing elements of an open and functioning democracy, which we like to present our country as. Therefore, it is also important to focus on these kinds of issues. I feel that both the Committee and the Storting have done so. Although there is, of course, a political distinction in what you think is most important, at least I am pleased that you focus a lot on the issues that are being addressed in these kinds of cases. After listening to the case rapporteur, you might think that it was very bad – but it does not. Most of the things in the setting, we actually agree, although according to the minority, there are some significant points where it should look completely different. But I expect more people to touch along the way. When I see what's here, I feel that we've covered up pretty well in relation to what we want. So it should be a cross of thought, or a point: what do we really want? Should everyone have come under the scheme, or is this not just going to be a scheme for those who need it the most? Then it will be the political debate that will clarify the level of the threshold. That is where the policy must lie. None of us want this to be a unilateral state responsibility, because in that case, I believe that the challenges we already face in relation to the courts in relation to the queue and quantity of goods would have been unwieldy and incomprehensible for a long, long time to come. So we don't want to. Then we have to go inward that we have to go up some boundaries, and then we have to take some political considerations. Then we get to stand for what we think is right, with the consequences it has for those who are affected by it, for good and for bad. There's really a policy in a nutshell, at my discretion. Furthermore, there has been a debate on whether the scheme proposed here is good enough. There, with slightly different approaches, the Committee pointed out to the Government that the Finnish model should be looked at. The majority have said something in the form of a comment, and the minority have also been very clear about wanting to put on the Finnish model, which takes a broader approach to how to calculate prowess. Well, if the purpose of a joint committee is to do that, it's probably that we see that it can get even better. It's a respect we have to have for each other – it can and should be better, but we may have to listen to more recordings to find the solution that we ultimately support. So it's in the cards here that this wants an overall committee to do – with slightly different approaches. Another element on which the rapporteur was concerned was the question of the distribution of children. Some of the most difficult in relation to legal proceedings relates to the parental right. It is clear that it has probably been unreasonable for some, who have felt that the other party has still been able to appeal through free legal aid. It's quite unreasonable, because then it becomes so that the children become a means of a power struggle between the adults. They should not be. So I'm at least happy that we now want to do something about it, and that we raise the income limit for one, so that you get a certain level of equity from what is the starting point, namely legal certainty for both parties. It's at least I'm very happy that we get to. The rapporteur was also concerned with legal services and the price of them. Yes, it's timely to point that out, too, even though some of us may be a little skeptical of the approach that's here. I dare remind the case rapporteur that the Advance Party has made proposals to remove VAT on legal services in this context, but it rejected, among other things. The working party with brawl and brawl that is not interesting at the time. It's probably the policy of this coming out, given that we have a different approach to things. It's also interesting to hear what you're saying when you're talking about excesses. The Labour Party was a budgetary partner in 2004, and at least I didn't see anything essential being done to deal with the excesses when they were negotiated. Of course, it is possible that I am wrong, but in that case the case rapporteur, who is also the head of the Workers' Party's judicial fraction, will correct me. So you had opportunities when you negotiated with the Government, but obviously that wasn't important enough at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e157	It is with a little mixed feeling both the representatives of the Workers' Party, I think, and SV is on this pulpit today, because on the one hand, there are some changes in the law on legal aid in a positive direction, especially in the case of people who are in a coercive situation, and in some other fields, and on the other hand, our parties have a healthy view of reintroduction of the propensities. SV's goal is equality for the law. Today the situation is that those who have a lot of money also have good access to the legal system, while those who have little, often cannot afford to try their case. During the period that has just passed, SV has agreed to force the Government to raise the income limit in order to receive free legal aid to NOK 230000. I am proud that we helped to force the removal of the excesses of free legal aid, even though these were unfortunately reintroduced into a petty settlement between the government parties and the Progress Party. From the point of view of the SV, we will focus on putting the entire free legal aid system around the Finnish system, in line with the recommendations of, among other things. Juss-Buss. The Finnish order covers about 75 pst. by households, and there are no restrictions in relation to the area of coverage. Here, with the exception of those with the lowest income, the recipient pays an excess proportional to net income. Despite net calculations, the process is not particularly time consuming or bureaucratic. We record that the majority will carefully say that this system should be assessed, without voting in favour of the SV's and the Workers' Party's proposals, but we hope that it means more than that in practice. They also do not want the Government to present a separate case of free legal aid in 2005 with a view to expanding the area of coverage and embracing a larger proportion of the population. It can only mean that the majority believe that the government's analysis in the 2005 budget should have no impact on practical policy. In the budget setting, it said: ‘More research projects show that there is an unmet need for legal assistance in the population.’...‘Specially worrying is the fact that the unmet legal needs increase as social and economic resources decline. It's a challenge to control resources against those who need it the most. The need is greatest for those with the lowest income.» SV took the consequence of the government's own analysis in the autumn when we voted against the proposal to reinstate the excess. So in addition, we're going to go in to put the whole system in a more social direction. We are pleased that an entire committee is in favour of giving free legal aid and free action to persons who are in a forced situation. This is a terriblely important change for those concerned. The representatives Heikki Holmås and Karin Andersen from SV have thus gained an impact on the intention in Document No. 8:29, as the whole committee now agrees to this in the vote. We are also pleased that SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, ensures that the Government now has to amend the regulation on free legal aid so that when a party is admitted to free legal proceedings in a child-sharing case, the other party will also have free legal proceedings, provided that his income does not exceed the income limit for free legal assistance of $100,000. We also wanted us to have a majority in order for the government to assess a maximum hourly fee for lawyers in selected cases, such as: child-sharing issues, housing and property issues, consumer issues, damages cases and issues related to social rights — so get an assessment of this, not unilaterally saying that’s what we want to go for. We also know that there are other possible ways up to the goal of bringing down these fees, but we have to discuss that further in the future. I'm sure we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e175	Let me begin by being allowed to express some wonder and amazement at the language of the representative Thorkildsen, because by having conversations and creating a majority, you probably don't force anything on anyone. Isn't that the usual political method of negotiation? Every government knows that if it gets a majority against it, you're not forced to do anything, but you act on what the Stortinge says, and then it can be more or less wise in the majority decisions that are made. But it's a completely different matter we're debating. We have a cross-political agreement on the objective of the provision of legal aid. Firstly, there shall be no loss of justice due to poor financial ability or lack of information about their rights. Secondly, the provision of legal aid should be a good tool in the fight against poverty. In Ot.prp. No 91 for 2003-2004 is the main objective of making the law on free legal assistance more transparent and user-friendly, while at the same time reducing the use of resources and speeding up the processing of applications for legal assistance. It's not in Ot.prp. No 91 some extension of the scope of the Legal Aid Act. The reason for this is that the income limits for free legal aid have increased significantly in recent years. Now more than half of the country's population falls below the income limits for free legal aid. In terms of purpose, the Christian People's Party believes that it must undoubtedly be right to characterise free legal aid as a social support scheme. It is the intention of the scheme to justify it, not the extent of how many have the opportunity to obtain this assistance. When I said there are no new coverage areas for the law in Ot.prp. No 91, I must add that the Christian People's Party also supports the Committee's proposal with a background to the change that the Stortinget made in Section 107a of the Criminal Procedures Act a good six months ago. It is right to incorporate the consequences of that amendment into the Legal Aid Act, as proposed by the Committee. The Christian People's Party is united with the Right in a minority on the issue of whether a very liberal practice is to be practised to dispensate from the income limit in relation to child distribution issues. We are not opposed to a level playing field in legal aid, but we believe that the effects of the new rules on the treatment of child distribution cases and the new income limits should be awaited before the possible increase in income limits is adopted in such cases. On the abstinence of free legal aid: we debated this in December, and I see no reason to repeat our argument after such a short period of time. I can assure you that we believe the same thing today, also in relation to the assessment of the implementation of the principles in the Finnish model. When it comes to the question of whether people are going to buy a bad job and arm on the necessary legal assistance, we ask the Department to consider current issues in the follow-up of the Committee on Disputes and the suspension of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e196	The Central Party supports a number of the comments made by the Committee in the present position and considers that the vote will contribute to a law on free legal aid that provides for clear improvements. With regard to some of the issues discussed here today, the purpose and scope of the case, and also the question of maximum prices, the Central Party supports the proposal of the minority that it is not necessary here to point out that this is a social aid scheme. In any case, it is clear from the purpose paragraph that this is a law aimed at ensuring legal assistance for people who do not have financial conditions for seafaring to care for the need for legal assistance. Taking in the word ‘social’ should therefore in essence be quite unnecessary. But it is also a point in itself that by removing the word ‘social’, the purpose paragraph expands a bit. The central party also shares the opinion of the minority in its proposal No. 2 to present a case relating to the issue of extending the scope of the case. We see it as important that an assessor assesses whether social security matters should be able to get under the scheme, and also whether a person could embrace a larger part of the population. When it comes to the question of the maximum price of the attorney's hourly fees, it's a rather difficult question. There is no doubt that one today sees cases of hourly fees that are outside it as having to characterize as reasonable salaries, in a number of cases. If introducing the maximum price alone is going to solve that problem, the centre party is uncertain about. However, we have chosen to support proposal No. 3, because the proposal suggests that the Government should carry out an evaluation of those issues. We believe that such an assessment should just go through arguments for and against a possible maximum price, and that it would therefore be natural for the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate form with it. On the basis of those assumptions, the Centre Party chooses to support proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox But we think it's important that one not in advance draws a conclusion out of the assessment one actually asks the Government to come. With regard to the issue of child sharing, we support the majority proposal that both parties be granted the right to free legal aid when granted to one party, provided that both are below the financial limit for free legal aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e209	There is a broad political consensus that no one should suffer legal loss because of lack of financial capacity. The aim of the Law on Free Legal Assistance is to be a social support scheme to ensure the necessary legal assistance to persons who do not have financial preconditions for the exercise of their legal interests in matters of great personal and welfare importance. Important objectives of the amendments have been to design the law so as to specify more precisely the conditions for free legal assistance, and to make legal aid applications less resource-intensive and thus faster. I have taken note of the proposals on legal aid for persons who are subject to forced marriage, or attempted forced marriage, and I believe that this could be a useful and important complement to the already existing auxiliaries. I would like to assess whether it is possible to bring these changes into effect from an earlier date than the rest of the law. I have also noticed that Stortinget wants the unit price in these cases to be increased to 12 hours. Most legal conflicts are resolved outside the courts. The earlier the conflict is resolved, the less the economic and interpersonal burden becomes on the parties. A subdued level of conflict between the parties is particularly important where the parties have to deal with each other in the future. We have to guard against the fact that the free legal aid system contributes to channeling cases before the courts, with the financial and personal burden involved, rather than the case finding its solution at an earlier stage. We have very good experience with the public offer of free mediation through family protection offices, conflict councils, etc. I have also noticed the desire of the majority of the population for a regulatory change in the income limit of the party who does not otherwise have the freedom of action in a child distribution case. The government will make matters as best possible to make it easier for people to resolve conflicts themselves. Developing good and reasonable ways of resolving conflicts is an important challenge. The Ministry’s work on the Committee on Disputes, the Legal Affairs Committee’s opinion, and the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Court of Justice, are important in this context. I would also like to mention that the Ministry has carried out an evaluation of the current price system. This contains an assessment of whether current unit rates are correct and whether there may be grounds for introducing unit-price payments in several types of cases. The report shall be sent for consultation in those days, with a maximum period of three months. With regard to the issue of the maximum price, which has been promoted today, but also earlier in the public debate, I must admit that it is an approach to resolving the situation in the legal aid market in which I have very little faith. I am also pleased that there is no majority in the Storting that believes that it is a right way to go. The government also aims to develop further the provision of guidance and legal assistance at the public service offices. The evaluation of the sample scheme shows that the assistance provided here has been able to capture the target audience, both in terms of income and the most requested areas of action. It is desirable that this offer be gradually developed and made available in all the municipalities of the country. I would also like to highlight the legal assistance provided by the various student rights support measures. This is free and good help to many people who would not have visited a lawyer otherwise, while giving students valuable experience. The Ministry of Justice will also carry out a more comprehensive review of citizens’ opportunities to pursue their own legal interests. One measure in this context will be to assess a graduated legal aid scheme using a model from Finland and Sweden. This is otherwise in line with the views expressed in the majority vote in the budget for the current year. I commented on this in a positive way that time, and I confirm it, of course, again today. Such an arrangement as I have referred to here, from other countries, gives more rights to subsidised legal assistance, while overall legal assistance is made more reasonable by the fact that the legal salary is calculated on the basis of a public salary, and by the fact that the public covers part of the expenses. I will come back to Stortinget with such a review during the year. As far as legal aid is concerned, there is reason to give some additional consideration, and I shall make it brief: the good intention to ensure that those who rely on legal assistance get it in a good way does not have to be developed in such a way that resolving legal disputes becomes better than to resolve them in another way. In any situation where a legal solution can be avoided, it would be preferable. I have previously shown in my article the arrangements we have in our Norwegian community in this area. That's the arrangements we're supposed to be happy for. However, if they do not reach out, the Government's aim is also to ensure that legal aid schemes are good and that they should be such as not to suffer legal losses because of a lack of financial capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e236	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e239	It is possible that the memory is not always as good as it should have been, but it was part of the post from the representative Thorkildsen that made me take the word to try to clarify something. If I did not hear the error, the representative now said that SV has received a copy of his proposal for free legal aid in the case of forced marriage. It is possible that I remember incorrectly, but I believe that the committee has already given a clear signal about this. In that case, it is actually SV that comes after Stortinget, and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e246	I felt the need to take the floor after Mr Ellingsen's first post, where he presented it as if the case-rapporteur was running some sort of black paint on today's legal aid system. It's good that we have a legal system, and in many areas it's very good. However, the Labour Party still believes that there are major gaps in the legal aid system, and that there is also evidence in the legal aid investigations that have been in the past few years, and also through the job that the street lawyer of the Church's Bymission is doing. The studies show that those who are the lowest on the ranking path do not know their rights or are not helped to identify in the jungle of rights that they have in a welfare country. We have to find arrangements, either through the Law of Justice or in other ways, which means that those who are the lowest on the rank ladder get the help they need. It could be by giving a free hour legal aid to the nation's population. It may be through legal assistance at public service offices or other lowthreshold services, such as: Juss-Buss and what the Church Bymission Street Lawyer now offers. But I would point out that today's system is in no way good enough. The Workers' Party and SV have proposed a full review of the legal aid system with a view to improving it. Then the representative Ellingen also brought up something that I thought was a little strange, because he began to mention peculiarities and our budgetary cooperation with the government parties in the autumn of 2003. It was never relevant to discuss the merits of our part, because there were no excesses of free legal aid at that time. The equity was reintroduced when the Progress Party became budgetary partner with the Government. What we see in the case of excesses is that it has become more expensive to get right, and we believe that people who are right will be able to afford to get right. Now that more and more areas of society are being legalised, it is a challenge to provide people with free legal assistance. With the reintroduction of the excess that we now get, for free trial, we can get fractions up to 25 pst. of the total costs available. So the Government and the Advance Party have, with their non-social budget, removed a very important regime for all those who are to have their legal certainty. It has increased the threshold for legal help. The working party believes that it is both unfair, unsocial and unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e255	I am not trying to sue a winner on behalf of SV in the case of forced marriage. What was important to me to be told was that the intention Heikki Holmås and Karin Andersen from SV had with Document No. The 8 was taken care of in the Committee's position, which is unanimous. Thus, there is no point in moving forward with this Document No. The 8th proposal. The reason we got an adjustment like the one we got was among other things. that this document No. The 8 was presented, because that meant that in our committee discussion we took account of those recordings. That's just what I tried to say. When it comes to whether we have forced the government or not, as the representative Marthinsen was in, I just want to remind you of how the debate went on the time we had this up to the discussion, when the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party, knowingly forced the Government to carry out what we wanted, namely to raise the income and remove the peculiarities, correctly, it would turn out, just for a moment. I think this was in 2002. I don't remember it right now. But at least I remember that I was in a debate on P3 with the representative Linda Cathrine Hofstad from the Right, who said that the Right did not want to eliminate the excesses because they would rather raise the income limit in free legal aid cases. But at the same time, they also voted against the proposal to raise this limit to NOK 230 000, which was the proposal that these three parties made. I record that they have not proposed any further raising of the limit by any of the other crossroads where we have discussed the free legal aid system. So the question is whether this wasn't a substitute argument at the time. Greece, for its part, considered that access to free legal aid had to be restricted. So the right hand side has been passed through the government, as we see from the SV side. It does not seem credible to justify the reintroduction of the proceeds in the 2005 budget setting, i.e. this year. writes that ‘moderate use of prostheses in cases of need-tested free legal aid will not cause persons to suffer legal loss as a result of a lack of financial capacity’. We agree with the Council of State that there is a point in trying to get people to agree on the outside of the judiciary as far as possible. But what we're terribly concerned about is that there should be equal access to the legal system, that it shouldn't be that because you have poor finances, because you're poor, you shouldn't get to try your case, you shouldn't get right, as Gunn Karin Gjul said. It's not acceptable. Then we have an unfair system. On the SV side, we are firmly convinced that we are going to see quite horrific results of the changes that have unfortunately been implemented in the agreement that was concluded. We have already received recordings, including: from tenants' associations around, who say that their members, people with bad advice, can't afford to pay the proportion in advance as they should, and so on, don't get the opportunity to try if they actually have rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e266	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, had the word twice before and now gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e269	Only a brief comment to the case rapporteur, the representative Gjul, who says that things are too bad. Yes, we agree on that, and we will do something in common, I expect. At the same time, I register that the representative is concerned with the peculiarities, and there are several of us who are. As a comment in the extension of it again, it would have been tempting to hear the demands of the Labour Party when they sat down and negotiated with the Government on the 2004 budget, for example. increase the point of entry for when you could get free legal aid. I have not registered that this happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e274	No more people have asked for the floor, and the debate in case No. 1 and 2 are over there. [[Food, see page 289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e289	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e302	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e309	During the debate, Mr Gjul, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, put forward the proposals. 1 to 3. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a separate case of free legal aid in 2005, with a view to expanding the scope of the case and embracing a larger proportion of the population. The Finnish model is assessed separately.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether to introduce a maximum price for the hourly fees of lawyers in selected cases involving ordinary consumers in, for example, child distribution cases, housing and property cases, consumer cases, damages cases and matters relating to social rights, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate form.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e437	A different proposal is made for the first subparagraph. That is proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law 13 June 1980 No. 35 in the case of free legal aid, etc. new Section 1 is replaced by the following:Free legal aid under this Act is an aid scheme with the aim of ensuring the necessary legal assistance to persons who do not themselves have financial preconditions in order to meet a need for legal assistance of personal and welfare importance.» The centre party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e1149	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e1159	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e1174	The position of the Committee on B and C shall be to send the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e1227	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-01-lower.ana.ud652e1237	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
