ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e28	The representative of Jørund Leknes will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e31	On behalf of the representatives of Øystein Djupedal, Siri Hall Arnøy and myself, I would like to make a proposal to establish software policy guidelines for Norway, with a view to improving technological solutions and increasing democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e36	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e60	On Monday and Tuesday, the Storting received notices from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Ansgar Gabrielsen Councillor Thorhild Widvey The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e79	I have a question for the Minister of Health. Following the last Legionnella outbreak, in Stavanger in the summer of 2001, the Government promised to take stringent measures to prevent similar situations in the future. All indications suggest that the measures taken were not good enough. It is claimed that the rules on supervision and control are good enough, but it is obvious that the rules are not being complied with and that this is not revealed by proper control. The new outbreak in Eastfold has claimed more lives. Unfortunately, we can't do anything about that. Once again, we have to aim to prevent it from happening again. What will the Government do now? And what kind of action does the Government plan to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e88	Let me first say that there is a serious situation that has arisen in Eastfold, by the fact that 100 people have been hospitalized, 35 of whom have tested positive for legionella, and five unfortunately have gone away. Following the outbreak in Stavanger in 2001, a major effort was made to look at what measures should be taken to clean the cooling tower. New regulations were put in place, and the current health manager of Stavanger, Bjørlow, who was at the Institute of Public Health, was at the head of making such a guide. If all the cooling towers in this country were cleaned as shown by this, I don't think we would have had the situation in Eastfold. So, as the representative says, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that the control of these has not been sufficient. My assessment per year today is that given that this supervisor had been followed, we had not had these problems. Then we're on control and supervision. We're now working on an alternative regime to what we have. I take as my starting point: when we have 600-700 such installations in Norway, I ask a question as to whether it is appropriate that there are 433 municipalities that are to be technical inspectors in relation to this. We must never deprive the municipalities of responsibility for environmental health measures, but technical installations that require a high degree of competence, we know that in other areas it is left to others than the municipality to check. This concerns explosion protection, chemicals, electricity, steam, autoclaves, air tanks or whatever it may be. I therefore see that in the longer term we must have a regime that has a different kind of control, and we must have another kind of reaction to those who do not follow this. We can do that in many different ways. We're working very intensively on that. We are also working on possible emergency measures in the current situation, so that the country’s cooling tower will be in a different ‘shape’ when we go into the summer season, which is the most dangerous time of year for the blooming of legionella.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e97	I thank you for your answer. I understand that there are a lot of things to think about when deciding how to organise a new system. But the important thing now may be to focus on what a new system needs to contain of important individual elements. I believe at least that we need to put in place a system in which the owners of the cooling tower must be able to prove that their installation is clean and in order, and that there is a requirement for such documentation to be available, so that, by means of an enquiry, one can easily demonstrate that it has been checked and found in order. It is also necessary to put in place a system in which regular checks are carried out that the owners have actually done what they are supposed to do. If the owners have not done what they are to do, the installation must be capable of immediate closure. There must also be clear rules, strict follow-up, and it must immediately be broken. Does the Council agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e106	With regard to what the representative here outlines as an overall strategy for future legislation, I must say that I actually share every word. This is the starting point for what we're now working on. We must have arrangements similar to what we otherwise have in the industry, an area I know quite well. There are certification schemes and there are control systems. If you do not have order in the case of a pressure tank with a high damage potential, you are not allowed to use that pressure tank, and then there is immediate action by those responsible for the control measure. This should also be the case in relation to this, and I consider that there is a lack of proportionality between the possible reactions in this area in the case of a technical installation with a high potential for damage and the possibilities available. The second is the fact that spot checks now show that the inspector, i.e. the municipality, which may not have had the necessary attention. I think it would be wise to centralize this in a different way than to have 433 controllers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e113	There will be four follow-up questions – first Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e116	There can hardly be any more important task we have as politicians than taking care of people's lives, health and security. This not only affects those who get sick, and the families of those who die, but it also affects an entire society, which is affected by fear, and whose freedom of movement is restricted. Professor at the University of Stavanger Terje Aven, a specialist in risk management and social security, says that there is a scandal that this should continue, and that the safety thinking in Norway is too much influenced by the reaction when something happens, rather than being in the forefront. The worst thing about this case is that this has happened before. In 2001, seven people lost their lives in a similar outbreak in Stavanger. And the question is, why has it not been ensured that not only the rules are in place, but also the control of compliance? That is essential in terms of safety and security. And question No. 2: When will such control be in place, and how will the Council of State report back to the Storting that the systems are in order?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e125	It's absolutely definitely that everyone involved in damage prevention wants to get ahead of any crisis. That is why, unfortunately, most of the legislation we have related to the prevention of injuries and crises is the result of a previous crisis, whether it be maritime legislation or what it might be. Last time, what was recommended from all these environments to which it is now referred was done. The current Minister of Health, Højbråten, made a point and pointed out in the form of a change in regulations and imposed what was of professional recommendation. Now it turns out that those who were supposed to control, namely the municipalities, have not done the bit that was perhaps the most important. It's probably a complex responsibility to, but what's important is that we do this in a different way now. As demonstrated by the answer given to the representative Hanssen, we have quite clear thoughts about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e133	John I. Alvheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e136	Tragedy in Fredrikstad is bad. There are many different bodies involved that should take responsibility when that time comes. On the other hand, I don't think the time is now – when we have four seriously ill patients lying in the ventilator – to look for scapegoats. We have to get back to that when this situation is resolved. My specific question to the Minister of Health in this way: Can the Minister of Health guarantee that many of the patients who now have this disease and who need a short or long-term follow-up of their lung disease will not bear the financial loss of this? Does the Government fully cover the costs incurred to the individual patient over a shorter or longer period of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e143	I very much agree with the representative Alvheim that what is priority one is the treatment of those who have symptoms, not least of those who have a positive diagnosis, and then of course it is to find the source of the infection. But of course, we've spent most of our energy getting to the patients who are going to treatment. I was in Fredrikstad myself yesterday. I have had a meeting with Health East this morning, and there is no indication that the handling of the individual patient is absolutely satisfactory. We have lowered the threshold in relation to making recommendations to come in to check this out. Now, luckily, it seems that the number of cases is on the verge. Many might suggest that this was a point release sometime in the first half of May, and that the number of people infected is now on the way back. Of course, as regards the individual patient and the economic situation related to the treatment to be administered, this is the result of health legislation. You get that for free in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e152	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e155	It may well be discussed – after what happened in Stavanger, and the tragedy we now see in Østfold – whether the supervisors are good enough in terms of supervision and control. Now I hear the Minister of Health and Health says that in the longer term he will consider a new regime for this, but it will obviously have to take time. The question is then: what will the Minister of Health do in the short term to ensure that both supervisors, competences and resources of today's control regime, i.e. the municipalities, are in a much better position to follow up the owners and the cooling towers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e162	We're working in parallel with four things: 1. to take care of the patient2. to find the source of the infection3. to assess interim measures4. assessing what permanent arrangements we are going to have As far as temporary measures are concerned, I have now in the morning had a meeting with the Institute of Public Health, the Directorate of Social Affairs and Health and Health to look at possible measures that should be put in place, perhaps even before the summer. The legislation on infectious diseases allows us to intervene also in advance, in order to help prevent outbreaks of a similar nature. The legislation on infectious diseases and related legal sources very clearly states that there is an opportunity we have. We now have an assessment of that. I see it as probable that action will be taken to ensure that when we get to summer, everyone who has a tower has an obligation to have carried out the cleaning required by this regulation and this guidance. I can say that the order has already gone out to all build the property of companies under the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e182	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e185	There are enough people who are surprised that this could happen again, with the seriousness that was above Stavanger in 2001, and also with the many promises given in relation to everything that was to be done. I would like to commend the Council of State for having so constructively grasped this. He stresses that the patient is now focus No. 1 and that finding the source of infection is focus No. 2nd@item: inlistbox So I also understand that he now realizes that working out a guide is not enough. I think it's a blind lead to focus on the fact that there are 433 municipalities, because this happens in two large municipalities. But I think it's very important to focus on playing on teams and working together to find the right legislation and the right control mechanisms, rather than spending a little more time on debtting each other. I ask the Council of State to confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e192	First, I want to completely distance myself from what might be trying to emphasize that you owe each other. It hasn't been part of the picture that we drew of this. We have clear legislation on the liability of these things. And I know where the cork is sitting on the bottle, it's sitting on the top. There's no doubt about it. With regard to promises and not promises, I would also like to stress that all the measures proposed have been implemented. The regulations that were made were not – nor in this room – that meant anyone else. There was quite a lot of attention related to this. If everyone had followed this guide, we wouldn't have had this problem. But what's important in the future is that we cooperate with all of them that it's relevant to cooperate with, in order to get input into what we're going to do in the future, in the light of the animal-bought experience we now have. Among other things, I have contacted Veritas, as I know is a major global actor in the certification of many that have great damage potential, in order to get their eyesight. I feel quite certain that in a relatively short time we will be able to conclude with the main lines of a new regime, which I think is definitely better to take care of the health aspect that lies in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e199	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e202	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The elections on 12 September are approaching, and it is probably the last time the Prime Minister is in spontaneous Question Time before the elections. In the public debate on the election campaign, which has begun, the government issue is of considerable interest after the red-green parties have joined forces, and there is nothing similar on the non-socialist side. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what consequences and conclusions he will draw from an election result where the Right and Advance Party get about 18-20 p.m., the Christian People's Party 7-8 p.m., and the Left is above the barrier, i.e. a still non-socialist majority in the Stortinget, but with significant changes the non-socialist parties among themselves. My question therefore relates to conclusions and measures: How does the Prime Minister, if necessary, act to deal with and deal with such an election result?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e212	First, I want to say that we are faced with two clear government options at the forthcoming big shot, the current cooperative government, which has a good balance between center and right, and what I don't want to call a red-green government, because there's going to be a pale green in it, but a red government. These are the two clear options, and that is an advantage for people. Of course, I will not begin to speculate in certain accidents of the election result, what percentage of membership the various parties will need, and what action the Prime Minister will then take. It would be to play off all the cards in advance, and even if I'm not an experienced card player, I know so much that I don't intend to do that. I hope that the elections will provide the basis for a continued non-socialist cooperation regime. I believe that the option we now have is the best. We hope, of course, that the Progress Party also believes, as they did in 2001, after having received an answer to a good number of questions that were asked. I think the kind of clarification we had then stands out well. We have had the pleasure of working with the Progress Party in many cases this four-year period, among other things. several budgets. But as the representative Hagen well knows, we have also seen it as important and necessary to be able to cooperate with other parties on other important issues where the Progress Party has opposed the policy of the Cooperation Government, in fact on some important issues of value. We can't cut off that opportunity if we get a basis to keep going. But if the red -- parentheses green, parentheses end -- the games get a majority in the fall's elections, then the co-operation government sees it so that we can continue until something else is proven.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e221	Does it really mean that the Prime Minister intends to follow a little bit of the line that Prime Minister Kåre Willoch had in 1985, when the pure majority of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party were gone, but the Progress Party came into a so-called tilting position? Prime Minister Willoch did not do anything — no conversations, no consultations at all — despite the fact that the basis of the Government had changed through the decision to raise a stake. Does what the Prime Minister has now said mean that he considers it to be that significant changes made by the electorate in the event of elections in the composition of the Storting, changes in the non-socialist parties, and, if necessary, the fact that the Prime Minister's own party should be halved, because the Prime Minister will not have any consequences? Is it so to understand that the Prime Minister believes that this is completely insignificant when it comes to government issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e228	First of all, I don't think we should prescribe the election result today. In the last Gallup, actually, the Christian People's Party has had clearly better results than Hagen now suggested, even though many like to present it just as Hagen did now. In fact, I think we're on our way up, and there's been major changes in connection earlier in the time we now have up to the election, than what is needed to achieve our goal of a two-digit accession. No post-election situation is without further comparison, nor will it be possible to compare what happened after the 2005 elections with what happened after the election 20 years ago, when the Prime Minister was Kåre Willoch. If the Advance Party were to enter a tilt position after the autumn elections, that is not new compared to the current period. In order to use this concept, the party of progress is also in a tilt position now, and I think that the kind of contact we had with the party of progress after the 2001 elections is a good model for 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e235	There will be two follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e238	What's new in that case is that the red-green parties have gathered together as a government alternative, which will probably make it harder for the sitting government to have this case for the case- collaboration that they're talking about. It means, in fact, to have a government out of non-socialist parties, it depends on cooperation between the parties that form a majority. I thought the whole main point of choice was that the voters would have decisive and democratic influence over the governance of Norway. As I interpret the Prime Minister now, it may sound as if almost unemployed what the voters will, the Prime Minister will be determined not to take it into account, if it were to be so that there is a large progress party that will be decisive for whether there will be a non-socialist majority in this Chamber after the elections. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm or confirm his opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e243	Yes, through an election result, the parties may have greater or lesser influence, and it shall be respected. But it is not the case that the largest party, for example, automatically receives government power, because the Workers' Party should have had it in the current period. So it's not automatic and math this is all about. If there are large shifts in the autumn elections, the Prime Minister and the Government will, of course, consider the situation that has arisen. It's not like that, for example. My party rules at any cost if we feel that we don't get enough influence. But if there is a basis for the co-operation government to continue, and if the Progress Party does not say that they want a red government instead, then I see nothing crucial that we should immediately step back. The fact that the red parties – I think, as I said, that the green colour is very pale – have gathered around a government alternative hardly means that if they get into a minority, they will cut off influence over the next four years and not cooperate with the Cooperation Administration in individual cases. I think they'll definitely do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e248	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e251	This line change was quite interesting: the fact that Hagen lodges to get into the heat at any price, and the way it is possible for the Prime Minister to reject the Progress Party. If you look at what has happened in this period, this government has been supported by the Progress Party, and the Progress Party has actually been a very loyal support for the Bondevik government. That means that all those who voted for Hagen in this period have got Bondevik and the Højbrätt, and that's what they're going to get in the next period. It is interesting to see that the Prime Minister can reject the Progress Party and take them for granted. And there's every reason to take the Advance Party for granted, because despite the fact that the Advance Party promises in the East and West and has country meetings where you go for free ferries and free school food, they are, and have been, when it comes to reality, loyal, cheap supporters of the Government. It's interesting to see this, because it gives perspective to the choice. That means that all those who want to vote the Advance Party for the autumn, they know for sure that they get Bondevik on the purchase, and that might not be what they were thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e258	I understand that it is a lovely sport now at the Reds to frighten with Bondevik, Høybräten and Haugland. Of course, you have to try it out if you want to play on disgruntled progress contestants. But what Djupedal then adds is to play on a dissatisfaction that we're increasing the aid to the world's poor, that we're pursuing a tough economic policy that has contributed to a record low interest rate, that unemployment is going down, that the waiting time at the hospitals is getting closer to half. So if this is Djupedal's review melodi, that by personifying this policy he's going to try to scare, he's going to have to try to do it, but we're actually upright on our policy. We have a more offensive environmental policy than the workers' party government did, so when the Workers' Party is going to outrun SV on such issues, the green color becomes pale. But I understand that SV wants to enter, and with the economic policy and security policy SV stands for, there will be considerable uncertainty in central parts of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e263	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e266	I have a question for the Prime Minister. First of all, a little comment: it shouldn't cost a lot of calories to get greener than this government right here. But we have bigger ambitions than that. What I was going to ask the Prime Minister is poverty in Norway. New figures from the Central Statistical Office show that Bondevik is becoming more poor and that poverty has increased by 24 p.m., in one of the world’s richest countries, from 2001 to 2003. At the national meeting of the Christian People's Party in 2003, Kjell Magne Bondevik said: Yes, we have a poverty problem in Norway too – I decided that if I were to lead a government again, I would address this problem. So now it turns out that the Christian People's Party is going the opposite way in the fight against poverty – poverty is not being reduced, it is being increased. My question to Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik is: Will it be this government's and his most personal defeat that poverty has actually increased and not declined when this downturn is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e276	Of course I have to answer that question. But since Kristin Halvorsen started with something quite different, namely environmental policy, I would say that it is not SV's environmental policy that I have asked questions about, but what is the result of a red government's environmental policy. One knows how the Working Party is doing for polluting gas power plants, and the Center Party will have a protective break. It is this policy that the Kristin Halvorsen must be confronted with, and these are the ones that she is going to cooperate with. Then I would also have said, that no misunderstandings should arise, that I take no parties for granted, nor the Advance Party. We have respect for it, and we want respect for the agreement that the party might have. But as I said, we haven't seen the basis for permanent organized cooperation. So to the poverty problem. The poverty problem has not been solved. That is why, among other things: the revised national budget introduces a new 100 million. NOK, plus 50 million. kr in the rural environment. This is why, as the first Norwegian government, the Cooperation Government presented an action plan. The measures are starting to work. More homeless people receive offers, more addicts receive offers, more poor people receive offers of housing support. So I think that Kristin Halvorsen makes sense to go a little bit behind the statistics. That's how many are below 50 pst. of the so-called median income. The median income is: if one takes a hundred people who are a cross-section of the Norwegian people, the median income is the income of person number. 50, that's in the middle. In fact, the situation is that if all, including the poorest, for example. would double its income, there would be as many or more poor as this definition. Students are also included, and those who only live on loans are in the definition poor. The number of students has increased – and we're glad that that number has increased. Things now indicate that the trend has turned around. This was a statistic until 2003. Then the unemployment rate was quite high, the increase in income was high, and it caused more people to fall below the median income. The trends are now turning around, and things indicate that the numbers are also turning around.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e287	I think it's a considerable spatter prime minister, with a significantly lower level of ambition compared to combating poverty than what we've seen in the past, and than what we saw in the Bondevik I government. Then the tone from this prime minister was a completely different and the level of ambition was much higher. I have some questions that I ask the Prime Minister to go into. One is: is there any international example of the fact that a country and a government that has conducted a systematic right-wing policy in economic policy, which has issued tax reliefs at the top and has drawn on social security payments at the bottom, has managed to combat poverty? So I'd like to repeat the question I asked you at the beginning. This is a prime minister who has said that he has high targets for combating poverty, and regardless of whether the definitions may be a bit demanding, all the material we have now shows that the difference is increasing and poverty is increasing. Will it be the Prime Minister's greatest defeat?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e294	The last one's not right. Kristin Halvorsen must gladly turn himself up rhetorical, but I ask that she stick to the facts. In fact, many of the poorest in Norway are now receiving better help. We inserted the 2002 action plan. This is a statistical one that runs until 2003. These measures are now beginning to work. I'm asking Kristin Halvorsen to stick to the facts. More homeless people get help, more addicts get help, and more of those at the bottom of the ladder get help. There are not statistics, but there are targeted actions to help them. When the general level of income increases, the median income also increases. In fact, a few more could fall below 50 pst. of the median income, even though they have gotten it better. That's the truth. But I'm not satisfied. We're not there. We have the same ambitions and the same commitment that we had before, if Kristin Halvorsen were to cheat on it. The current policy provides more jobs — almost 20,000 more employed in the last year. It's the most important thing to get people out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e303	There will be follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e306	The government is constantly pointing to the poverty package when it comes to showing that they have done something for the poor. But the reality is that the unsocial cuts that this government has stood for, those that hit people who are out of work or who are ill, amount to more than twice the poverty package. In addition, the government has provided tax relief of SEK 19 billion, mostly to high-income families. This year, the poverty package contains 255 million. kr, and only three of the cuts on the unemployed and the reintroduction 0. One hundred million. kr i revised, says the Prime Minister. Yes, in the municipal committee we are now dealing with a matter of new cuts in the daily allowance, which for the year amounts to 90 million. kr. So this is simply not true. Does not the Prime Minister now realize that poverty is increasing, that right-wing policy is taking from the sick and the unemployed and giving to the rich and healthy, is the wrong medicine if you really want to fight poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e313	If we are to help the poor, we must help the poor. In fact, tax policy for those with high incomes is not crucial for how the poor are doing. Therefore, I would like to maintain that several of the poorest in Norway have improved. But we're not there. So this prime minister, if he continues, will continue to fight for targeted action to the poorest in Norway. And this government was the first to put forward a plan for it. Red governments have not done so in the past. Poverty increased, and then not only in an average, for which we've now got numbers, but for the really poor. I'm not saying this as an excuse, but the truth is that when unemployment increases and more people leave the labour market, which tended to be until 2003, there are more people who fall below the median income. And when the general income level rises sharply, you also get more under, even though many of those sitting at the bottom of the table are getting better. But we're not satisfied. The tax burden has largely gone to businesses to increase employment, and therefore the Workers' Party has voted for well over half of it. The cut-offs the representative refers to, they are to strengthen the line of work to get more people into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e320	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e323	It is true that the Government has got the whole of the Storting to take new measures for people who have been on social assistance for a long time, for drug addicts and for homeless people, for example. But the interesting thing is to look at how the Government finances these new measures. That's when we see that the government quite systematically finances actions for the very poor by taking from those who have the next least. Then we see that those who pay for new measures for people who have been on social assistance for a long time are those who are unemployed. Those with the second least, who have lost a lot of income and are on leave leave, will get even less. My question to the Prime Minister must be: does the Prime Minister understand that we are actually getting more poor people in Norway, when the Government is pursuing a policy of taking away the unemployed, who have a small unemployment premium, and giving them even less? Does the Prime Minister think it is surprising that this leads to an increase in the number of poor people?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e330	I guess I also think the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, should go a little behind the statistics and ask himself what this is all about. So this is the proportion of those that are under the so-called median income, which is a middle income. In fact, there may be several of them, although one increases the level of income at the bottom. I'm not saying this as an excuse, but as a fact. That's probably what's behind it. This was a statistic until 2003. Then the unemployment rate was quite high, the increase in income was high, and together it made this happen. That doesn't mean that those who really need it the most have got less. I'm asking Bjarne Håkon Hanssen to notice. Now the time off is coming down, among other things. because of this government's policy. We've got a more moderate income statement. Things indicate, also in the case of statistics on social assistance payments, that the trend is turning around. With regard to the cuts Bjarne Håkon Hanssen pointed out – without me having time to go into them in detail – they have the workline as their purpose, namely to bring people back to work instead of being on passive social security. It makes sense to bring people out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e341	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e344	In 1999, the Prime Minister’s strategy was a policy for smoothing out. Then it was important to step up efforts to get more people to work. It was important with a more social housing policy, with better public services, with a tighter social security network and with a more equitable tax system. Today's government has changed strategy, from smoothing to targeted measures for the most difficult jobs, financed by cuts for the second poorest. That means that it has become more difficult financially to get sick, to get free and to be alone in this country. My question is: is the Prime Minister now willing to reconsider his strategy, not to listen to the Right, and to look at what he stood with the Center Party about in 1999, in order to avoid more ugly social cuts against the second poorest?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e354	I am still convinced that we need targeted action against the poorest. It does not help the poorest if we take action for other groups. The poorest must be helped by targeted action against the poorest. We need the general welfare arrangements. We've had them in Norway for many years, and we're building them up. But they did not prevent us from having an increasing poverty problem, which we also had under previous governments — and under our common government. Using, inter alia: At the time, Social Minister Kleppa, we were able to analyse which groups are the poorest in Norway. Then I hope we can agree that we need to take action against them, because now we know more about them. We know that there are some immigrant environments, we know that it's addicts, we know it's homeless, and we know it's about long-term social welfare recipients. Yes, we took action against them! We have increased the appropriations over this period with – as far as I remember – a place between NOK 3 and 4 billion for these, and we are bringing further measures into the revised budget now. We have to keep doing that. We're also going to work to smooth out. This is not a question of listening to the Right, this is a question of helping the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e363	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e366	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The local economy is under intense pressure. It affects well-being, it affects the provision of school, and it affects the care of the elderly. The NRC reports today that fewer sick homes are available today than in 2001 and that there are fewer employees in the care of the elderly than before. Very many people understand that the local economy is under pressure. The only people today seem to have difficulty understanding that the municipalities are in a tight economic situation are the current government. The centre party does not so often agree with VG's lead writers, but even they seem to have understood the point, when it is written in a manager that when the slimming of the municipalities has gone so far as to hit old and sick, and that school offers are cut, then the knitting is too far. It should also be agreed by the Government, writes VG. The question is: does not the Prime Minister also agree that the strike against a tight local economy is too far? Today’s economic policy affects local welfare, it affects school provision, and it affects care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e379	In the case of the local economy, the picture is quite nuanced. There are some municipalities that still have a very difficult time, and I agree with the representative of Arnstad. But there are also many municipalities that have come into a clearly better economic situation, and in general there has been a growth. That growth shall continue, including in state transfers. This has been proposed by the Government in the municipal proposal, which is now under consideration in Stortinget. When I bring out some numbers now, it's not to suggest that I know that it's difficult in many municipalities. But the truth is that, in line with what we promised in the Sem Declaration, it has been a real growth in municipal income during this period of 1.6 pst. and in free receipts of 0,9 pst. The truth is that a user survey shows that users of municipal services were more satisfied last year than they were the year before. There has also been a better balance in the local economy. The total net operating surplus for the local government sector was 2.4 pst. in 2004, against 0,6 pst. The year before, that is, a clear improvement. With regard to the care sector, for which there were special figures in the news today, we are not at the target yet. However, the truth is that if one takes into account sick leave, the number of annual jobs carried out in the care sector is about the same in 2004 as in 2003. There is an increase in the number of recipients of home services, from 161,000 to 163,000, and we have maintained the number of places in institutions and nursing homes overall. Today, there was a special focus on hospitals. In that case, one should take into account the fact that almost 39,000 new hospital and nursing homes have been built during the elderly action plan period. In particular, there have been many nursing homes, and it may be that the number of nursing homes has fallen somewhat, because several of them may be in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e390	I don't know if operating results should be a success criterion for this government. The operating performance of the municipal sector in 2003 was historically low, so it would be lacking if it did not rise slightly in 2004. I also see that the government has often used the fact that there are no more municipalities under administration. But it is not a matter of getting out of the list of those who are under administration. It's just to cut welfare for the population of the municipalities. It's just cutting into your leg, you get out of it, but there's no good success criterion for the well-being of a municipality. I understand that the government maintains that they think things are going better in the municipal sector. At the same time, the Prime Minister says that one is not at the finish line. The question then is: What ambitions does the Government have in order to step up efforts in local welfare, after a municipal proposition where the Government proposes to grant only one third of what the municipalities feel is necessary to operate properly? How, then, does the Government intend to achieve the goal that they think they are not fully at?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e399	With regard to the objectives of stepping up welfare in the municipal sector, first of all, I would like to say a strong commitment to psychiatry. It's the group that really needs it the most. It happens. We are now following the action plan for the escalation of psychiatry, including the proportion of municipalities. Another objective for the welfare of municipalities is the freedom of choice for young children’s parents, the choice between kindergarten and cash support. That welfare measure will remove a red government because they want to remove the cash support. Thirdly, the goal is for all those in need of nursing homes and nursing homes to have it, and those in need of an exclusive room to have it. We're about to reach the final goal. It's now over 90 pst. coverage in nursing homes, so we're about to reach the goal that those who want an exclusive room will get it. In order to achieve this, the local economy needs to be further stepped up. The government is set up within a totally sound framework, so the economy does not come out of control. That is why we are proposing a growth in total revenue of between DKK 2 billion and DKK 3 billion in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e410	There will be four follow-up questions – first Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e413	I think it is serious that the Prime Minister is trying to talk away that we are constantly getting new reports that older people are being hit by cuts in the provision of services, because while older people are getting older, we are seeing fewer people working in the care and care sector in the municipalities. Getting home help becomes more difficult, getting sicker in relation to the number of older people. This is, of course, because this government has chosen to spend the money on tax relief for those who have the most, rather than giving the necessary appropriations to the elderly in the municipalities. The government has raised an economic situation that has become dramatically worse in the municipal sector during these years. What will the Government now do to grasp the reality that all people in this country see, that older people do not get the services they need, and not just talk it away with numbers that do not give a proper picture of what is happening in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e420	The last thing I think is Schjött-Pedersen is going to think through. I don't think the numbers I've just given you give you a wrong picture. I think maybe others should think a little bit more about what numbers you throw out. I don't intend to talk away the problems. I travel around the municipality of Norway enough to know that there are still major problems, both in the elderly care sector and in other welfare areas in the municipal sector. That's not what I'm going to talk about. On the contrary, I intend to continue working to solve these problems. The mantra to the Workers' Party that all things are solved if we don't give taxes, of course, doesn't last. The Labour Party has voted in favour of most of the tax administrations. It has been important to secure jobs. Creating new jobs is also key in the fight against poverty and for well-being. As far as the number of employees is concerned, Schjøtt-Pedersen does not say that the number in the care sector has decreased. It's actually increased by 13 000. However, precisely in the elderly care sector, the figure, taking into account the change in sick leave, is roughly stable in the number of annual work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e431	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e434	My best advice to the Prime Minister in this matter is to do as he asks when it comes to poverty: to go behind the speech, to go behind the statistics and check out the real world out in the Commune-Noreg. Then the prime minister will see that it's not just about spending a billion or two on income to the municipalities, but that it's actually about lending money to the local authorities. If he wants to fight poverty, the social offices need to avoid cutting positions, and the schools need to get more and not less money. If he wants to strengthen the care of the elderly, he must take inward the fact that per. the date becomes less aid per. In fact, there is a need for more annual work than the 13 000 that the action plan provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e440	I fully agree with Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa that well-being is not primarily a matter of statistics. For me, it is a question of individuals who are going to have the well-being they claim. For entirely natural family reasons, I am actually around some age institutions for the time being, and I am still reminded – probably many others are – that this is about the need for care and well-being of individuals. I fully agree that it cannot be covered by billions or by statistics. There are still many elderly people and others who are not getting the help they need. But then it must also be allowed to show that there are actually more people who have got it, and who have got it better. There are many older people who say they're satisfied with it. Then there's a part that hasn't got it. We're now going to work together to give them a better offer. We must do this both by streamlining services and by increasing transfers to the local government sector. And then we get to keep track of the economy, so that this isn't eaten up by an increasing price rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e447	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e450	It's a good idea to travel around the municipalities without seeing or hearing what's real. The Prime Minister is now trying to describe a reality where things are going a little bit late in the future, but it's getting a little bit better every day. But that's wrong. What today's news shows is that it's going the opposite way. It goes back. There are now more nursing people over 80 years in Norway who need a sick home, who are in line, who do not get enough room than they were before. And then it goes the other way. Then I have to ask the Prime Minister: the shortages in Norwegian care for the elderly are many examples of every day: people who get less home help than before, relatives who like to go on vacation, but who don't dare leave the farm because they can't go into their old mother, and there's no relief place. Will all this information on the actual status of the care for the elderly help the government change its policy, so that we can end it going backwards, and start it going forward? Or is it a government shift that is needed to get to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e457	At least that's not the last one! With lots of money to spend so much money that we get a price rise and an interest rate rise, and a poorer local economy, it's much better that the co-operation government continues to expand the care of the elderly. When I travel around, both I see and I hear – I think as well as Kristin Halvorsen, I don't think she should take patents on being the only one who does it – about big flaws, and I see that something is getting better. I'm taking both of them with me. We learn from the last, that is, from what goes better, to help those who still have clear flaws in care. There has been cross-political agreement on this in Stortinget. Thorbjørn Jagland will have the honour of presenting proposals for a stepping up of care for the elderly, with the development of institutional facilities, mainly nursing homes, because there was the greatest deficiency. There we have, as far as I remember on the move, over 20 000 new ones. It is an improvement for many people. We've got a few more sick places, but not enough. Extension must continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e466	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e469	Let me first remind the Prime Minister that it was a decision in Stortinget during a throne debate – a unanimous one – to get a rapport plan for the care of the elderly that was the background, and not a measure by the government. I am sure the Prime Minister himself will remember that he voted in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. The Prime Minister said that anyone who needs a hospital or care centre will get it. Why, then, is the Prime Minister opposed to obtaining legal rights with regard to public or state-owned services in this area? A lot of municipalities say they don't make it a priority to build hospitals, and they owe it to the weak economy. It may be because you have built a cultural house and a new town hall, but it is at least a weak economy they owe. Why should this not be financed by the transfer from the Rikstrygdeverket to the hospital and the care provider, so that each user has the freedom of choice? The money comes automatically, it is a piece of finance for the offer that the person chooses – i.e., rikstrøgdeverkfunding instead of municipal funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e476	That is because no matter who is responsible, the state or the municipalities, it must be given priority at last. We don't have a sarep truck. According to the opinion of the Progress Party on publicising care services and welfare schemes at all, we should also be able to place the kindergarten sector fully in the country, and we could put the school sector fully in the country. The money has to follow the kids, the money has to follow the older ones – and then you think you're getting away from the priorities. Of course you don't. Whether it is the municipality or it is the state, an actual priority must be given, even though the Progress Party obviously has a completely different budget to deal with than the other parties. When we also think it makes sense that the municipalities have the primary responsibility here, it is because they are the closest possible inhabitants. They're the ones closest to the older ones. They're the ones who know where the shoe prints, and they should make the priorities. Of course, believing that money can follow every citizen of Norwegian society, no matter what welfare schemes they benefit from, will bring the economy completely out of control. We can't have that kind of control. Then it's eaten up by a price and interest rate increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e485	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e488	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. Work is the most important bulwark against poverty. There are 100,000 unemployed today. There are 30,000 more than that when Bondevik became prime minister of his last government. So there are several people who are trapped in the trap that they can also become poor. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore quite specific: Is the Prime Minister satisfied? Is he satisfied that there are 100,000 unemployed? Although the economy is going well, the unemployment rate is going back very slightly – very slightly. There's hardly enough movement on the statistics from a year back. And above all, is the Prime Minister satisfied that there are 30,000 more unemployed today than when he took over the last government, and does the Prime Minister realize that there is a link between unemployment and poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e497	Yes, there is a clear link between unemployment and poverty. I also said that in my answers to the question of poverty reduction. The main response to poverty is to bring more people into work. Now employment is increasing. We expect that the number of persons employed will increase by 18 000 from 2004 to 2005. When unemployment does not go down as much, the reason, as Hill-Marta Solberg well knows, is that more people report to the labour market. But employment is increasing. I'm not satisfied with today's unemployment level. I want it to go down further. Now Hill-Marta Solberg can go back and talk about the statistics when we started. Then, of course, we can go back to the working party government where Hill-Marta Solberg was sitting, which had far higher unemployment rates than it has been under our government. We had the top when the Labour Party leader was Minister of Industry. Then we had a record of being available in modern times. But such a discussion I don't think it's so very interesting that Hill-Marta Solberg pulls forward. I think it's much more interesting to look forward to. What do we do to get the free space down further? Then we focus on innovation and innovation, as this government has done. We're counting on companies to become competitive, i.e. that the level of costs is kept in check, at low prices, at low interest rates, with moderate income settlement. This government has succeeded in contributing, and I will also pay tribute to the social partners who have contributed in terms of income policy. Then we don't live in Norway in isolation. We live in a Europe and with a world around us. It may be interesting to see that we have a much more favourable development in employment now than in other countries in Europe. Since Hill-Marta Solberg is a social-democrat, she is told that in the social-democratically driven countries of Sweden and, in particular, Germany, unemployment is rising sharply. It is not certain that social democratic medicine is the best – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e508	Once again, we were told that the Prime Minister is standing on the pulpit in Stortinget and is delighted that Jens Stoltenberg was the Minister of Industry, who is during his reign. It's a strange experience to witness again. My question is: Does Prime Minister Bondevik tell stories about the unemployed under Stoltenberg and about the development of socially democratically run countries if he meets some of the 30,000 more who have become unemployed while he has been prime minister? Is that the only answer the Prime Minister has for the unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e516	No, of course not. And I'm not happy that the time off was so high under Stoltenberg and Solberg. I'm very sorry about that...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e521	It just looked like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e526	I am very sorry that there was such a high level of leave. But Hill-Marta Solberg has to endure hearing this without being very irritated, when she herself draws out what the leave was like in 2001. She goes back in history, and then she has to bear that some of us have also looked at the statistics under the Labour Party government. But as I said in my first answer, I don't think this is the most interesting, I think it's much more interesting to look forward. That's why I don't talk to the unemployed about old statistics, which Solberg likes to bring out. Then I'm talking about what we can do to get them back to work. In addition to the measures I mentioned, we have also strengthened Aetat to increase their ability to bring people from passive social security into work. In particular, we have increased measures in the case of job-seekers with disabilities, which are some of the weakest in the labour market. This is concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e531	I must ask for the floor for a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e536	I'm sorry. That's no reason. Time allows only one follow-up question, and it is from Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e539	When the number of poor has increased by 25 pst. in two years, i.e. during this period of government, there must be a very clear signal that the Government has failed in the area that the Prime Minister has produced as the main measuring point for this government's policy. So during this period, unemployment has increased by almost 50 pst. in relation to what it was when this government took over. Does the Government believe that it is a correct answer to this strong unemployment that a significant increase in overtime has been allowed in enterprises instead of creating jobs for those who are unemployed? And the Prime Minister believes that there is a good response to the unemployed, who have already received a substantial reduction in their wages as a result of their transition to unemployment benefits, that this government has actually reduced unemployment benefits by up to NOK 20 000–25 000 per year. year for one year off? Does it increase poverty, or does it reduce poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e546	As far as poverty is concerned, to reopen that debate, the most important thing for me is that the poor get better. I think that's actually more interesting than statistics and median income. We've been through this before. The number of students has also increased by 6,000 during the period covered by this survey. It actually turns on the so-called poverty statistics, but I don't think anyone thinks it's regrettable that we're getting more students. So I'm asking Schjött-Pedersen to stick to what we're going to do for the poorest. We don't know the outcome yet, and as for the outcome of our poverty plan, we'll know more about the total impact of this at the end of this period. The statistics to which Schjøtt-Pedersen referred went until 2003. It is therefore not right to say that our action plan has failed. In the case of unemployment, it is on its way down. We're not satisfied. It shall be further down. The working party, when drawing figures from earlier under this government, must be able to hear how this is done, for example. was during the reign of Schjøtt-Pedersen. In the case of overtime, the total overtime capability is not increased. It's actually reduced in a certain way; we've created more flexibility when you can take out overtime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e555	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e561	The President will inform the representatives that there are currently no changes to the agenda for Question Time. That means we can go straight to question 1, which is from the representative of Inge Ryan to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e568	‘From 2007 onwards, the new residence for work and well-being shall be in place throughout the country. This happens at a time when social security skills are being built up in many small municipalities that are already lacking the skills of Aetat. Many fears that small municipalities will easily receive a B-stamp in the new establishment. What will the Council of State do to ensure that our smallest municipalities have good competence in the new welfare state, and does the Council of State think it is a good strategy to reduce social security competence by removing positions in our smallest societies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e575	In St. prp. No 46 for 2004-2005, New Labour and Welfare Administration, which is now to be dealt with in Stortinget, the Government has introduced clear leadership and demands for a new establishment. All users shall be provided with a physically accessible labour and welfare office to which they may apply. The Office shall be a recognisable gateway to the overall services of the labour and welfare management, and it shall be located in all municipalities, but with the possibility of inter-municipal solutions where one considers this to be desirable locally. These offices shall provide a rapid and comprehensive clarification of needs and a coordinated service provision. At the same time, there is a requirement for the Agency to provide all necessary coordination both within the labour and welfare management and against other relevant services for users. Users shall be provided with equivalent, individually adapted service, an offer irrespective of the resources and competences located in each local labour and welfare office. The total system shall be available to each user through this gateway. These shall be essential framework conditions for the development of the new state budget. They have just been formulated to ensure that the representative Ryan and I are also very concerned about. With such a starting point, local cooperation partners, the municipality and the new state budget should be given a high degree of freedom of action to find concrete solutions tailored to local needs and challenges. In most parts of the country, there will be a basis for the establishment of a labour and welfare office with an on-site staff with a breadth and competence to continuously address complex needs. However, given the Norwegian municipal structure and given very many complex tasks, neither can or should you have employees everywhere who, through their own competence, cover it all, both in width and depth. The development of those who use the services also requires specialisation in order to be able to make an adequate offer. The new state budget must, as is also being done within today's institutions, constantly balance the consideration of user proximity with the consideration of competence and quality in dealing with the needs of users. In the proposal submitted, the Government has taken the view that users should in any case be able to have contact with the administration via their local office. The main organisational principle shall be the acquisition of competence to the user. At the same time, there is a high level of competence in the reform, including: to ensure that all offices — not least small ones — meet users in a qualitatively good way. So I would also mention that a lot of work tasks do not require physical proximity to the user. These can often be solved more effectively in their own environments of competence, which in turn will release resources for the user-oriented work of local communities. These include: this has been the development of today’s social security system, to which the representative Ryan refers. The social security system, which exists in each municipality, manages a complex set of rules, which imposes the right to access and detailed knowledge. With the municipal structure we have, there has been a need for coordination of a number of services that require special proximity to the user.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e590	Thanks for the answer. First of all, I just want to stress that SV and I are happy that you come up with a new welfare seat. I think the thinking that the Council of State stands for is right. What surprises me is that in the last two to three years, the social security offices, existing in all municipalities, have lost a lot of jobs. I was last week visiting a couple of municipalities where they had halved the number of employees in the social security office in the last year. If I had been sitting in the Council chair, I'd rather have wanted to build skills around the social security offices when they're also going to get in Aeta's functions. We know that Aetat today only has a few municipalities, in the large municipalities, but you don't have it in the small municipalities. I think it would have been natural to say that now it is a year and a half until we get the new welfare office to go, and that we need to fill in with more competence among the employees at the social security offices we have, among other things. with the competence and competence of Aetat. But what we see is that you build down. It makes us in SV worried.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e599	Let me first say that in my opinion, what we're doing is consolidating today's welfare management to also be able to serve the small municipalities. The fact that we make a common front with the municipalities and the two current state budgets will provide an opportunity for a stronger and heavier presence in all municipalities that would not have been there if we had continued with today's fragmented model. As far as developments in the future are concerned, the purpose of the arrangement we are now preparing is to build skills. The reform we are about to implement is, to a large extent, a reform of competence. However, it does not necessarily mean having a full-scale labour and welfare office with broad and deep competence in all municipalities. I think most people will realize that the municipal structure we have in Norway is not possible. It won't provide the necessary quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e606	In the past, I was the rapporteur in a small municipality who tried to get to a public service office there, among others. social security offices and equality offices should be active participants. What you experienced at the time was that state agencies, when you came to such cooperation projects, actually got very excited to participate. It was regulation and also resource use that kind of made you look limp. Can the Council of State at this time promise that there is a little more offensive on the part of the State when you go in with the municipalities, so that the municipalities don't have to bear too much of the burden and almost have to push things through to make it work better? Question no. 2 is: When a municipality that has previously had three persons in the social security office is now sitting with one, does the Council of State see that there is a satisfactory staff to serve a welfare office?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e613	The answer to the first question is definitely yes. Just because of the consideration that Ryan pointed out, the government has proposed to the Stortinget that we legislate the common front between municipalities and the state of the labour and welfare administration. This means that a local counsellor or social security officer cannot reserve himself against the development we are going to have. It will be compulsory by law decisions in Stortinget. As far as manning is concerned, I would say that the possibilities of getting a good enough crew in each municipality are increasing when we open up cooperation between the state and the municipality on the problem resolution, as we do in the proposition I referred to. This will allow you to see the problem solution across the main division between state and municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e625	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Neurosurgical surgery is a highly specialised subject, often complicated and risky intervention. The surgeons need training, and there is a deal that one needs a population base of about 1 million inhabitants to maintain enough training and quality of treatment. In Health West, the neurosurgical supply is fragmented – in Bergen and Stavanger. The professional advice was that planned brain operations should only be carried out in Bergen. What is the reason why the Council of State intervened and got the Governing Council to take decisions contrary to this Council?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e634	First of all, I would like to stress that I have not intervened and superseded the decision to locate the neurosurgical offer in the Health West. This is a decision of the regional health enterprise and is in line with the ownership reform introduced by the government of Stoltenberg. Neurosurgery is a highly specialised medical discipline, requiring both a stable and sufficiently large patient base and predictability. In order to ensure the necessary professional basis, cooperation between two entities may be desirable. If the representative of Frøiland goes in and reads the decision of the Health West Board in March, this is based on two basic principles. Firstly, there should be mutual professional cooperation in neurosurgery between Stavanger and Bergen, based precisely on predictability and continuity. Secondly, the current scheme involves a thorough documentation of the activities and an evaluation of the results in one year’s time. I am aware that there was a professional recommendation to gather the brain operations involved, planned brain tumor surgery, one place in the Health West, namely in Bergen. I received a number of enquiries prior to the current board meeting. I then chose to meet, among others. Rogaland magnification representatives to hear more about the matter, as they saw it. This is a practice I feel reasonably confident that also former government councils are familiar with. Although decisions are taken by health businesses, it is important that we, as responsible politicians, listen to the reactions this is taking place in society and that they are communicated to the current board. However, it was Health West's government that changed some of the premises and then made a decision that more strongly obliges mutual cooperation between Stavanger and Bergen. Finally, let me repeat what I said in my reply about the same matter to the representative Meltveit Kleppa – the day after the current board meeting: ‘As far as I can see, the grips of the Health West Board are essentially part of a functional distribution with clear qualitative objectives, and it is important to put a line under ‘qualitative objectives’, related to the treatment of brain tumours. This type of adaptation of the tasks in the regions within a discipline is based on medical professional judgement and, in my opinion, is within the scope of action which the RHF Governors must and must have, and in line with the responsibilities that we have given to the Governing Board.’;» I am still in favour of this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e652	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I will assure you, if necessary, that I have read both the decision of the Health West Board and the setting that came before it. In that setting, the professional board was clear. Meltveit Kleppa said in his question to the Council of State that it was wrong to take the setting that was set to be taken. So one felt reasonably sure that it would be taken another decision than what the Council of State seemed to say he had not intervened. But when I read his answer again, he also says, ‘As long as we have a telephone in this country, I think it will go brilliantly in the future too.’ And there is no doubt that the council has made contact with the board of Health West, which made a different decision. But my question to the Council of State is: does he feel comfortable with the professional assessments that are made here, that Health West's board has made a different decision and has not followed the professional advice, after telephone calls from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e661	It is definitely that I called the director of Health West to convey the message that, among other things. Tore Nordtun and others from Rogaland had led in the field. We are well aware that the postal address is important for where we believe the activities should take place in the healthcare system. We have a lot of experience for that. With regard to the professional content of this matter, it is not the case that the Ministry assesses the professional content of the matters decided upon by the Board of Health Companies and Hospitals. We don't do professional reviews of it. This does not mean that from time to time there are no issues that get so much attention that we also have to do it, and consider whether we should intervene. It could be the closure of maternity wards, it could be the relocation of surgical wards and whatever it might be. In this case, we have full confidence that the board of Health West’s decision is based on a professional basis that they hold, and I have also been confirmed by Health West.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e668	When the Council of State has contacted representatives from Rogaland, he is, of course, fully entitled to do so. In the Health West region, it is Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane in addition to Rogaland. So we had of course appreciated that we were also contacted. But we actually felt very happy about the setting that was leading to the board that day, that they would preserve the whole Health West's interests when it pertains to neurosurgery. What can happen now is that the population base is too small to achieve the quality of operations both in Stavanger and Bergen. Then the surgeons will flee to the Austland, and the patients will travel to the Austland. So more than the struggle between Stavanger and Bergen, I am busy that in the Health West we should have such a large basis and so competent surgeons that they can operate and do the necessary interventions, and then we need a population base of about. 1 million inhabitants. It's the professional assessments here that I'm very afraid will fail, and then one will be able to escape to Austland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e675	Let me start by saying in my last answer that I feel quite certain that neither the politician Frøiland will have difficulty finding matters where she has had a strong commitment to professional recommendations. If we had followed all the professional recommendations in the Norwegian health care system, the map we have would have looked very different than the situation now. Then it's not right that the Council of State made contact with Rogaland's big bench. It was Rogaland's bench that was active and made contact with the state council. I don't remember getting such an enquiry from the Hordalands bench or Sogn and Fjordane bench. And so I have a standing system for this: at the moment I get an enquiry from Stortinget, I usually come back in 24 hours, a maximum of 48 hours. I would also have done that if the Hordaland bench had been so proactive and taken such an initiative. The entire West is represented on the board of Health West: Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland and Rogaland. And Health West's regime balances the responsibility, even geographically, and I have full confidence that they have done so in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e686	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Welfare and is worded as follows: «According to PRISY, Joint Organisation of Private Hospitals, regional health establishments do not comply with the tendering rules for the preparation of invitations to tender. An overview shows that neither Health Mid-Norway nor Health Nord introduced quality criteria, and no one introduced criteria for epicrisis time. The waiting time from consultation to treatment was interesting only for Health South. Will the Council of State take a closer look at this practice and require a better follow-up of the rules on tenders?»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e695	The care of regional health enterprises involves the purchase of services from various private providers. It is, of course, provided that this is done in accordance with the applicable public procurement legislation. On repeated occasions — and at the latest during business meetings with regional health establishments in January of this year — the Ministry has underlined the importance of regional health establishments practicing the orderly and proper management of various private service providers. At the same time, it is clarified and repeated that the activities of health establishments are to be carried out in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements. Of course, this also applies in the field of procurement. In the case of specific calls for tender, regional health establishments have degrees of freedom to determine which assessment criteria are most appropriate for the purchase of services from private operators. There may be different views among different actors on which assessment criteria should be used and how these should be given weight. Concrete criteria and requirements could differ in different calls. However, I assume that the necessary requirements for quality and soundness are met in the agreements that are concluded. For example, in relation to possible criteria such as the epicrisis period, I would like to point out that Health Nord did not include this as a specific criterion in the competitive basis of its purchase of services from private hospitals in 2004. However, the epicrisis period was one of many elements asked in the negotiations with private providers to assess the quality of the service. The supplier was selected on the basis of an overall assessment, where the quality aspect was both an expressed criterion and had an impact on the choice of the provider. As I have previously informed Stortinget about, as Minister of Health and Welfare, I have stepped up the purchase of enterprises in accordance with the applicable public procurement legislation. As the owner of regional health enterprises, the Ministry will, of course, continue to pay attention to the fact that this is followed up by health enterprises. In addition, I can say that I have had a meeting with the organisation that the representative mentioned in his question, namely the Joint Organisation of Private Hospitals, which has also pointed out to me some of these things in front of the business meetings I had in January. I have taken that up naturally and of course with the companies, in order to get as good a tendering process as possible and in line with the legislation applicable to public acquisitions, which I also made while I was Minister of Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e708	I thank the Council of State for the answer. For me, it is somewhat incomprehensible that not all regional health establishments have the same tendering rules when purchasing services. Nor can I see any reasonable explanation as to why several companies omit the requirement for an epi-crisis time and not least the requirement for quality. To me, this seems quite unprofessional. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of having established procedures for the discharge of epicrisis, and that these take place within the shortest possible period of time in the interests of the after-treatment of the patient. This also has to the greatest extent to do with service quality. I would like to ask the Minister for Health: can there be a lack of professional competence in healthcare companies that makes the tendering requirements so varied from one company to another?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e717	Actually, I don't have reason to claim that. I believe, however, that we must be so honest as to say that the competence in obtaining tenders was probably not the same in the day one after the reform was launched. There have been cases in which the National Audit Office has pointed out that there has been no compliance with the regulations, and this has been a natural part of the internal training they have had. However, I feel after having been around some of these companies to just look at the procurement, that the practice is very different. Just as if you don't think when you're going to get hundreds of offers in the five health companies, that they will necessarily be made completely identical even if it's the same law that's on the ground, it would be that if the Great Britain's 165 would ask for a price on a car, the specifications will vary, even though it's actually the same quality that you're looking for. And then there are contract negotiations, and then there are such additional questions. Epicrisis time will be one indicator of the quality of an offer, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e724	I thank you again for the answer. Quality criteria may be difficult to demonstrate, but one such criterion is patient satisfaction, which should be used to date for the evaluation of tenders. It is the patient and not least the patient’s relative who should at all times have the best knowledge of how he or she is satisfied with the treatment in a hospital or clinic when one looks at the total and not least at the information and communication between patients, doctors and relatives. The Minister for Health has partly answered my question, which was whether the Minister for Health will take the initiative to get some more uniform rules for tendering as far as this is practicable, but he would like to repeat the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e733	Is that what the Council of State wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e736	Yes, President. But I don't think I have the opportunity to repeat it, at least not verbally, because it was a nuance compared to taking the initiative on what is going on in the invitation to tender. I had a very strong focus on exactly what is going on at the invitation to tender. I'm busy with two things. One is that one should follow the rules that, after all, are laid down. And the second is that there has to be equality when you get tenders, so that the different, possible suppliers can relate to one thing. I recognise that the initial specifications for tenders were too loose, and it was therefore too difficult and random which choices were made. In dialogue, inter alia: with PRISY, I think we have come up with a better basis for obtaining a tender. Patient satisfaction will always be an important criterion. Fortunately, we live in a country where patient satisfaction is very great. This applies both in public and private hospitals. That satisfaction I think could be further reinforced by the fact that you have a focus on the representative Alvheim here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e749	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The defence continues to dispose of a lot of equipment which is no longer necessary for the defence, including: M6 trucks provided from the United States to Norway. Some of these have ended up in North Korea, as help from Norway. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to dispose of equipment which is not formally owned by Norway and that it must be cleaned up before it is disposed of?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e758	Procedures for the disposal of superfluous material from the Defence Department are set out in the Ministry of Defence's material management guidelines of 20 December 2004. Both current and previous legislation provides that materials of American origin are to be disposed of according to American guidelines. This implies that the transfer of material of American origin on a case-by-case basis is subject to approval by the US authorities. The M6 trucks in question were transferred to Norway as part of the Marshall aid. We committed ourselves not to transfer the material to other owners without prior approval from the US authorities. As a result of the conversion of the Defence and the desire to support Norwegian humanitarian organisations, approximately a transfer was made in 2002 and 2003. 1 100 trucks to Norway's Red Cross. Formal transfer of ownership provided for approval by the US authorities. Norway’s Red Cross has been given two rounds of M6 trucks. The first shipment took place in the summer of 2002 and covered approx. 200 trucks. The application for retail authorisation of Red Cross was sent to the US authorities on 9 July 2002 and was granted three weeks later by the US authorities on 1 August 2002. The second transmission took place in the summer/harvest 2003 and winter 2004. The Red Cross was then transferred to 900 trucks. A prerequisite for the transfer was the approval of the US authorities. Therefore, all registration cards were also retained and remain in the custody of the Defence Logistics Organisation. Nor has the sales message been sent. The application for approval was sent to the US Embassy on 16 December 2003. But the U.S. Embassy has not received any response. Pending the formal approval, Red Cross chose to allow part of the trucks to be used for humanitarian operations in North Korea, Haiti and Chad. On January 23, 2004, Red Cross sent a letter to the U.S. Embassy that they were transferring the trucks to Chad. The FLO received a copy. Following the flood disaster, there was also a precarious need for truck capacity in the river basins. In this connection, the Red Cross 63 vehicles were transferred to the Indonesian Red Cross. In North Korea, the Red Cross states that the five trucks concerned were painted white and clearly marked with national Red Cross symbol. According to reports, they have been used by the Red Cross in a health programme for the transport of medicines and medical devices in an area covering 2,300 health institutions, which again reaches 8 million people. For this the trucks are very suitable, they have good terrain characteristics and can reach remote strokes. However, all further exports of vehicles have been stopped. It will be further clarified in the Ministry of Defence’s guidelines to the FLO that, according to the applicable guidelines, end-user acceptance is to be reserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e777	I thank the Council of State for the answer this time, and for the answers to the questions I have had in this four-year period. Well, this is going to be the last question of this kind -- we'll see what time is going on. It was to the extent of a complementary and good answer, which refers to what has happened, and what hopefully will happen. What I want to clarify is that the defense is to be clean about everything you own and what you use. We have different ownership relationships to equipment in the defense, we have loan relationships, we have rental relationships, and we have things that we kind of just have. If we are to dispose of any of this equipment, we must have a good relationship with who owns it, and in this case Norway was not the formal owner. Then it has to be cleaned up before you give things away. There is a little correctness to the defense, as I see it, but there is also perhaps a correctness to the Red Cross, who has not followed up this. The rules you have on how to do it when you give things away are clear. Therefore, I ask the Council of State once more: will this be cleaned up in both the equipment that has already been given away and the equipment that will be given away in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e784	I also thank you for a good and pleasant dialogue over a long period of time. I fully agree with the questioner, the existing legislation must be followed. There's no doubt about it, and it's clear that the FLO should make sure it happens. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the first shipment of trucks took place with the approval of the authorities, the embassy replied. However, in the case of the second transmission, which was completely parallel to the first one, no response was received. There is no excuse not to make sure that you actually get an answer before transferring the trucks. At the same time, I would like to stress that it must in no way be produced as if these five trucks to North Korea were somehow the transfer of war material to the North Korean state. Here it is important to stress that the Red Cross has a responsibility to help people in need, including those in need under a dictator, and I find no reason to question the fact that these five trucks to North Korea have actually been able to provide important help to 8 million people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e791	I thank you once again for the answer, which was a good answer. We certainly all agree that this is a good use of equipment that the Defence does not need anymore. I know well about the M6, I know the driving characteristics, and M6 trucks are very suitable for this type of purpose. I also have no difficulty in continuing to give away this kind of equipment and other equipment to such organisations, but the ownership relationship must be clarified before we give anything away.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e798	We are in complete agreement here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e803	It was today's last question, and case no. 1, Question Time, has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-25.ana.ud521e814	There is no record.
