ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e41	The representative Anita Apelthun Seal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Ola Røtvej, has taken the seat. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e68	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e75	I would first like to comment on what the Government needs to clarify in this debate, namely the question of a new involvement of Norwegian special forces in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation in Afghanistan. The working party has supported such an exposure twice in the past. We have also said that we give priority to Afghanistan over a Norwegian military presence in Iraq. The Labour Party has a number of questions that can hardly be answered in an open-ended magnificence. Given that the answers are satisfactory, we will support the Government in complying with the request of the US authorities. It is important that NATO succeeds in Afghanistan if we are to overcome terrorism. But then there's not enough security forces in NATO within ISAF. Some also have to go after the terrorist groups that continue to hold in Afghanistan and parts of Pakistan. The working party therefore finds it difficult to say, as SV, that it is, in principle, unacceptable to participate in the American-led ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, while it is entirely acceptable to participate in the NATO-led ISAF strength. There may, of course, be resource-related arguments that we should not engage in both places, but we cannot say to our closest ally, which we assume is to escape in a crisis situation, that we find it unacceptable to be under their command in a military action based on a unanimous Security Council resolution based on Article 51 of the UN Charter on the right to self-defence. That is the case with the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation. Several events give rise to optimism in the fight against terrorism and the possibility of peace in the Middle East. The elections in Iraq were a great step forward. The Palestinians have managed to hold elections under very difficult conditions and deployed a president who went to the elections to end the violence. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has taken a brave step that must not be underestimated, namely to withdraw from Gaza and to complete the Jewish settlements there. The whole world is now breathing and asking, Will terrorist groups be able to destroy this positive development by launching new acts of violence against innocent civilians? The killing of former Prime Minister Hariri in Lebanon is not uplifting. I've been told – I don't know if that's the whole truth – that Hezbollah has now tripled the payment to families that will carry out suicide actions against Israel. Hezbollah has footrests both in the West Bank and in Gaza. There is reason to believe that Hezbollah will do everything in its power to destroy the path of Palestinian self-government towards a two-state solution. I mention this because Hezbollah is supported among others. by Iran. I therefore think it is a significant problem that Norway is increasing its financial involvement in Iran without any clear Norwegian policy. It looks like it's the private initiative that decides our involvement. In this way, we can damage what has been a Norwegian main line and a Norwegian main project in the Middle East, namely to create peace based on the two-state solution. Iran is in favour of a one-state solution. The country has a policy of destroying the State of Israel. This is why Hezbollah is supported. They have activities both in southern Lebanon, targeting Israel in the north and infiltrating the West Bank and Gaza. If we are to find peace in the Middle East, we need to develop a common European and American strategy to change the Iranian regime's policy in terms of both the position of nuclear weapons and support for terrorist groups. Norway has to play with Europe, which is now using trade policies to achieve this. Having said that, I would strongly warn against a military attack on Iran. The majority of the Persians are tired of the clergy. If Europe and the United States treat the Persians with respect but at the same time make clear that there can be no better economic and political relations with the West by continuing to support terrorist groups and develop nuclear weapons, this could support the opposition and increase the pressure on the regime. Nobel Prize winner Shirin Ebadi now expresses in a broad article in the international press that this is the only way to bring about a change in Iran. The threat of war will gather people behind the regime. It's hard to have a foreign debate without mentioning the dramatic situation in Darfur. The report by the United Nations Commission, which has examined the situation in Darfur, is a dismal reading. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the Security Council should send the report to the International Criminal Court. The threat of being brought before the criminal court is probably an effective means of deterring those who will commit war crimes or crimes against humanity to be dealt with by the criminal court. They must know of the world community will go after them until they are held accountable. Then I find it unacceptable that our main ally, the United States, has still not ratified the Criminal Court Treaty and is trying to prevent the UN Security Council from transmitting the Darfur report to the International Criminal Court. Norway needs to keep a clear and high profile. Over to more homely relationships. The fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union triggered a geopolitical earthquake that we only now see the deep effects of. Our security policy framework has changed dramatically. Just think of what is happening in the northern regions as a direct result of this geopolitical earthquake! The Soviet Union then lost to say overnight almost all of the republics that gave them access to the sea. Therefore Russia is now upgrading Murman port. Oil and gas from Western Siberia and Timan-Petsjora will be exported over Murmansk. That's where they have access to the sea. According to the North Sea investigation, this will lead to a very rapid withdrawal of at least 1 100,000 tonnes of oil or gas tanks from Murman port every day, and every 100 000 tonnes of tanks will remain along our coast, in our action area, for three days. So much has the capacity of the Murman port increased as a result of this geopolitical earthquake. Plans have also been launched to import nuclear waste for storage in Russia over ports in the northern regions. When the EU builds up its defence and security policy capacity, and Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schröder immediately states that the EU will become more important than NATO in the future, this is the result of the same geopolitical earthquake. As a result of what happened in 1989, Europe is being brought together. We no longer have the United States and the Soviet Union against each other. The United States, Russia and the EU will be the key actors. Interests and contradictions will cross and cross. But what we know is that Europe will coordinate within the EU in relation to both the United States and Russia. It is not likely that we, who are outside the EU, will lose influence as a result of this development. We've already done it. Sweden and Finland will have greater influence in NATO than we do in NATO, because the EU will coordinate its policies with NATO, and there they sit around the table. The committee which has submitted an inquiry into the North Sea policy calls for the negotiation of common rules for the activity in the Barents Sea through its own Barents Sea Agreement. I agree, but we do not deserve to deal with this in relation to Russia on our own. We have to go with the United States. We had also served to sit around the table in the EU to get ‘backing’ there, and to be able to influence EU cooperation with Russia on energy policy, which is already in full swing. It is unsustainable that, as Europe's largest energy nation, we cannot help in determining Europe's energy policy, when it has such direct impact in our northern regions. As the president has probably noticed, I still find it strange that the geopolitical earthquake that took place in the 1990s has not led to anything but that we have kept our ears shut and tried to shield ourselves from the tremors. The strategy has been to bring about ever new special arrangements in relation to the EU. I am totally in favour of this – even as regards what the Government will now have a system, namely in relation to the European Defence Agency – but it cannot give Norway the place we need in security policy and foreign policy when the framework conditions change as significantly as we see now. This has really happened since 1989 – slowly but surely – but we have done very little to take the consequences of it, except that we have developed special arrangements at all levels. It might be to the seventh and finally make us a strange nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e116	The Head of the Foreign Affairs Committee gave a perspective on the reality description given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his presentation. I have nothing to object to any of it. Especially clear and clear was the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs said about issues related to Norwegian intervention in Afghanistan. If I heard correctly, it was also in it a fairly clear and explicit distance taken from what has been said by SV on the same matter after the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement. My question is, how does Jagland see that so far different realities can be reconciled in government cooperation? It is not possible to take both positions at the same time when there is such a fundamental disagreement about what our security policy commitments are all about. Nor do we have any experience in Norway that coalitions between parties with quite different perceptions of reality in foreign policy should solve problems together.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e123	Obviously, there are differences here that have led back to disagreements about the relationship both with NATO and with the United States, but I think it must be possible to rely on the following policies: we are involved in military actions based on UN mandate, provided that we have resources for it. We are not forced to do so, but if we have resources to do so, we should be involved. That's what we're doing now. If the United States initiates actions that have no mandate from the Security Council, we are not included. Neither were we in the war in Iraq. I believe that for any government this is important principles to deal with. It is certainly not relevant for the Workers' Party to go away from those principles. In the case of the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, it was initiated under a unanimous Security Council Decision, having regard to Article 51 on the right to self-defence. It's very rare that it happens. That's why this is very rooted in the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e130	The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee affected Darfur and the issue there, which is very serious. There we have probably faced a problem where the United Nations has not been able to make the necessary decisions. There has been internal disagreement in the UN Security Council in parallel with the fact that there has been a major assault on the people in Darfur – many have called it a genocide. How should such a problem be addressed when the UN fails to act? The Labour Party attaches great importance to the role of the UN as an international conflict solver, but when the UN does not set up, where are we, and what do we do for the people of Darfur?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e137	I think we could have done something more. The UN Security Council has given a mandate to this force mobilised by the African Union. We could have helped finance it. It would have helped them to put this into action faster and perhaps more efficiently. We haven't. I have publicly addressed this earlier. Now we have to do everything we can to press forward this report from the United Nations Commission to the International Criminal Court of the United Nations Security Council. It would be a clear marking and a deterrent to those who will continue to do so. I also think it is necessary to speak much clearer to the regime in Khartoum, which is clearly behind what is happening in Darfur. One cannot hide behind the peace agreement that has been concluded with the South, and thus prevent international reactions from what they do in Darfur.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e142	Turkey is increasingly moving towards Europe, not least in relation to the pending applications. We see that Turkey has a little problem within NATO. We see that NATO does not have the function they should have had in relation to Turkey, and Turkey is simply in conflict with the United States. One doesn't think at least of the possible creation of a Kurdish state, which, at my discretion, could have positive effects. We also see Schröder's play against Atlantic cooperation – we see that this is raking. We even have Norwegian officers as usual saying: Jacobsen, NATO was over seven to eight years ago. Didn't you find out yet? We get into a situation where the United States and the United Kingdom run more and more on their own. And will it not be possible for Norway to once again strengthen the UN, as a large international operator, by sending out our forces with blue helmets while seeking to achieve natural cooperation in our neighbourhood on security policy, not least on the basis of the recognition that Norwegian security is at least not being built in Kabul?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e151	There was a lot here, but Kabul is no longer far away. What happened in Afghanistan affects us all – it concerns the security of the world. That's why we've said, and I understand that is SV's opinion, that getting control of the situation in Afghanistan is point number. 1st@item: inlistbox Then I agree that there are also security issues here in our area. It would be very positive if we could get better cooperation with our neighbouring countries about it, but it can only now happen within the EU. There is no other frame. This cannot happen within NATO, but it can happen within the EU. We can mobilise the EU in the important work that we now need to do in relation to the northern regions. Otherwise, I don't think the establishment of a Kurdish state will be any good things. That's what Congragel in Turkey has gone away from, because it's going to trigger a huge amount of turbulence across the region. What you should try to do is just what you have done in Europe, to make sure that the borders don't mean so much longer, so that you can get a united Iraq and provide for a united Turkey, but that the Kurds can live across borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e160	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e164	The Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his presentation to the Stortinget, drew on the 100th anniversary of this marking, and it is natural to do so in 2005 in a foreign policy statement, as much more so as the events in 1905 had an explicit connection with Norwegian foreign policy and an autonomous Norwegian foreign policy. That's why it can also be useful to cost yourself a never-ending review of this 100-year period, because it can be a lot to learn from, given the challenges we face. On 23 May 1905, the representative, Brandt, from Akershus, spoke in the Lamentations debate about the events that were in the middle of the day, as follows: «For the cause of peace will win its final victory, so that the peoples will learn to look at each other with quite different islands than now. It must be pointed out to people that they are not only citizens of each state, but that they are also members of the great international civilised human society»... «The states are still standing with their narrow political boundaries; but they will also soon fall, and the peoples will join together in larger and larger groups»... «and it is no longer an unthinkable idea that all European states can join together in a great alliance of states, like the North American Free States.» In the same debate, Prime Minister Christian Michelsen commented on this in the following way: 'But the first condition for us to be able to make a full contribution to the realization of the dream of the great future of a new time, as war is an impossibility between the 'United States of Europe', must be that we have become first and foremost a free people and master of our own house.'... 'When the day comes, as Norway has re-established its full sovereignty, then I believe that the honourable representative should not be forgotten to appeal to the National Assembly of Norway to be in first place when it comes to supporting this movement. For this reason, our work of independence is now a prerequisite for and part of the great work, as Mr. Fire so hotly recommended.’ These visions of the future were daring, and 100 years later, we still have problems fully maintaining the level of ambition on behalf of the Kingdom of Norway. What has happened over the past 100 years is that in the first part of the last century, we put everything on one map of Norwegian foreign policy, namely the neutrality line. And we were fundamentally convinced that it was the best way to meet our own security needs, and maybe in the background there was some of the thinking Ibsen has in typical Norwegian manner in the words "A People's Enemy", with the quote: "The strongest man in the world, he is most alone." The neutrality line was literally torpedoed, literally and in transferred meaning, beginning during World War I, with what then hit the Norwegian merchant fleet, but seriously in 1940. And from then on, the Norwegian prescription has been military alliance policy. We joined NATO from the beginning, and all Norwegian thinking has since then, from the end of the 1940s, been tied up to the idea of the two superpowers, which constituted the poles of the global system, the Soviet Union and the United States. This prescription was an adequate response, but I fully share the views of the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee on what has happened in the last 15 years. But it is not really until now in 2005 that what happened at the beginning of the 1990s manifests in a very dramatic way in our own continent, Europe. The statements made by the German Chancellor of the Federal Republic – I had just said – fall into the strongest possible forum, namely the large international security conference that took place last week, are an incomprehensible message that Germany today has a reality that is back where Germany has traditionally had its own reality, namely that Germany is a central European state equally concerned with thinking about its relations towards Eastern Europe and all the way to Moscow, which is of briefing itself on the Atlantic and maintaining close links with the US government. At the same time, we know that Norway is more dependent on its relationship with Germany than any other European country. This applies economically and commercially — we all know that — but it also applies every time Norway has its own vital interests to care for, for example: within the European Union. Every time Norway has needed to promote its views, Germany has been the main supporter of Norway. We have to deal with the fact that both the world and our own continent have undergone a rather dramatic change over the past 15 years. This means that Norwegian NATO membership, from the Norwegian point of view, is of course still important, and that is still the answer we have to the question of how we take care of our own national security. But we have to see in our eyes that that answer is becoming more and more inadequate. That is still a valid answer, but it has a very limited validity, simply because fewer and fewer fundamental decisions are taken in NATO bodies. The vast majority of decisions that have consequences for our NATO membership are taken elsewhere, and the decisions have been completed before Norway is given the opportunity to express its views at all when the matter is dealt with in NATO formal bodies. This means that we are facing a formidable challenge in rethinking our own safety situation. And let me add that this is not going to be perceived as if, on occasion, the 100th anniversary mark are only concerned with ourselves and our own security needs: for me, there is no contradiction between thinking about our own security needs and having up-to-date, forward-looking, adequate answers, and having an obligation to participate in solutions to regional conflicts in our own part of the world and in the whole of the world. It's in today's world two sides of the same thing. It's not either – or, it's a boat – and. I am convinced that if we find the appropriate answer to our own position in this picture and to meet our own security needs, we will also find the appropriate answers to Norway's possible efforts in the international community. The Minister of Foreign Affairs put great emphasis on what is happening in the United Nations in terms of reforming and updating the United Nations system, and that is all there is to it. It is essential not least that the Security Council is able to solve its role in the world community in a better, more efficient and not least faster way than is the case today. We cannot wait for a final reform of the composition of the Security Council, but we must look into the fact that at this point too, the lines converge. For the United Nations Security Council and the United Nations Security Council to be able to fulfil their mission, it is fundamental in the United Nations interest both that NATO has the sufficient capacity and organisation to perform military tasks on behalf of the United Nations, and, not least, that the European Union succeeds in creating a situation for the European Union that allows it to also increasingly assume this obligation on behalf of the United Nations. That is why I am looking at the debate we had in Stortinget just before Christmas on Norwegian participation in a joint effort force with Sweden and Finland, which is perhaps the most future-oriented we have been in in foreign policy debates in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e199	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e202	Prime Minister Bondevik suggested in the newspapers a few days ago a strong religious dimension in Norwegian foreign policy, a theme that was not mentioned in the Foreign Minister's statement. Now we have an expert on the theme of the Representative for Wage, similar to the Prime Minister. We who have no clear idea of what this religious dimension is, as long as he is not mentioned except in newspaper headlines from time to time, would like to see the right of the representative Wage as an expert in the field, together with the expert Prime Minister Bondevik, discuss this, so that wages can tell us what this religious dimension of Norwegian foreign policy is.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e207	Thank you for the opportunity. There is nothing more annoying about self-esteem than being appointed an expert! I think the representative Blankenburg has heard a little wrong when he talks about the ‘religious dimension’. What the Prime Minister has said several times is that we live in a world where very many political conflicts of interest are not only exposed to religious terminology, but are also fired through certain ways of appealing to people's religious feelings. Of that, the Prime Minister has drawn the logical and, at my discretion, reasonable conclusion that this must be taken seriously and not choose the secularised Western approach to pretend that it does not exist. Because it is entirely guaranteed the worst approach. That is why we also need to engage in real dialogue across religious boundaries in today's world, because it is one of the prerequisites for finding lasting political solutions to conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e214	If there is one thing that has been said about disunity between governments and within foreign policy, it is precisely the EU's business. I want to ask the representative's salary a question in relation to this. Norway, as a peace nation – and a true peace nation – will actively promote disarmament and seek to increase control of the international arms trade. Now, the Government proposes to increase the relationship with the EU in terms of EDA, an EU adaptation that will facilitate Norwegian arms exports and move Norway even more closely to an additional militarised EU. This is at a time when the Norwegian defence industry is in extreme growth and Norway is in a state of stagnation both when it comes to military consumption and arms exports. Is it not Right that this is a crime of what everyone has been told in foreign policy, namely that Norway should at least try to be a nation of peace?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e219	The term ‘military EU’ is misleading, even grossly misleading. Compared to EU Member States, Norway spends much more resources on military defence than any of the others do in relation to the size of its population. We have to be willing to admit that and not pretend to be different. Nor is Norwegian policy forced to engage in wider cooperation. I assume that what Jacobsen had in mind was the point of the Secretary of State's statement talking about cooperation on arms programmes in Europe. There is no pressure on Norway in any way. We will be just as free as we are today to decide our own defence and foreign policy. But what I stressed is that the EU is increasingly going to sit with the key when it comes to helping the United Nations solve its tasks, and that the Security Council can solve its tasks, and I believe that it must also make a certain impression on SV that Kofi Annan has said clearly and unequivocally and without prejudice to the fact that it is in the interests of the United Nations that the EU is doing what they are doing now, in relation to the Battle Groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e226	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e229	The Minister for Foreign Affairs began his presentation by telling us how important it is for the EEAS to strengthen Norway’s reputation internationally. It's hard to disagree that it's nice to have a good reputation. But if this is going to be one of the most important foreign service tasks, I am somewhat skeptical about it. During Tuesday's interpellation debate, we were able to highlight some of the enormous diplomatic challenges we face in our oceans, not least in relation to the Arctic. Through the tragic flood disaster in Asia, we learned the importance of a good and present consular service. We're experiencing a NATO changing, we're being affected by a bigger and stronger EU. There is no lack of challenges and diplomatic tasks. If you think that working for a good reputation brings us closer to good foreign policy solutions in other areas, it is an assessment it is possible to relate to. But if that's a correct assessment, we have to be allowed to ask for and have our doubts about. This, combined with the role of Norway as a peacemaker, gives reason to question what kind of foreign policy strategy underpins the work being done. In isolation, nothing is done wrong. On the contrary, Norwegian U.D. is doing a lot of good. But if that's what we're doing now, and to the extent that we're doing it, which is what's best for the nation of Norway, that's one of the challenges. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is promoting some fundamental values and interests in Norwegian foreign policy. These are good values and interests, and it's obviously not possible to set any of these values and interests up against each other. But it must be allowed to point out that some fundamental issues for us as a nation seem to be down priority for the benefit of others, perhaps more exciting tasks on other continents. The size of the Norwegian foreign service is not of such a nature that you can do everything as well. Prioritisation must take place, and what interests govern such a priority? After 100 years of own foreign policy, it might be time to reflect on what we do, and what we should do. It's not just that what we're doing, that many times is peripheral to our most central national challenges, but it's changing something about our entire foreign policy, and not least, it's doing something about the competences we're working on. Is our foreign service today well equipped for the heavy tasks that await us, not least when it comes to caring for our vital interests in the north and ensuring that Norway does not lose ground in the Arctic? We are experiencing a difficult situation as a result of NATO's changed role and the EU's growing appetite for foreign and security policy. For Norway, allies are crucial, but it cannot be that our defence and security tasks should be resolved exclusively in an alliance. Without our own credible defense, we have little to do with. Securing our own sovereignty and interests in peacetime is tasks we have to do on our own. It is not a realistic policy to downgrade defence in parallel with the fact that there is an uncertainty about our military alliance. It doesn't provide the security we should have. For example, do we have: a marine defence well-equipped for the tasks to be performed in our marine areas? The Secretary of State's presentation took us on a journey around the world where we were able to describe challenges, problems, potential conflicts and conflicts on several continents. Each of them was good analysis. But I miss a red thread. When and where do we get involved? How do we get involved? And most importantly, what is the goal of our commitment? Of course, factors such as the promotion of freedom, human rights and democracy lie as a governing hindrance, but I miss a vision, like result goals, and an assessment of boundaries for our commitment. Our efforts or lack of effort are often ad hoc. Of course, decisions of the UN Security Council play a heavy role in many situations, but we know that many times the UN is very late to enter into conflicts, and sometimes quite absent. In terms of action and efforts to further our objectives, they must be different in form, but not least for the outside world and anchoring in the Norwegian population, it could be possible to keep their targets high, without starting a new crusade. I will be able to comment on some of the concrete challenges that were addressed in the presentation. But first I would say that this winter, despite everything that is wrong, has been a great victory for democracy. The elections in Afghanistan, Iraq and Ukraine have all given hope to us who believe that democracy is important, not to say crucial for people to get a better daily life. So even though the setbacks are many, these choices point in the right direction. We support the work of democratic construction in Iraq and hope that we can start practical cooperation as early as possible. It is important to assist in this phase of democracy building, which is crucial for the future of Iraq. We also hope that the Stortinget, either directly or through some of the parliamentary networks we are participating in, will be able to assist the new Iraqi Parliament with practical cooperation. It was referred to the human rights dialogue with China, Indonesia and Vietnam, in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs has great faith. I'm afraid some countries here have found some kind of channelling criticism, and so they can get cheaper away in other ways. It has to be the results that count, and I'm not familiar with, for example. the dialogue with China has given results. Developments have gone from bad to worse for the duration of the dialogue. Reform of the UN is absolutely necessary, and we support the Government's assessments. We also believe that it is essential for the confidence of the UN to be brought to the ground in the allegations addressed to the organisation, in particular in relation to the oil for food programme. We as a significant contributor, especially to many of the UN programmes, must be able to use our muscles to demand reforms that promote the work, integrity and trust of the UN. Military participation in Sudan was recorded. There we have not changed our mind, and we believe that we should not participate in the military, as it is now proposed. We agree that we should respond positively to the request for special forces for a new mission in Afghanistan. The challenges in the country are great, and we know that the Norwegian forces are doing a formidable and good job. In the case of the nuclear threat from Iran and North Korea, there is a dark picture being drawn. North Korea appears to have achieved its goal and will now push the United States to the negotiating table. Iran plays cats and mice with the outside world and seeks as many concessions as possible for minimum transparency. So far, the dialogue with Iran has not produced results that enable us to feel secure. In parallel with what's going on in Iran, our Minister of Industry is going to Tehran with a business delegation. It is possible that a critical dialogue can be sensible, even with a regime such as that in Tehran, but developing friendly business relations with support from the Norwegian state is completely wrong. And it must be allowed to ask if we have a policy on Iran at all. The United States has imposed sanctions. We operate as if we were dealing with any democracy. Does the Foreign Minister think that what we are doing now in relation to Iran is to be clear? However, it was in this debate to hear the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, who was very clear about Iran. I appreciate that very much and also share the assessments Igland made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e264	I think it is interesting that the representative, Mr Höglund, did not affect the relationship between NATO and the United States and the development of defence policy in Europe. As we know from the political point of view of the Progress Party from the past, there is reason to ask if the Progress Party belongs. Do they hear the views of the United States that Europe needs to take greater care of its own security? And do they see what's happening in Europe? Increased European cooperation ensures defence and security policy in Europe, including through a joint action in NATO. Is it not time that the Progress Party also updates and nuances its assessments of where we, on the part of Norway, can have influence in favour of our own security? Or is it just because you've gone into such a box that Høglund shaded away from this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e271	These are not new issues. This is something I've taken up from this pulpit before. We see the development that is taking place, and we have to deal with it. Although we are not very excited that the EU has taken defence and security policy into account as a policy area, we must recognise that there we are. Of course, we must seek active cooperation in this direction, while ensuring that the relationship with the United States is as strong as possible. We have to act actively on it, and we can't hide from it. We have expressed that before, and we will of course actively follow this situation. If it is an EU membership debate the representative is trying to invite me to, it is not on the agenda for this big period. I understand that no parties have proposed, so there are other solutions that need to be put on the table. But yes, we see what's happening, and we'll relate to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e279	The representative, Højlund, lacks a red thread in the government's foreign policy. I think he meant a blue. However, I understand that what must be the blue thread, or the Progress Party, is in line with this, in the light of the developments taken up by the representative of Vallersnes, and which Mr Høglund said one must take care of, is that the Progress Party now has a very positive attitude towards Norwegian participation in the EU's forthcoming expressive forces and troops, which we have debated earlier, and that the Progress Party welcomes the fact that Norway is actively seeking closer cooperation with the EU in all these areas, defence and security policies, and that one also supports what the Government has now said about joining this defence industry agency in Europe. So I understand that the Progress Party is also merged into the concrete measures, not just the principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e284	Yes, we agree with the concrete measures, and there are a few concrete measures proposed in this statement. There are many things that could have been commented on, but the conditions in which we're obviously in agreement, we haven't commented, and we agree in this area. We have previously debated the European Union's armed forces, where we gave positive support. So in the concrete, practical areas of cooperation, we see that it is necessary to put in place precisely to ensure Norwegian security, and that we can have a closer link with the defence and security cooperation that is, after all, in the process of shaping in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e291	I note that the representative of the Progress Party wants to take seriously the situation that is about to arise, but it is a little difficult to get to grips with the way in which we want to address this development, where NATO is now becoming increasingly marginalised and the EU is playing a more offensive role. Could I have a comment on that? My question, however, is something else. I heard the conclusion, but the question is: Why does the Progress Party believe that Norway should not participate in Sudan, but in Afghanistan, in the pursuit of what is now a handful of Al Qaida terrorists and Taliban soldiers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e298	Now I think the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee responded very well to why Norway should continue to engage in Afghanistan. It's not a new commitment. This is something that has been going on for years. We're looking at it as a continuation of something we've been through for a while. Of course, you can discuss the scope and the device. Sudan will in the event of a new engagement. In isolation, we appreciate that we have helped to reach a peace agreement. And of course, we're happy that it has arisen. Nevertheless, we believe, after an assessment, that this is not natural for us to be involved with military forces. We make a priority between different countries in that area, and in that priority we have not chosen Sudan, but we put Afghanistan as a job no. 1 in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e305	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e308	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has given a comprehensive and thorough review of most of the most important foreign policy issues on the agenda in Norway, and that is a good starting point for the foreign policy debate here in the United Kingdom today. But since my time is a little more limited than that of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, first of all I should focus on two aspects. Other speakers from SV will come up with other issues. One is Norway's role in the development of the EU, NATO and the UN. It has become different, as the Foreign Minister says, after Gerhard Schröder has very clearly said that the future debate on Atlantic relations will go beyond NATO. NATO's role has become far less significant than before, and NATO does not have the same function as during the Cold War, of course. They have long looked for tasks to legitimise their own existence, even though the political map is so different, but NATO is not primarily the answer to tomorrow's challenges. It is strange that often in the debate in Stortinget and in the Norwegian public there is still a doubt that the basic plan of Norwegian security policy is NATO, when NATO is so much in the process of being marginalised. In SV we have said this repeatedly and in many contexts since the wall fell, and without special hearing, to say it mildly. Now the situation is different. The EU is the alternative for Germany, but the SV challenge to the Government and all other EU members in Norway is that until the yes-page actually promotes a proposal to reopen negotiations with the EU on membership and launch a new referendum, one must end with the grief of the lost battle of 1994 and look offensively at the opportunities Norway actually has outside the EU. I react when, in his statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs uses the expression that Norway can ‘be further marginalised’. We're not marginalized, unless we decide to be ourselves. The foreign minister must take a much more offensive view. Norway has three important options. One thing is clearer than today is to clean up the work we do in a number of areas such as the peace nation. Norway has made and makes an important effort in key conflicts, most recently in Sudan, and in Sri Lanka. I can mention a lot more. There is a job that we can do with greater flexibility outside the EU than as a Member State. Not many weeks have passed since Javier Solana confirmed this in the Official Journal of Bergen and said that if Norway had been a member of the European Union, we should of course have coordinated this with other EU countries. That's one point. The second is that we have an opportunity for more bilateral cooperation and for thinking more security-policy alliances based on the interests we have in the North, and where we have common interests not with the whole of NATO and not with the whole of the EU, but with many countries in the region. We have common interests with the other Nordic countries and with Germany, the United Kingdom and, of course, the United States – at least in part. We also have interests in relation to Russia, Canada and Iceland. Here we can have a much more offensive attitude to what are our greatest challenges in the future, and what opportunities you have to cooperate. The third is, of course, the matter of Norway as a peace nation, namely that we must be the country that always insists on having a United Nations-led world order where conflict prevention is the most important. There is nothing that can be more effective in terms of saving suffering and distress than being able to prevent wars that might happen. We have these opportunities, and I would like to see them a little encouraged while waiting, if necessary, for the yes-page to take up a new EU battle. What I'm going to talk about is the situation in Afghanistan. Because it is quite obvious that if you fail in Afghanistan in the years to come, you will also fail in the fight against terrorism. It will be of great importance not only in relation to that region, but to the whole world. Here's also what's new in the paper, because here the government announces that you want to contribute directly under Operation Enduring Freedom, but it doesn't come out of the statement with what kind of special forces, and how many soldiers it's really about. SV has had a small delegation in Afghanistan recently, and that was for two reasons, firstly because we want to focus a political focus on the situation in Afghanistan ahead and commit ourselves not to forget them, although perhaps the world press and the superpowers direct their attention elsewhere. The second was to look at what kind of effort Norway is making in ISAF. We have almost 400 personnel in ISAF, and it is important for us to have an insight into what kind of work they have. The main efforts made by ISAF and the Norwegian soldiers are to maintain security in parts of Kabul and in an area in the north called Mahmud-e. ISAF is expanding, and there is no doubt that the mission is being carried out partly in cooperation with the OEF, i.e. Operation Enduring Freedom, because ISAF does not have control of airspace. That's the Operation Enduring Freedom that has. The ISAF forces in total consist of soldiers from 38 countries, much more than NATO, who have been assigned by the United Nations, and have about half as many as the American soldiers who make up Operation Enduring Freedom. ‘Enduring Freedom’, in my understanding, has a very low activity in terms of bombing and air operations. They now have mainly combatants or special forces in the region against the Pakistani border, where there are still groups that can significantly threaten the security of Afghanistan and other countries. In the opinion of the SV, participation in ISAF is different from making Norwegian special forces available under US command. There may be a challenging debate in the future if we move towards a greater pooling of ISAF and Enduring Freedom. It can give rise to major balance and power challenges, in a situation where the American soldiers will be twice as many as the total number of soldiers from 38 countries, and where the nature of the missions will be different. There is no doubt that Operation Restoring Freedom has a much higher risk factor than ISAF currently has. In the SV's view, ISAF performs an important and absolutely necessary job. The Norwegian soldiers do this consciously and with a thoughtful view of how to serve the local population. The job done in relation to security is absolutely necessary for a political solution and for civilian progress in Afghanistan. However, what you hear, both from them and from everyone else present in Afghanistan now, is that there is no military solution in Afghanistan in the long term. It's not like the military can do anything but keep a security situation. The main focus, including in the Norwegian debate, must be on how to support policy solutions in a country where large parts of the funds available are donations from abroad and where, in many important and important areas, there are no plans for what should actually lead to progress. If the common Afghan does not see that there is an opportunity to obtain an outcome; a future where one can cultivate the earth and live from it, many will in the long run go back to the warlords who are now hoping to defeat. There may also be a completely different situation because some warlords give up and become disarmed, while it pop up militias for sale almost to anyone as an alternative for those who find no other outcome. So the security situation is very difficult. Therefore, the Norwegian debate should not focus primarily on what we contribute to the military, even if we are going to continue to engage in ISAF. The main focus should be that we must commit ourselves to aid to Afghanistan over the years. There is a situation where people lack completely the necessary access to water and the possibility of cultivation. Opium production has taken a dramatic turn. These are economical plans for electricity in rural areas. It's hard to see that now life is moving forward, we're on our way to civil rule. There are also very great challenges about what should be a parliamentary election, where there are many conflicts about how the electorate should look, who makes elections, etc. Many things have to fall into place in Afghanistan in the future. We are making an important effort in the ISAF forces we are currently participating in, but our main focus must be where the military's main focus is, namely that we cannot have a military solution in Afghanistan. There has to be a progress where people see that they have an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e347	I have no question. I just want to highlight the following: Kristin Halvorsen now really argued that the ISAF strength and operation «Enduring Freedom» are related. ISAF could not have been in Afghanistan without the mandate of the United Nations to Operation Enduring Freedom. ISAF controls and has secured only a small part of Afghanistan. It's because you haven't been able to go into other areas yet. Therefore, the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation is still necessary. That's really what she said. So I want to say, when she says that NATO is no longer the answer: does SV go in order for us to get rid of the only multinational military structure that exists that the UN can draw on? The alternative is another military structure, the United States alone. If you want a multilateral military engagement anywhere now, it's NATO that has done the job in the Balkans, and they're doing it in Afghanistan through ISAF. I am totally in favour of peace exposure in Sri Lanka, the Middle East and Sudan, but we have not managed to create peace. This may indicate that we also need to involve other heavy actors in that peacemaking work, and then we just have to look at the organisations that SV is either in favour of or will close down.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e356	It is true that Operation Enduring Freedom is part of the military participation in Afghanistan and that ISAF has no – what to say – contributions in the airspace above 2000 feet above ground. It's obvious that in those contexts where you need to show muscles, and which require heavy planes and bombers, it's Operation Enduring Freedom that can stand for it. But I believe that that business is of a very modest degree today, and that the Operation Enduring Freedom primarily carries out are fighting acts on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. In fact, there is something different than saying that this is what Norway should prioritise and contribute to. In the opinion of SV, it is important that we concentrate our efforts on ISAF. There we have an important contribution to make, and that is what Norway should focus on. Then I think it must be possible to get a slightly more nuanced NATO debate even in the Norwegian big deal. It's probably not exactly in this line I can get to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e363	It was an elegant rounding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e367	I would like to contribute to the fact that the representative Halvorsen is given the opportunity to continue where she left off. I noticed that she started her speech by giving her full and unreserved support to the Foreign Minister's description of the epoch shift that is taking place in Europe and in European policy. But then I must confess with shame that I had problems following the thread. For the further answer, it was really all about problematizing the role of NATO. It is not surprising now, because SV’s predecessor was opposed to Norway joining NATO, and the party has constantly been programmed for Norway to leave NATO. As far as I have understood, the programme for the next enlargement period also envisages adopting Norway's exit from NATO. But then there will be one contribution back from the SV, namely to clean up the role as a peace nation. I want to know what that role really is, and how do you think Norway should take care of its own security?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e372	In relation to the discussion about NATO: Yes, SV's opinion is that NATO should have been put down with the Warsaw Pact after the end of the Cold War. Then the historical significance of NATO was obvious, and the security policy map was so different. What is now the biggest challenge ahead for Norway in terms of security policy is closer cooperation with other countries in the region with which we have common security policy interests. It's not primarily military interests, it's just as much about energy, about climate and environment – all these challenges. I do not expect Inge Wohnung, with its background from the European Movement, to be the first in the fight to exploit Norway's opportunities outside the EU, but let us try to do so, then. Because we should simply get more of the attitude of Gro Harlem Brundtland, who – the day after the previous EU defeat on the yes side – just sprang up and released again. It has very little impacted Norwegian yes-page. We have some opportunities outside the EU that we should take advantage of. I would like to invite Inge Wohnung to join in, even if I do not expect him to go first.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e377	I'm a little worried about some of the expressions that come here. There are obviously some who will make NATO weaker – and give expression to the weakening of NATO. I think that's a completely wrong production. NATO is not weakened. And NATO doesn't get any more weakened than what we do to it. The more we say it, and the more people say it, the more truth it becomes. That's not right. It does not help if some European leaders also go around saying that, they have completely different agendas. So I think we'll be careful to use that expression in the future. SV talks a lot about what's going on out there, that's pretty much what's occupying them. But what is SV's view of Norwegian domestic security policy? The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee thought I drew up a very interesting case. This concerns Russia's access to the sea and our northern regions. It'll be one of the most important things we'll be facing in the future. What is SV's Northern Region Policy? How does SV intend to solve this? SV is against NATO, they are against the EU, and they are against the United States. Should we set up alone with our small capacities – as SV has done everything we can to achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e384	That the representative of the Advance Party is a little worried, that's how the world should be. He should be more concerned about Schröder's assessment of the future division of labour between the EU and NATO than about the SV's description of the world of reality. But if the Progress Party wants to celebrate NATO tomorrow, dinner and evening as they really become less and less dominant with regard to the security issues we face in the future, so much for us. It belongs where it is. So the questions about the northern regions. This is the main focus Norway should have in its security policy. This is the responsibility that we have on behalf of the whole of Europe and the whole of the world community in terms of how we are managing the land, but also the sea areas, which are seven times greater than the Norwegian land areas, where we have enormous resources that we are responsible for managing for the future. That is why we have just had this focus in defence policy, that consideration for the north is our concern. 1 in the field of security policy. Then we can discuss what else we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e391	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e394	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough and good presentation. The very central themes and areas of conflict that characterise our foreign policy. For the Christian People's Party, there are just many of these values and interests that should and should shape Norway's foreign policy. We need to secure Norway's security. We must contribute to peace, democracy and human rights in countries and regions characterised by conflict and abuse of power. We must fight poverty internationally. Norway must contribute to stability in Europe, we must strengthen the UN and other international organisations, and we must help to meet the global environmental challenges we face. The starting point for our policies must be human dignity and human rights. These can only be stabilized through peace, democracy and the principles of the rule of law, as well as fair national and international distribution. The Christian People's Party is pleased that peace building is a priority for the Government. In Africa, many countries have been affected by violent conflict, but recent developments have shown that working for peace is beneficial. Many wars and violent conflicts in Africa have ended. In 1994, 28 states were parties, or recently parties, to an armed conflict. In 2002, there were only six wars across borders and eight civil wars. In addition to the positive developments in Sudan, Congo and Angola, the figures will show a very positive trend. Our Minister for Development is in Sudan these days to discuss the implementation of the recently concluded peace agreement. The peace agreement is very fragile, and the ongoing conflict in Darfur could jeopardize the agreement. There are also people on both sides of the conflict who do not want a peace agreement. The agreement cannot be implemented without significant international efforts, and Norway has to come forward here. The UN will deploy a force of about 10,000 soldiers, in addition to 755 police officers. Now that we want to contribute 30 officers to the UN forces in Sudan, this must be a minimum. Nor should it be the case that our possible contribution to Afghanistan is at the expense of soldiers to the UN peace-supporting operation in Sudan. We have to wait for feedback from the UN on what more Norway can actually contribute. Norway also needs to set up in a proper way at the donor country conference. A lot of money is needed for reconstruction. The UN relief coordinator for Sudan, de Silva, believes there is an urgent need for approximately SEK 3.9 billion for reconstruction in South Sudan. So far, it's just come in, well, 5 pst. of this amount. Now the world community must show in practice that the willingness to help people in need was not limited to those who were affected by the tsunami. It must not be the poorest in Sudan who pay the bill for the flood disaster. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentioned the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea. Here, from the Norwegian side, we must help to achieve reconciliation and a lasting solution to the border conflict. That also applies to Uganda. Here, positive developments have stopped in recent years, and the gross violations of human rights are very worrying. The African Union launched the Pan-African Parliament in 2004 and its own Peace and Security Council. These new bodies allow organisations to work more actively for peace and security in Africa. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that the Minister of Foreign Affairs wants to strengthen Norway's cooperation with the African Union. The Christian People's Party is very pleased with the truce between Israel and the Palestinian authorities, and we are cautiously optimistic about the hope of peace in the Middle East. Both Sharon and Abbas are talking about a new era after the summit in Sharm el Sheikh, and that the time of violence is over. Just the time will show if they're right. The Middle East leaders must now transform the hope of peace we see into concrete action. On the Palestinian side, we expect Abbas to do everything he can to stop acts of terror. The Palestinian authorities must also comply with reform and fight against corruption. Israel, on its side, must complete the promised withdrawal of Israeli settlers from Gaza during the year. The parties must return to the Roadmap for Peace and start negotiations on the final status of Palestine, Palestinian refugees, the status of Jerusalem and settlements. The killing of former Prime Minister Hariri in Lebanon was very regrettable. It is to hope that this will not contribute to a change in the peaceful development we have seen in Lebanon after all. The elections in Iraq have created optimism. The Shia Muslim Association won the election, and they seek cooperation with the Kurds and Prime Minister Allawi. The main task of the new elected representatives is to establish a new constitution. It is problematic that so many Sunniers chose, or not dare, to vote. Some rebel groups are now threatening more violence and uncertainty in the country. The situation in Iraq is therefore still troubled, and it will continue to need assistance for reconstruction. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the work of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. The uncertainty surrounding Iran's nuclear programmes is therefore serious. In the last few weeks, the United States has pushed Iran further, but refused to have an invasion on the agenda for the time being. There is no doubt that the situation is very serious, and the authorities are breaking many human rights, but going to an invasion will be a major step backwards. We need to find a political solution to the Iran issue, and then it is also important to support democratic forces in Iran. Norway has given priority to peacekeeping in Afghanistan, and we must therefore be prepared if necessary. The Christian People's Party is basically in favour of Norway contributing further in Afghanistan, because it is important that NATO succeeds in stabilising society and that ISAF continues its expansion. However, we need further information on the magnitude, mission and involvement of the forces. As mentioned earlier, new strengths must not be set against our contribution to Sudan. Another issue that we need to take very seriously is drug production in Afghanistan. It threatens the entire stability of society. It affects us directly in Norway, as almost all the heroin here comes from Afghanistan. We cannot be known to leave the country from the Taliban terrorist regime to the terror regime of the drug mafia! This is where further involvement is needed. In the case of South Asia, there is a hopeful development, which the Foreign Affairs Committee could also observe during its visit to India and Pakistan in January. Given that the conflict between the two countries, concerning Kashmir, is one of the most dangerous in the world, among other things. It is therefore gratifying that, in meeting yesterday’s Pakistani counterpart, India’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, Natwar Singh, announced that a bus route to be established between Muzaffarabad and Srinagar should be opened so that cashmere people can visit each other freely on both sides of the control line. This is a joyous development that over time will be able to change social, political and economic life. Many have not seen close family members in decades. I think this is a confidence building measure that gives hope, and hope that Norway will be able to support the process in the best possible way. The aim must be to promote democracy and human rights in Kashmir, and that representatives of the Kashmiri people can also participate in the process. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the elections in Iraq, Afghanistan, Ukraine and the Palestinian region have contributed to the progress of democracy. What we have to remember is that democracy is not being adopted, it is being created. In a simple way, democracy is not about building a house, but about creating a home. These include: the Norwegian parties through the Norwegian Centre for Democratic Support a central actor in order to provide support to developing democracies. Ukraine has taken an important step towards democracy and opened itself up to Europe, but much remains before it can be said to be a consolidated democracy. For Yushchenko to succeed, international support is needed. The Christian People's Party is deeply concerned about the situation in Belarus with Lukashenko's authoritarian leadership and human rights violations. We are also very concerned about the human rights situation in Moldova. The Christian People's Party also wants to strengthen the religious dialogue in peacemaking. Prime Minister Bondevik has suggested that there should be an additional dimension in Norwegian foreign policy. We think that is necessary and correct. In China, human rights violations are still reported. The Christian People's Party believes that other states are too cautious in their criticism of the human rights situation in the country, and that many abuses persist. In China, the judicial system is very weak and politicized, and every year thousands are executed and tortured. An example of China’s brutal policy was that it also exerts violence against Vietnamese fishermen. The BBC recently reported that on 8 January 2005 Chinese police fleets shot down Vietnamese fishermen on four fishing boats in the common Beibu Gulf fishing area at the North Vietnam Sea. A total of nine fishermen were killed with shots, seven were injured, and eight were arrested. The last eight persons have not yet been released. This is a violation of both human rights and the principles of international maritime law. I think it is important that Norway protests in such cases. Media is also being controlled. Recently, we saw that over 12,000 Internet cafés were closed. Throughout China, more people are being persecuted for their faith. This is particularly true of Muslims from Xinjiang, Buddhists from Tibet, practitioners of Falun Gong and many Christians. The Christian People's Party wants Norway to continue to criticise these violations in its human rights dialogue with China, and we want the Government to put further pressure on the country to respect freedom of belief, organisation and expression. As for the inmates of Guantanamo Bay, the Christian People's Party believes that they must be brought before a court that meets international standards for fair trial, without access to the death penalty. If this does not happen, they must be released. The statements by Chancellor Schröder that NATO is no longer the primary forum in which the transatlantic parties discuss and coordinate their policies can be worrying for Norway. But we must not forget that NATO has 26 Member States. The fact that from time to time opinions come from the United States — and now Germany — does not change the NATO Treaty or Norway’s access to NATO’s various bodies. I think it is completely unnecessary to dramatize such statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e439	The size has not been treated long since the development message. I then asked the Christian People's Party why they wouldn't be involved in investigating alternative forms of global taxation for income for the United Nations system. Since then, it has been the World Economic Forum in Davos, where a global distribution was on the agenda. There the President of France, Jacques Chirac, proposed an international tax in the fight against AIDS. Chirac mentioned the specific charge on air tickets, the charge on fuel for air or maritime transport or on financial transactions as examples of ways of establishing the new tax. At the Johannesburg Summit in 2002, too, Chirac launched a call for solidarity taxes on wealth created by globalisation. At that time, Development Minister Frafjord Johnson played out that it was a diversion from the French. I want to ask the representative Rise what is the Christian People's Party's view of what Chirac has now addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e448	We had so far completed the discussion on the Development Communication, but I think it is positive that development policy issues are also put on the agenda in the debate on the Foreign Minister's presentation. The Christian People's Party is concerned with all the problems that President Chirac raised in Davos. But we know that this has been investigated and seen many times, and that was the background for not wanting to comment on this in connection with the setting of the development message. It has proved very difficult to implement what President Chirac proposes. I may find it difficult to wonder what motives lie behind, but in the francophone cooperation – France has extensive cooperation with all French-speaking former colonies – it is clear that there is a strong pressure towards France to propose this again and again. But we have, as I said, no faith in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e462	The representative Rise took up his post, among others. the capture treatment in Cuba, at the Guantanamo base, operated by the United States. He believed that there had to be a move in getting the prisoners to trial, and those who did not come to trial had to be released. It is all right, but I think that in that debate there is a little more visibility – that there are also other prisoners under the auspices of the United Nations, among others. in Rwanda. Many have been sitting for over ten years without law and judgment, and many are innocent. I think we should pay some attention to these, and perhaps even look to get out of there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e470	Let me give the representative Stensaker honor for his commitment to Rwanda. It shows that sometimes it really does matter that you send big business representatives to Africa who see wrongs and human rights violations with their own eyes, and that it creates an engagement. I fully agree with this point: we must address this. When the Foreign Minister has said in his statement that he wants closer cooperation with the African Union, I think it might be a good platform, where we can address just such questions. I know that the Minister for Development and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are both concerned with these issues, so I think this might be a good reminder to address this issue in the African Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e477	The exposure rule for former Norwegian Special Force Contributions to the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation has been that if Norwegian soldiers come into contact with anyone taken prisoner of war, they shall be handed over to the United States of America. The US prison treatment is a rather sad chapter, with many abuses, both in Afghanistan and to the extent of Guantanamo. The United States of America is in violation of the views of the Government and Rise on how prisoners of war are to be treated. Nevertheless, we have been willing to deliver prisoners of war to the United States if the situation arises. Can the representative Rise guarantee that Norway does not contribute to prisoners of war experiencing illegal treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e486	I think it is very good that SV addresses the search light against violations of human rights, and in particular against the treatment of prisoners of war. I would like to remind you that we have repeatedly spoken from the Norwegian side. It has, among other things, Mr Bondevik was directly involved in talks between Prime Minister Bondevik and President Bush, where protests have been made against the U.S. Seizure. I feel absolutely confident that Norway will of course not contribute to prisoners of war being subjected to human rights violations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e491	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e494	The Central Party would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the presentation. There was a broad explanation, which was within many themes. In the light of time, I just want to focus on some of them. I'm starting in Sudan. The Government shall definitely be in favour of its contribution to the peace process in Sudan. Patient and long-term work combined with wise alliance building with individuals, with groups and organisations, has been the key to Norway’s constructive contribution. Despite the fact that there are still worrying messages from Darfur, we must be pleased with the peace agreement signed in Nairobi on 9 January and that it is expected that the Security Council will soon adopt a resolution on the establishment of a peace-supporting operation in the country. The more disappointing it is that the Government only proposes that Norway participate with a military contribution of 30 people. The fact that a small number of police advisers are also considered for the operation does little to help. In the past, the size of the population has been concerned that Norway should contribute materially to the situation in Sudan. What this is added up to from the Norwegian side can hardly be said to be substantive. In fact, we expect it to be made clear in the course of the day that Norway is going to make a significantly greater effort. Norway has made a very good contribution in Sudan. We are deeply involved in the peace process. It will therefore not be understood, either in Sudan or in the donor environment as a whole, unless Norway follows up the implementation of the agreement that has actually been adopted. A contribution of 30 people will, in our opinion, be embarrassing for Norway, which cashers bring a lot of attention to its policy contribution to the process. The government's proposal that we should only participate with 30 people in Sudan cannot be seen in any other way than that there is a clear depriority of Africa and definitely of the UN. It is very significant that the Government proposes a new contribution to the US-led ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation in Afghanistan in the same breath as a desiccated Sudan with 30 persons to an operation of a total of more than 10 000. It appears almost as a déjà vu what is now happening, when we remember that the Government refused to sit down with personnel in Congo after a request from the UN Secretary-General, while deciding to send military forces to Iraq. Norway currently has a government that systematically downgrades the United Nations' peacekeeping work. There is reason to ask whether the Government continues to believe that the UN should be a cornerstone of Norwegian foreign policy, or whether we have also received a new bad course for Norway in this area. The basis for this issue is underpinned by the willless review of the Government's view of the reform proposals of the UN High Level Panel by the Minister of Foreign Affairs – I allow myself to say. Is it really the case that the Government has no idea of or proposals for the operationalisation of the very general considerations presented as Norway's position in the statement? I really challenge the Foreign Minister to elaborate, for example. how Norway believes that efforts should be made to strengthen the UN’s response to state-building, how to contribute to the operationalisation of the UN’s response to conflict resolution. When it is said that the UN will intervene in earlier conflicts, we must, of course, also expect to have some thoughts and plans on how to do this. I am amazed that this is not mentioned in the statement. I challenge the Foreign Minister to say something about it, because the UN is constantly plagued by celebrations and generalizations. The UN needs countries that are at the forefront, not least now in relation to putting in place the important reform process it has set up. But we have a government that apparently does not have ambitions in the face of the United Nations, which does not have ambitions to contribute to the operationalisation of the general objectives that the United Nations now really needs. Norway has the opportunity to be an apex, to show the way. It is a pity that the government has chosen these options. In the case of new Norwegian contributions to Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan, we will come back to some specific questions related to its operation today, both in terms of tasks, exposure rules and command structures. Now let me just underline the obvious, namely that the international community has a significant responsibility to get Afghanistan back on track. It is very long before we have a satisfactory situation in Afghanistan, and we just have to admit that this is a very long-term effort. From the Centre Party's point of view, it would be much easier to support a new contribution to the functions of Enduring Freedom if the operation had been under NATO control. In the past, we have come to understand that it was in the hope that Enduring Freedom would also be under NATO control, and I will challenge the Foreign Minister to say a little more than what was said in the statement, about how he looks forward to Revising Freedom in relation to NATO. It would also be interesting to get a closer look at why the government is now giving priority to Enduring Freedom and not ISAF. I look forward to getting a closer look at these things. That being said, it is quite correct, as the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee said, that Enduring Freedom and ISAF are interdependent. And I'm asking the exact same questions about SV's principal line in relation to this that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee asked. It is a fact that on the ground in practical politics it is such that ISAF and Enduring Freedom hang together. To a completely different point, and that is the WTO. Trade policy is an important part of the foreign minister’s portfolio, and there is often little time to discuss it. The government has taken the salmon conflict with the EU to the WTO. That's good. The question is whether it was done too late. There is no doubt that the farming sector is important for Norway in general, it is important for District Norway, and it is absolutely necessary that the industry and the authorities find solutions together. We have ended up in an unfortunate situation in relation to the EU at this point. It is not least because the government has led a very unwise policy in relation to the farming industry. And it hasn't lacked any warnings, either from the political environment or from the industry. The government has suspended feed quotas, which means that there is no capacity to limit production, as previously foreseen. You've put out 50 new concessions. This has led to a fear in the EU that the market will be flooded by Norwegian salmon, and the shots say directly that it was precisely this fear that was the basis for the action that one now started. This underlines an important point, namely the strong and direct link between national policies and how this is met in international reality, and illustrates how closely domestic policy and foreign policy are woven together. I had expected something more to be said about the WTO in the statement that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had two days ago. Important negotiations are taking place in the WTO, and I will only end by asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs when the Storting can expect to get a statement on the developments in the WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e520	I agree with the leader of the Central Party on one point, namely that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had a broad and comprehensive approach to the global challenges. You can't blame Haga for that in the post she just made. On the other hand, there was a considerable willingness to generalise on an unusually narrow basis, because most of the article was about – if I understood it correctly – one thing that is important, namely the question of how many Norway are going to contribute to a possible operation in Sudan. On that basis, Åslaug Haga used very strong terms: ‘punishment for Norway’, ‘systematically deprioritises the United Nations’s peacekeeping work’. It is with respect to report absolutely no reason on such a strange basis to bring so violent characteristics. So I'll almost allow myself to ask the representative Åslaug Haga to withdraw these characteristics.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e525	I said when I started my post, that I wanted to focus on some elements, and that's what I did. In relation to this government's efforts towards the UN, I know everything I have said. It is very regrettable that Norway does not deal with the UN peacekeeping operations in a way that we have traditionally done. I've got per. not a full overview of how many personnel we have in the UN peacekeeping operations, but at some point in 2003/transition 2004 there was 27. To me it bears witness that we have a government that does not prioritize the UN peacekeeping operations. It is regrettable for a country that has traditionally believed that the UN should be one of the cornerstones of our foreign policy. And it's very difficult to see, when you're not prepared to contribute to what's a very central part of the UN's core activity, namely the peacekeeping side, that you don't contribute to a down-priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e532	It was a pleasure to hear the recognition given by the representative Haga to the work done in Sudan, before we got a complete counter-turn in relation to the strength contribution now given. The UN has not only asked for strengths, it has also asked for financial contributions. It's made clear that it's 5 pst. which has been given. Norway is one of the largest contributors. Is that not part of the overall assessment? And does not the representative Haga totally lack an assessment of whether we are now in the United Nations, or whether we are on the United Nations recommendation? Because when it applies to all the forces we're in, whether it's in Afghanistan or elsewhere, we're there at the United Nations' request, not as a United Nations force, but we're there at the UN's request. Doesn't the representative Haga think there's reason to nuance something here, even if we have a common desire to be occupied by the UN?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e541	I want to make one point clear, and that point is that if Norway is to appear to be the defender of the UN that I believe many in this Chamber actually want us to appear as, and as I am absolutely sure that the representative Lilletun wants us to appear as, it must also have implications for how we prioritise financial resources, but also on how we choose to give priority to having personnel abroad. And the fact that we now barely have people under UN command, clearly helps send a signal to the outside world. As far as Sudan is concerned, there is no doubt that Norway, which has played such a central role and which has made such a significant contribution to the political process, is not prepared to take a stand on the actual implementation, which then takes place under the auspices of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e546	NATO is now being put under debate by Germany, which will put NATO on the operating table. It's time! Many people think that the patient has been dying for a long time. But the centre party is, like most here in this room, especially concerned with NATO's health status. How does the representative assess Haga NATO’s forecasts in relation to an enlarged EU that is now trying to coordinate its security and foreign policy? Does the representative Haga believe that this help from EU countries will bring the NATO patient alive down from the operating table? Or does Haga think that this development must mean that Norway is looking after other more natural cooperation countries in security policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e554	It's quite fascinating to see how this statement from Schröder has made the impression on a number of people. I think that statement has made an impression on a number of people because they see themselves profiting from it in the domestic political debate. Yes, in Norway, the use of Schröder’s opinions is beneficial in this way in relation to the domestic debate. I don't think we're going to take this as more than what it actually is. I feel that there are a lot of people who actually see ghosts at daylight in relation to this. I can't see that something dramatic has happened in the relationship between the EU and NATO in the later period that was supposed to indicate that we are getting this debate in as high an order as we have had in the later days. So I have to say that I am calling for audacity in relation to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e561	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e564	The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave us a very good and broad presentation, and I join the main lines of this. Norway shall appear as a modern cultural and knowledge nation, a nation that manages its natural resources sustainably, and a nation engaged internationally in peace and development. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is drawing up the line from 1905 and how the challenges of foreign policy have changed. We are now totally dependent on international commitments. Our security, well-being and not least our environment depend on international rules of play that must be followed. The flood disaster in Southeast Asia showed us how small the world has become, how dense we live today, and how a huge natural disaster on the other side of the earth can hit us here at home in such a harsh and brutal way. I feel confident that the review of the administration's management carried out by the Investigation Committee will lead to good proposals that can help make us even better equipped to face these kinds of crises in the future. We probably have to take inwards that something could have been done differently, sail if many people contributed and made a very great effort of which it stands respect. The elections in Iraq were a victory for democracy in the country. The Iraqi people showed their backs by meeting up at the polls in spite of threats of violence and terrorism. The elections also showed clearly the resistance of the Iraqi people to the occupying power and the regime of the prisoners. This is a clear signal that the United States and the other countries must take on board further efforts to build a stable, peaceful and democratic Iraq. In developing a new constitution for the country, it is also important that all ethnic groups in Iraq participate. In particular, it is important to ensure the participation of Sunni Muslims, despite their not actively participating in the elections. I am pleased that Norway has consistently concluded on the political process in Iraq, as adopted by the UN Security Council. With regard to Norwegian business involvement in Iraq, this is a two-sided issue. On the one hand, it is positive both for Norway and for Iraq if, with our competence, especially in the field of petroleum, we can contribute to a positive development in the country. On the other hand, we have seen examples of American companies obtaining contracts in Iraq that have been called into question in retrospect. When businesses operate in as unstable a society as Iraq, they make even greater demands both on social responsibility and ethical considerations. I assume that Norwegian companies that want to act in Iraq are aware of this. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also welcomed the fact that the elections in Afghanistan, Ukraine and Palestine have been a confirmation of people’s will for democracy. In Ukraine, strong popular commitment resulted in a choice in which democracy and openness prevailed over corruption and the rule of few men. The scenes we saw in Kiev reminded me of the fall of the Berlin Wall and the Iron Curtain on November 9th. It is now important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, to strengthen Ukraine's ties with the rest of Europe. One of the first President Justshenko said after his inauguration was that Ukraine too now has a long-term goal of becoming a member of the European Union. The elections in Afghanistan were also a victory for democracy. I am pleased that Norway contributed both economic and security forces to the implementation of this election. However, stable democracy in Afghanistan is well ahead of us. One main challenge, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, is the increase in drug production in the country. The international community must contribute if it is to meet this challenge. With President Abbas' election victory in Palestine, there is a renewed hope of starting a process against peace in the Middle East. Let's all hope the meeting in Sharm el Sheikh contributes to a real truce and thus to a full Israeli withdrawal and evacuation of the Jewish settlements in Gaza. However, a prerequisite for peace is an Israeli recognition that it is not possible to achieve peace by walling people inside. The continuation of the construction of the wall by the Israelis is certainly a feature of the development of the region that gives the least hope for the future. We should have come to the historic recognition that building walls between countries does not resolve conflicts, rather on the contrary. It took 50 years to break down the wall that divided Europe. We have to do everything in our power to avoid the wall that now literally separates the Israelis and the Palestinians being standing for the same duration. A supporter of Norwegian foreign policy is, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, internationally committed cooperation. The UN marks its 60th anniversary this year. In our days, 60-year-olds must also be prepared to endure changes and reforms. The left supports Norwegian support for the United Nations High Level Panel's reform proposal. The UN is the only dangerous path to lasting peace and stability in the world. It is therefore essential for the legitimacy of the United Nations to change its composition and its functioning. The left supports the extension of the Security Council to a new category of Member States. The veto rights of the major countries should be weakened so that two veto chambers are required to block a decision. The Security Council must be able to give a mandate to intervene in order to prevent serious violations of human rights and to prevent genocide. At the same time, the United Nations apparatus for leading and coordinating international forces and actions needs to be strengthened. In some cases, the UN must be able to assume responsibility for governing a war-torn land area until elections have been held and law and order established. In addition, the left had seen Norway support for the proposal to set up a Peace Building Commission under the Security Council, thus strengthening the work on prevention and post-conflict reconstruction. Several of the conflicts in Africa are very serious and involve great human suffering. The attention of the media is not directed towards these areas, which makes it all the more important that the world community contributes. I am pleased to note that Norway is making a significant contribution to resolving the conflicts in both Sudan, Uganda, Ethiopia and Eritrea. In addition to the efforts of the Norwegian authorities in terms of both military contributions to the ceasefire in Sudan, the organisation of the donor country conference for Sudan and Norwegian military observers in Ethiopia and Eritrea, voluntary efforts in the region from Norwegian non-governmental organisations are important. They do important and useful work to stop human suffering, which they deserve. It is also gratifying to see the increased contribution to peace and security provided by the region. The African Union has established its own Peace and Security Council and the organisation cooperates closely with the UN. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister says he wants to strengthen our cooperation with the African Union. A strong regional organisation in Africa is important, which can contribute both to peace and democracy building in the long term and contribute to an increased standard of living in the region. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says that NATO is a ‘fundamental plank in our foreign and security policy’. The United States and Europe have a tradition of standing together. In the context of NATO cooperation, there is an important dialogue between Europe and the United States, and this dialogue has become more important since the enlargement of NATO in Eastern Europe and in Central Europe. That is why there are worrying signals when the German Chancellor now says that NATO is no longer the framework for the important transatlantic dialogue on security policy, but that it is the dialogue between the EU and the United States. Such developments could place Norway on the outside of what has so far been our main security policy anchoring. On the other hand, we are taking part in the establishment of a common Nordic response force within the framework of the Common European Security and Defence Policy. Norwegian participation in the EU's defence and security policy dimension, including in the European Defence Agency, will allow us to participate more fully in that dialogue and in the consultations that are now taking place within that framework. Norway is outside the EU, but we still have close and close cooperation with the EU in several areas. If we in the Left do not want Norwegian membership of the EU, we are concerned that cooperation with the EU is – and remains – close and good. Developments in the EU are of major importance for Norwegian foreign policy. But it is positive that Turkish membership is under negotiation, and that Croatia, Macedonia and also Ukraine are aiming for membership. I look forward to the discussion we are going to have in Stortinget when, in a short time, the government is presenting a big message about the northern regions. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that developments take place in a sustainable way. Environmental and resource management issues in a highly vulnerable and valuable natural area represent an important way forward for the future. Issues related to international climate commitments and the exploitation of large natural resources in perhaps one of our most important food facilities, the Barents Sea, are a question we in the Left are looking forward to the Stortinge being involved in and discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e599	The Foreign Minister’s statement was based on Norway’s independence in 1905 in the international community. But he, in the view of the Coastal Party, too little emphasis was placed on how important this independence has been in order to be able to play a positive role in the international community. He also places too little emphasis on how important this independence has been to ensure that the economic benefits of our rich natural resources have benefited the Norwegian people. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is quite right that national governments must be complemented by binding international cooperation. It's important. Norway should, of course, make its contribution to peace in the world, but in our eagerness to help other countries to security and democracy, we must not forget to safeguard our own security. This is where the government is fundamentally failing. By international law, Norway has gained authority over vast sea areas. But the government is putting this authority at risk by building up our own defenses and our military presence, especially in the important northern areas. The maritime sovereignty can not be left to the Coast Guard alone. Of course, our national defence cannot be strong enough alone to provide security for our country. That's why we've been committed to NATO as a base for our foreign and security policy. NATO solidarity ensures Member States through the principle that an attack on one of the Member States is considered an attack on the whole alliance. This solidarity does not go away even if NATO is changed by the EU taking greater responsibility for the defence of its own territory. NATO is also amended in other ways. From being an alliance that defended its own territory, it has become an alliance which increasingly engages in security policy and military activities outside its own territory. As long as operations are under the joint NATO command, Norway should extend far into participation. In this way, we strengthen NATO as an organization, and thus our own security. However, we should insist that Norway's peacekeeping operations primarily contribute to security, democracy development, humanitarian aid and infrastructure reconstruction. The United States has now asked Norway for a Norwegian quota of special forces for Afghanistan consisting of paratroopers and marine hunters. The force shall be placed directly under American command. The mission is to combat terrorism, probably fighting the remains of the Taliban and Al Qaida. The view of the coastal party is that Norway should reject this mission. What, if any, will a Norwegian commando be given by the Taliban and Al Qaida? We can just use the imagination. Participation in such a mission may also result in further focus on Norway as a target of terrorism. Norway should also increase its humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, in particular targeting women and children. And we can continue in the security forces of NATO in Kabul. This emphasis on security and humanitarian aid fits into the picture of Norway that we would like to develop further, namely as peacemakers. A Norwegian priority for joint operations under NATO or the UN must also be followed up with the European Union. The EU is building forces to operate outside its own territory and which will not be under UN or NATO mandate. The coastal party is therefore opposed to participating in forces under EU command. Our independence from the EU war machine will further strengthen our credibility as neutral mediators in international conflicts. Norway should also support the principle that the African Union itself is increasingly addressing local safety problems without interference from the EU. The Minister of Foreign Affairs notes that the EU is increasingly using both foreign and judicial policy instruments to address threats and challenges related to human trafficking and other organised crime. He believes that Norway should ensure that Schengen-related issues are discussed in the Joint Body, especially when matters are increasingly becoming cross-sectoral and the Schengen relevance is not as clearly defined. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs mean that the Schengen Agreement is unclear or less and less relevant? The truth is that the Schengen area is the paradise of criminals and traffickers due to open and uncontrolled borders between Member States. The Coastal Party believes that Norway should terminate the Schengen Agreement as soon as possible and establish passport controls at the EU border. The Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded that Norway should focus on cooperation and dialogue in foreign policy. The Coastal Party will extend its cooperation and dialogue effort on the basis of national autonomy. This will be more in line with the hundredth anniversary we're celebrating this year. Otherwise, the Coastal Party is against Norway being sold bit by bit!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e622	The next speaker is the Gunhild Eyegagen, then Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e625	Following the river wave disaster in Southeast Asia, the enormous daily suffering in Africa has been put on the agenda under the term'silent tsunami'. No other continents face such enormous challenges as Africa does, and the UNDP estimates that 3.8 million Africans die of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis every year. If we compare this with the number of people killed after the flood disaster in Asia, the mortality rate is the same as if a tsunami were to hit Africa every single month, year after year. In addition, all those who die because of war and armed conflicts, hunger, poverty and other diseases come. In Wangari Maathai's speech to the Environment and Development Forum recently, her message was quite clear. The prerequisite for a fundamental new development in Africa is a good governance, the fight against corruption, the development of democracy, and peace and reconciliation. It's easy to say, but it's a demanding and often long and winding road to go for deranged states. Now there is actually some positive happening in Africa through the African Union and NEPAD. Norway should strongly support these processes, whereby Africa takes greater responsibility for development and peace on its own continent. Ukraine is a fresh example of a state that has suffered under poor governance, and where the population, even with great stamina and great opposition, stood up for its rights and called for a new development. It is therefore right for Norway to support civil society and the media and to strengthen cooperation with Ukraine in the development of democracy. I would like to stress that the development of democracy is a particular challenge for many of the former Soviet Union's liberated states. Fortunately, the EU is an important bridge builder against these new countries. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘EU cooperation is increasingly affecting Norway, while reducing our own opportunities to influence as EU cooperation expands and deepens. This is an important recognition and a cross of thought.’ I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on that very point. It is a cross of thought that Norway is outside that cooperation – on our own continent – that affects our country to such an extent, without being able to influence what is happening. In trøndelag, where I come from, the fish farming industry is very important, and, not least, it is a future industry. Where employment is steadily declining in traditional fisheries and agriculture, strong optimism has been attached to this industry where we have very favourable natural conditions. The size has e.g. granted billions of krona to mainland Hitra and Fröya connections to get fish quickly to the EU market. The new protection measures taken by the European Commission against Norwegian salmon can have major consequences not only for the industry itself, but for those areas of Norway based on such activities. The current situation creates considerable uncertainty in many communities. The government has now brought the salmon case before the World Trade Organisation, and that is good, but this actually shows the concrete consequences that it has for us to stand outside EU cooperation. At the same time as the Prime Minister is in the ‘Thinking Box’, developments in the EU are moving rapidly. Cooperation is broadened and deepened, while Norway’s ability to influence is decreasing and decreasing. It's more than a cross of thought!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e649	The President has announced Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik. He is not present in the Chamber, so the President gives the floor to Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e652	It's rarely allowed to stand-in at such a high level. But to my post: The Foreign Minister’s presentation illustrated in a very good way how global challenges and opportunities increasingly require global mechanisms. The UN is the main framework for global cooperation. The current governance structure of the United Nations is a result of the power politics conditions that existed at the end of World War II and are obviously ripe for reform. The UN High Level Panel had a good analysis of the challenges facing the UN in terms of its primary task of enforcing peace and international security. It will be important to change the composition of the Security Council, there needs to be a better balance between the different regions, and it is in Norway's interest that small and medium-sized countries can continue to apply in the Security Council. Against such a background, regional cooperation institutions are also of great importance. These developments have progressed most in Europe, with the EU. Another example is the African Union, AU, which is already playing a role in several regional conflicts and which shows increasing capacity for interaction in political matters. Norway is dependent on an international order based on multilateralism where democracy, legal certainty and international law are the basic norms. Strong international institutions are an instrument for strengthening sovereignty. It is in cooperation with others that Norway’s sovereignty as a state develops. History shows that institutions are not constant sizes. Some grow, others stagnate. Similarly, we now see evidence that institutions such as Norway have traditionally been dependent on, and to which we have attached our foreign policy identity, stagnate or restructured in relation to another institution of which Norway is not a member. I am thinking first and foremost of the European Union, which has had a raging trend since the 1994 referendum. A common foreign policy, a common monetary policy and an eastern enlargement of the Union were then only on the drawing board. Ten years ago, NATO was also the most central institution of defence and security policy in Europe. Yes, just a little over two years ago, in November 2002, when NATO adopted an extension with seven new states, there were some politicians and researchers who thought that NATO had a clear takeover on the EU as the most central security and defence cooperation forum. Their views were further strengthened in the spring of 2003, when neither the EU nor NATO had the power to reach a common position on the Iraq war. A lot of water has been clean in the sea since that time. We now see that European security policy is actually being Europeanised, i.e. that the EU assumes several of NATO's tasks, that the EU is gradually acting more collectively within NATO, and that when the EU's Constitutional Treaty enters into force next autumn, EU security cooperation will be further strengthened. This structure opens up enhanced cooperation, whereby the acceding countries commit themselves to mutual defence in the event of attacks. The establishment of a European Defence Agency, EDA, will strengthen the EU on the defence side. Overall, this will lead to a significant strengthening of the EU's role in European security policy, partly at the expense of both NATO and the OSCE. We have to be aware that the transatlantic relations are not the same as before. This is now recognized on both sides of the Atlantic. The German Chancellor's statements earlier this month on bilateral contacts between the EU and the United States without going the path if NATO is symptomatic of development, without our having to dramatize it in the first place. In the historical sense, Norway has always been an Atlantic oriented country. Before World War II, we were properly conducting a neutralist foreign policy, but the relationship with the United Kingdom as the then Atlantic leadership was very important. Since 1949, the United States has been our security anchor party, where the Atlantic community was to form the framework for Norwegian foreign and security policy. The conditions for these frameworks are now under substantial change. As a result, Norway’s international space for action will be significantly weakened if we do nothing about this and become a full-fledged member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e678	The President has registered that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik has now appeared in the Chamber, so the President gives the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e681	I am sorry that I was not in the room when I was advertised. I got a message about a little later as expected, but now I am here. After being in the Middle East a few days ago, my summary is: there is a basis for cautious optimism about the future in the area. The meeting in Sharm el Sheikh last Tuesday was the first Israeli-Palestinian summit in four years. It produced results that are positive in themselves: a truce and the creation of four working groups to follow up issues that are important to the parties. Egypt and Jordan shall also be recognised for their efforts ahead of and during the summit. However, the will of the parties for peace is crucial. I noticed both in the Israelis and in the Palestinians a willingness to implement measures leading to peace. President Abbas gave the impression of strong determination, and will give priority to security, the fight against terrorism and the reform of the Palestinian self-government authorities. On the Israeli side, I saw the same determination to carry out the extraction from Gaza and some cities on the West Bank, but also in the case of the release of Palestinian prisoners. This provides a good basis for further work on implementing the Roadmap for Peace, and in the long term: final status negotiations. At the same time, we must be prepared for setbacks. I strongly appealed to the parties not to let simple incidents get in the way of the work for peace. I warned against letting extremists gain control of the agenda and give them the power to stop the process. Further difficulties must not be underestimated, even if there is progress and a positive atmosphere between the parties today. The final status questions – refugees, settlements, the national border between two countries and Jerusalem, with its sacred places – are the most difficult questions to solve. During my visit, I discussed with religious and political leaders from both sides the religious dimension of the conflict and all three of the religions involved, not least related to Jerusalem. It is understanding among all that a solution must be based on mutual respect and access for all to its sacred places. In several conflict-affected regions of the world, religion, and in particular the abuse of religion, is part of the conflict. Through dialogue and focus on common values, such as human dignity, peace-thinking and reconciliation, we can turn it around so that religion becomes part of the solution. This must also be integrated into school education. Respect and tolerance for different believers must develop from infancy. A major challenge in the Middle East is to improve the living conditions of the Palestinians. Many are frustrated by worsening living conditions. Unemployment is very high. Economic progress in the Palestinian territories is essential for the peace process. They must see the outcome of the peace process in their daily lives. They must have hope of a better future. This applies not least in Gaza after Israel's withdrawal. Here Norway will play a central role as leader of the AHLC donor country group, as both parties underlined during my visit. Norway aims to convene a ministerial meeting in AHLC as soon as circumstances permit. A solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict will be important for the whole region. Syria must respect Security Council Resolution 1559. The countries must respect Lebanon's sovereignty. At the same time, Syria must stop its support for groups that are working against peace in the Middle East with terror. At the same time, Norway calls on both Israel and Syria to resume negotiations on a peace agreement. The elections in Iraq were a first step towards democratic Iraq in accordance with Security Council Resolution 1546. World society must help the Iraqi people to overcome the destructive forces that violently counter the political process against a democratically united and stable Iraq. However, violence will continue as long as part of the population does not consider the new political institutions to be legitimate. It is therefore essential that the Sunni Arabs be involved in the political process. Peace has not been won until Iraq stands united behind a demand for freedom, peace and democracy. I also believe that NATO can have a task in the Middle East, not with combat forces, but through a cooperation project. Such cooperation has NATO today with partner countries in the Balkans and in the former Soviet Union. Not least, we think NATO can be an important partner for the Palestinian authorities in reforming their security apparatus. I brought this up with President Abbas. He was positive, and I will therefore also take it up at the NATO summit this week. This summit also gives us an opportunity to show that the alliance is still united. The debate on the Iraq war has been a burden within the alliance, over the Atlantic and between countries in Europe. However, we must now not only be concerned with friction, but look forward and strengthen the community. We must not lose sight of the fact that NATO has been able to undergo strong modernisation and conversion, so that the alliance is now better equipped to tackle new security challenges. At the same time, NATO has been expanded in several rounds and stands out as a powerful community. We must be equally alert to the ability of the Alliance to promote stability, prevent conflicts, prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, prevent ethnic abuse, as we saw in the Balkans, and contribute to training and institution building that ensures security and peace. Not least, NATO has resources to carry out demanding UN mandates. This strengthens both multilateral cooperation and world peace. From the Norwegian side, we will actively contribute to NATO remaining the important forum for transatlantic dialogue that the organisation has been and should remain. Statements by German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder some days ago can be seen as a signal of less emphasis on transatlantic dialogue within NATO, and more within the EU-US axis. This is not in Norway’s interest and must therefore be counteracted. But if there is such a development, there will also be a new element in our future assessment of our relationship with the EU. Moreover, the EU and Europe are something quite different today than the last time we took a position on Norwegian membership, in 1994. The EU is no longer a Western but a more pan-European organisation. If and when we're going to take a new position on Norwegian membership, we all, regardless of our basic position, have to take this new situation as our starting point. We must constantly discuss our relationship with European cooperation. We need a strong world organization. Despite its shortcomings, the United Nations has a lot to point to. We all need a well-functioning UN to solve the major global challenges, such as climate change and humanitarian disasters such as tsunami, which killed over 200,000 in Christmas. But we also need the UN to solve many smaller, but still serious, crises. That is why it is so vital that we succeed in a reform of the United Nations. A panel has delivered its report. It is now being assessed in the Member States and will be discussed at a UN summit in September. The UN must become an even better instrument for peace and security, for human rights and development. At a time of globalization, national and regional forums and solutions often become inadequate. We increasingly need global, multilateral solutions and cooperation forums to meet the challenges of our time. Norway shall act as a driving force behind it in international policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e716	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e719	The question is whether the promising development in the Middle East will be tried by various terrorist groups to destroy those who will have a two-state solution. I said in my post that I have been told that Hezbollah has tripled the reward for those who will carry out suicide actions in Israel. Hezbollah is supported by Iran. Iran is probably also trying to develop nuclear weapons, which is a new threat to peaceful development in the Middle East. Europe is trying to make Iran change its policies, including: to attract increased trade and economic activity. But Norway is increasing its financial involvement in Iran, regardless of this. It was said in the evening post that Minister of Industry Børge Brende will lead a large trade delegation to the country now. I think this is unfortunate in a situation where you need to have a coordinated policy from Europe and the United States to put pressure on the Tehran regime to change the regime's policy. We must refrain from supporting these terrorist groups, which can destroy what both sides, both the Israelis and the Palestinians, want, namely, to move forward towards a two-state solution. Iran is still in favour of a single state solution, namely the extermination of the State of Israel. This is supported by supporting these groups. We need to get control of this development. Norway has to contribute and integrate into a common strategy in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e726	The Chair of the Committee points to important issues related to the Middle East conflict. As you know, President Abbas has come to an understanding with more extreme Palestinian groups like Hamas and Islamist Jihad to keep peace now, and we hope that it will be respected. He expressed at the same time that he could not issue a 100 pst. guarantee that provocations and suicide actions would take place, including: For the reason that I am quite right in pointing out, there are groups outside the Palestinian territories who are interested in creating unrest and terror. Therefore, the question of Lebanon and an understanding between Israel and Syria are also important in order for Syria to declare its control in Lebanon. As far as Iran is concerned, I agree that there is not enough thoughtful policy on a global scale. It's not a boycott, as you know. It is permitted to engage in business there. But I think an international should have a more thoughtful policy, including over the Atlantic, because there have been different views between Europe and the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e735	The Prime Minister has been engaged in religious dialogue, and the starting point is the very best. But we know that not all theologians use religion the way we want it to be used, namely to promote human dignity, tolerance and positive values. Does the Prime Minister think that there is a limit to who you can sit down with? Some of those who have been interlocutors in some of the religious dialogues that have taken place are states that, in my opinion, abuse the concept of religion, for example. Iran. Is there a form of dialogue that the Prime Minister thinks it makes sense to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e742	I have had talks with Iran's President, Khatami, and Iran's female Vice President, at the latest in a panel under the World Economic Forum in Davos. I think it makes sense with such dialogues. As you know, there are different forces in Iran. The President and Vice President are of the more moderate. But we know that their power is very limited, because they have a so-called guardian council with other forces that control Parliament's decisions and that, as far as I remember, have failed or refused to accept more than 90 pst. of the decisions adopted by the previous Parliament. But that we are having a dialogue with the more moderate forces in Iran, I actually think it makes sense to increase understanding of what role religion should play, and not least what role religion should not play, so that it should not be abused.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e757	I agree with the Prime Minister's approach to a dialogue, which was his response in the last line. We do not have very good experience with extensive boycotts from recent events in this region, for example. the boycott of Iraq. But a dialogue requires that you be very clear about nuclear weapons and human rights, so that dialogue becomes an instrument in which you actually use the opportunity you have to influence the situation in the future. But that's not what I was supposed to start with. I believe that the wording Kjell Magne Bondevik had today on the issue of the EU is going to have historical interest, because I think he went much further in opening up his own position to revision, depending on what is happening in the dialogue ahead. That is why I want to follow up with a question. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is very clear in the assessment of the relationship between the EU and NATO in the future. He said in his statement: ‘We may be at risk of further marginalisation.’ Does the Prime Minister really think that Norway is marginalised today and that what we are talking about for the possible alliances of the future are degrees of marginalisation of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e769	I fully agree that dialogue requires clarity. At least I've been in the dialogues I've been in on important issues like both human rights and nuclear weapons. Interreligious dialogue also does not mean giving your own faith. On the contrary, those who themselves have a religious faith should be the first to respect and understand others'. So also at that point, one can be clear, but still focus on common values. As far as EU formulations are concerned, it was interesting that they were observed. But I can inform Kristin Halvorsen that the episode was correct in my TV broadcast New Year's speech. I've actually taken it from there. But then there were other things that attracted attention; it was just after the river wave disaster. I mean what I say, that whatever the starting point, both we who were and are no-people, and those who have a different view, must start with the new Europe and the European Union on the day of the accession debate. We can't just go up the argument base from 1994. It has to be renewed. In my view, Norway is not marginalised today. But if there is such a development as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has described, we can increasingly be.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e780	Earlier today, I have given the Government the honour of contributing to the peace process in Sudan. It has been patience, it has been long-term, and it has been good diplomatic craftsmanship that has enabled you to make a substantial contribution. Despite the great effort, the Government is now choosing to contribute only 30 personnel to the UN operation to ensure the implementation of the peace agreement. The Central Party is committed to the international community's responsibilities in Afghanistan as well. But what we see here today on the part of the Government is that the Government – as we must understand it – chooses to prioritize soldiers to Operation Enduring Freedom over the UN operation in Sudan, just as the Government chose to give priority to soldiers to Iraq rather than sending personnel to the UN force in the Congo. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he believes it is a wise signal to send to the United Nations that Norway is sending only 30 staff to the operation in Sudan, an operation that will count a total of more than 10,000 people.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e789	There is, as you know, work going on to obtain sufficient strengths and personnel for Sudan, and there is a very great interest in having a large part of it – to say – the ordinary military force involved, manned from Africa. That might be wise, since it's an African country. The type of staff that Norway is required to provide has a slightly different character. We have said 30, and then we have said, in the Foreign Minister's statement, that we want to ensure a Norwegian presence at least at this level in the future. That means we'll also be able to get back to that. Afghanistan has said that both government, big business and NATO should be our main priority. I believe that what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained is an expression of that. The government is a warm supporter of UN-led forces, but we also need to see more and more that the UN is now calling on other organisations, including more and more. NATO and, in some cases, the EU, in order to carry out UN mandated missions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e800	I am totally in favour of dialogue, including with Iran, but, as it has been said, there are always questions about how clear you are, and also what you do when. I think it is unfortunate to send a heavy trade delegation to Iran now that Europe is trying to use trade policy, i.e. to lure more trade if Iran states to make nuclear weapons, if it adopts its policies differently in the region. Now we are really at a turning point, and what could threaten this is Iran's policy and support for groups like Hezbollah, which we now see in Lebanon, but which have also clearly settled in the West Bank and Gaza. Then I think we should align ourselves with a common strategy and not go sideways and let Iran get more trade, no matter what they do. It must also be remembered here that the result can be very quickly that military instruments have to be used, which I would strongly warn against. But that is precisely why we need to support the civil instruments available, namely trade policy and economics, as the EU is trying to do. I fully agree with those who say that sanctions don't work, but you don't have to go to the opposite step in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e807	Let me start where the committee leader stopped. I fully agree that one should have a more common strategy, and, if possible, also over the Atlantic, in relation to Iran, which is one of the cornerstones of the problems throughout the region. I also fully agree that one should not use military instruments. When we see how it has evolved in Iraq after the war, how the difficulties have been significant, I really think it can only be small things against what could come if there were to be a military action against Iran. Then it would really explode. So it's going to have to be a lot to avoid. Europe has taken a sensible approach there. After all, a British-French-German initiative has been taken to engage in dialogue with Iran, especially on nuclear issues. We hope to bring that forward. I have noticed what Mr Jagland has said on trade relations, and we shall also see if it is possible to reach a common strategy with other European countries on such issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e817	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e820	The Foreign Minister’s statement on Tuesday gave a situation description of some of the many problems facing many countries in conflict. The UN will have to take resolutions, but without the will to follow them up, if necessary with power, it will only talk. Although recent elections have been held in Iraq, there are still bloody struggles between those who want democracy and religious and political fanatics who do everything they can to create chaos. They care little about UN Security Council resolutions and the international community behind the newly elected Iraqi government and the plans for democratisation. This means that the job in Iraq is not over, but that the international community stands together to secure security in the country as long as the authorities ask for it. Here it is important not to be intimidated by destructive groups, but to show a firm attitude, showing solidarity with those who want peace and democracy. Spending money on construction is of little use if others tear down. If we are unable to create a safe situation in which the United Nations or other relief agencies can operate for the best of their country, we have failed. The situation in Afghanistan is also marked by political, ethnic and religious contradictions, where local warlords do not help to make matters easier, rather the opposite. It is therefore important that Norway, together with allies, contribute the necessary resources both militarily and humanitarianly and take action to protect those who give and those who receive help. In the case of unhelp, it is important that donor countries have the population behind them when using government funds. It gives little gergleth when you see that King Mswati III of Swaziland buckets a split new BMW Series 5 on each of his ten wives at a price of over NOK 5.3 million, while the people starve. Three months earlier, he had entertained himself with a split new Chrysler to over NOK 3 million. In addition, he and his wives have a fleet of BMWs and Mercedess as well as a Rolls Royce. In recent years, the king has asked Parliament for a total of $15 million to house their wives in each of its palaces. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs denies that Norwegian aid crowns are involved in financing the king’s luxury, but indirectly they are accomplices by contributing through international organisations with funds to the population, without making demands, for example: in the case of the king's luxury life. This was just one example, there are several. Then I will turn my attention to countries where the authorities do not protect their own people, who are now west of Sudan, in the Darfur area, and in other African regions. It reminds us in many ways of recording the genocide in Rwanda. The experience of Rwanda and Srebrenica shows, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the need to create greater international consensus on the need for joint action, including: attention must be paid to early intervention before the need for military action becomes apparent. Here it not only helps with beautiful words; it must be the will to put power behind the words if necessary. Another major threat to humanity is the proliferation of nuclear weapons, which not only affects the country against which the weapons may be used, but which is a threat to life on earth. This must be taken seriously, and the world community must clearly tell the new developing countries that this is not tolerated.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e837	In recent times, we have had three important choices, all of which have been made during full or partial occupation, or at least with a massive military presence – in Palestine, Afghanistan and Iraq. The election of Mahmoud Abbas as the Palestinians' president can guarantee that we can go towards a free Palestine. The Quartet and Roadmap for Peace will remain at the heart of the process, but no one knows better than Abbas that without the real contradictions coming on the table early in the process, no solution can be found. Occupation, refugees, right of return, East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine, etc. are questions that have to be addressed already now; otherwise the road map will end up as the Oslo Agreement: in a riot, in an intifada. Israel is faced with two choices, either one state, where they will be in a minority, or a two-state solution. It is also important for the Palestinian leadership to get real results in order to stop the violence carried out by Palestinian groups. Yesterday's plural in the Knesset to pull the constructions out of Gaza promises well – but will it do the same on the West Bank? The choice in Iraq has confirmed multiple speeches to the Shia, Kurdish assembly and Sunnars who strongly oppose. The question arises as to whether it is possible to create a nation by the formation of Iraq. The Sia British put the hashish king 80 years ago into a constructed country, it has been impossible to rule Iraq without the massive use of power. Perhaps, in the long run, more states need to be formed to meet the national needs within what we know today as the state of Iraq. This will require the participation of peoples and peoples who live in Iraq, besides voting in an election, and may be fundamental to a lasting peace. Where there is war and conflict, there are always traces of economic causes at the bottom. Here, I think the United States is making a big mistake when, for example, the initial positive cancellation of Iraq's debt of up to 80 pst. over three years contain strong elements of demands for privatisation from the IMF and the loss of good as a basket of food for poor people. The final example is that the United States nectars Iraqi farmers to use their own seeds and at the same time uses this prohibition to sell genetically modified seeds. I shall refer only briefly from the Coalition Governing Authority's issuing order, No. 81, § 66-[B], where one quite eloquently says that it is now forbidden for Iraqi farmers to save their own seed for the next year. In fact, a seed shall be used by licensed distributors of U.S. This shows in a good way that an actual intention has not been to achieve a fundamental economic development, for example: in the agricultural sector — based on Iraqi traditions such as: seeds. This shows that there is little willingness to create an economic policy that can be supported locally. In Afghanistan, everything is characterised by a drug economy, and worst of all, it seems to be the only viable economy, because the other two economies, the military and the aid, are not eternal. If we cannot solve the problem of the drug economy, we cannot solve the problem of democracy in Afghanistan either. We now know that after pressure from the United States, President Karzai is trying as hard as he can, to make remedies when it comes to production. The farmers who produce drugs in Afghanistan depend on the loans they have received from drug cartels. For example: The crop, which would be the most drastic measure, will experience that the farmers are still in debt – and there are debts that cannot be repaid at all by other, regular production, such as quail, fruit, etc. It's impossible. We could get into a situation where people in Afghanistan who now partially support Karzai, would actually be forced to go against Karzai, because the measures he has taken against drug production would be too tough. This shows how difficult it is to build an economic development. But that's where we have to put the funds. That is what the Norwegian solar data in Afghanistan also say to us clearly and eloquently: after us there must be aid, after us there must be a real political and economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e856	In a long and thorough presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded with some consideration of the situation in the northern regions. The size has long, too long, in fact, been waiting for an announcement of the situation in the north, and it may be very late to get it at Easter times, but we'll see how it goes. When this big message comes, it can actually be a breakthrough for Norwegian north-eastern policy through a treatment in Stortinget. What's going to be interesting is to see if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and also here, we're doing something in a field that's been characterised by sector interests, domestic policy resource struggle and fragmentation. The most important thing we can do when designing a new policy for the north is to coordinate efforts – in addition to increasing the impact in the north, both through active participation in international forums and, of course, through bilateral initiatives. An overall strategy should be developed as the basis for the treatment of north-eastern issues by central and regional authorities. Dramatic changes in our neighbourhoods and on the European continent following the fall of the Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union have in many ways marginalized us in security policy and shaded the northern regions. For us, it is important that we ensure understanding in NATO and in the EU of the challenges facing us in the north and our long-range coasts. We do not do that on the sole occasion that SV has mentioned earlier today in relation to these areas. We have jurisdiction over a sea area that is seven times larger than our territory. Both the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea are among the most productive sea areas in the world. In North-West Russia, large stocks of nuclear waste and depleted nuclear submarines exist, and we know that environmental problems are huge. Climate change in the Arctic regions calls for active cooperation between the countries of the north and for us to also involve the United States, Russia, the EU and NATO. 1 May 2004 marked the definitive end of the Cold War. Europe was reassembled to one continent when the EU was enlarged by ten countries. One month earlier, NATO got seven new countries into the alliance. Several of these countries were not even independent states 15 years ago. The integration process in the EU is faster than what we can imagine. With great self-confidence, the Union is developing its own defence and security policy. The development of the EU-NATO relationship will be exciting to follow, not least in the light of what we have seen and heard in the last days and weeks. In fact, I believe that Inge Wohnung is quite right when he said earlier today that increasingly reality decisions about security policy are being taken in NATO's own bodies. They have already been defined by the EU before the NATO meetings – in forums that we are outside. So we can see that Sweden and Finland have more influence in NATO than the NATO country Norway has. This will, in my view, have to shape our security policy debate in the future. The Foreign Minister said in his statement that Norway has received a new request to provide Special Forces for Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan, in addition to the forces we currently have in NATO's stabilisation force, ISAF. Operation Enduring Freedom is anchored in the United Nations mandate. We've had both special forces and F-16 planes in the past in this operation. I have also visited Kyrgyzstan in connection with our F-16 aircraft and ground crew during the current metropolitan period. Both stabilisation and assistance organisations depend on the security represented by Operation Renewing Freedom. I think it's hard to see one operation independently of the other, and so far most of the speakers here have agreed, with slightly different conclusions. I have also noticed what the Foreign Minister said, that in the long term it is likely to be relevant to merge the two operations. We're going to follow this closely. Norway has given priority to Afghanistan. In addition to the military engagement we have, we have made Afghanistan a cooperating country also for Norwegian development aid. There's a huge need here. This is also how we see our Afghanistan policy as a whole. This has been supported by the Workers' Party all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e882	I will be the first to admit that it is not possible to mention all the foreign policy challenges we face, either in the presentation or in the debate. The presentation may have been too extensive, but there are so many issues on the agenda that I thought it was right anyway. It would therefore be highly unreasonable to assume that all important issues can be fully addressed in the debate itself. I must nevertheless be allowed to say that, in view of the fact that the Iraq discussion has been very central to the Great Britain for many years, and that the line of the Government, namely to support under the UN resolutions and the work done to bring Iraq back to the civil regime, has been challenged in many ways – the focus has been on completely different things in the Iraq debate – I think it is quite peculiar that when Iraq has now made a successful election, where the Iraqi people have expressed their desire to establish a majority government, yes, the silence in the foreign debate is so to speak total. I think it's quite eye-catching. It was important and great, what happened in Iraq. I think that line the government has gone on over these years, has been a right line, and the fact that there is so little about it, I take as an expression that the Storting agrees with it. I think the problem has been that it has taken a long time before it has been agreed that this political process has been the only way forward. Among the other questions that I did not address in my presentation are the peace talks. When I didn't do it this time, it's because they've been covered quite extensively in previous statements, and it's not possible to make room for everything. In the follow-up to this, also a little bit in the debate today, there has been a somewhat peculiar debate on the extent to which religious dialogue is also part of Norwegian foreign policy. When I'm a little surprised by this, it's because Norway has, for years, had concrete projects and concrete actions related to religion and religious dialogue as part of the thinking around conflicts. Clearly, religion can be a source of conflict and abuse, but it can also play an important role in peace and reconciliation. When I did not mention this in my presentation this time, it is because this is so firmly established and such an important part of Norwegian policy that when I did not touch the other parts of the peace communication, I also saw no reason to include this special side of it. But it must not lead anyone to think that this, like the other parts of our peace work, is very important. I want to give tribute to the Prime Minister for the commitment he has in this area. Of course, he has a very significant credibility in relation to this. But in all modesty I cheat a little bit on the subject myself by not least participating in the so-called C100 group in the World Economic Forum, whose purpose is to create a greater understanding between the Western and Muslim world. It is nice to have also been invited into the core group here. I agree with the other considerations regarding the issue of pay. In the case of Norway's other role in peace, it was also raised by Kristin Halvorsen. It's a well-known thing that we have a slightly different perspective on this. I think SV has always had a rather narrow relationship with the peacemaking work. For me, it has always been important, for example. that the Norwegian NATO membership in this way and the entire post-war period tells how important this part of our policy has been to peace and security, not just in our region, but in the world as a whole. The peace portfolio calls for a lot of different efforts. The mediation is just one of them. Our aid policy, I think, is another important element that there is every reason to attract attention. There is therefore no contradiction, as Kristin Halvorsen tried to give the impression, between working for peace and being a member of NATO or of the EU. I still have major problems in understanding that it would not be possible for Norway to make an effort in this area in the future, even if Norway were to become a member of the EU. I would like to remind you that it is NATO Norway that is being asked to do a series of peace operations, firmly anchored in Western cooperation. I might say that there is probably an important point in the Norwegian role, because the parties know that Norway has good contacts in Washington, good contacts in Brussels. It can be important in the work we're facing. I think this is creating unnecessary contradictions, and these are contradictions and problems that we haven't seen in practice. The opinion of Chancellor Schröder has been repeated in many speeches in the debate today, and I think that is very correct. That is a very worrying statement. When I said that, it wasn't, as Kristin Halvorsen tried to suggest, because it's part of my grief over previous EU votes. But I think it's crucial that we understand what's going on out there, and what other assessments are. I think it's easy to put this in the drawer for grief work. It is an important political reality when German Chancellors state their views on the future of NATO. We can and must not ignore that. That is why I would like to insist that this is a worrying statement. I think it is important that Norway opposes it as far as possible. NATO shall be the main forum for debate over the Atlantic. This has been Norwegian policy, and it must be Norwegian policy in the future. With regard to Afghanistan, there is little more to say than many have already said, namely that the ISAF operation and the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation are important prerequisites for each other, so that the Afghan regime can stand firm and work further, important for the fight against terrorism. It is therefore important for us to complete this work and thereby also contribute to both operations, as we have done now. That long-term assistance is also an important part of our Afghanistan strategy, I would like to take this opportunity to underline. There's nothing new either. We've said that many times before. But when Kristin Halvorsen mentioned it as an important factor, I see it as a connection to that line Stortinget has many times underlined that we are going to have in Afghanistan. Long-term assistance is important in the future. As far as Iran is concerned, I would like to stress to the Prime Minister that there is a great need to coordinate policy over the Atlantic. I fully agree with what has been said about the use of military resources. I think it is important to come up with political solutions to this. But it also means that this is an area where it is important for us to co-operate with the EU and the EU line, and that there are proper signals. The boycott question itself, which several have mentioned, I think we should discuss more closely in the Storting and perhaps also on a principle basis. It is likely that the use of boycotting agents is not particularly effective in many contexts. The Iraqi boycott is one of those experiences. I want to mention that in my statement I also say a little about this in Burma context. There is, of course, in the quite peculiar situation that because of Western boycott, Burma loses some 300 million dollars. dollar on trade. But then they have a $1 billion trade with China. It shows that what they have lost in one area, they have more than succeeded in compensating for in other areas. It shows that this as a political tool is not as effective as we might think it should be. So I think we need a proper review of those questions. Finally, let me underline a point that I am pleased that Lars Rise brought up, which is what I said about the African Union. It is a long time left for the African Union to fulfil the role they want to play, but when you see how far they have come in a very short time, I think it is very, very encouraging. The slogan that many people use, namely ‘African solutions to African problems’, I think in many ways is a very correct slogan. But then we should also assist the African Union in building up its capacities. This is therefore one of the important tasks we have in the future, and one of the important parts of the statement I made, at my discretion. We need to show greater interest in what the African Union is doing and help them to do better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e910	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e913	I'm going to continue where the Foreign Minister ends, with the situation in Africa, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made a significant contribution to putting in place the agreements that are now in place in Sudan. So we have to work to make sure that this deal holds, that it doesn't break up. There is a discussion here about the Norwegian contribution. It's an important discussion that we can come back to. But whether we have 30 or 300 men, it says, at least with the starting point here, 10,000, that 9 300 people are going to be in place. There is an important discussion when we start to commit Norwegian contributions. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has clear suggestions on how one can help others to take an important part in the mission in Sudan, so that this force can be filled with as much advice as possible, in such a way that it can strengthen and support under the agreements – in other words, not just a discussion about the Norwegian contribution, but about how Norway can help others to do a job in Sudan.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e920	I perceive this question so that there is a question of financial contributions to other countries making strengths available in the UN operations. To that is to say that we have no suggestions about that now. We have proposals about our contribution to the strength, which is the number we mentioned, and which we must admit, of course, may not be of the very most cost-effective. I think it is important that Norway also contributes to this, but here and now I can't say anything about whether we should give funds to other countries to get them in. I then keep out of the way that had to be our obligatory contribution to the UN, because it will fall into place by itself. But extraordinary contributions are another question. There are also some formal limitations on what can be used, for example. means of assistance, for which we have to consider. I won't in any way reject it, but just say that I can't say anything positive right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e927	Following the fall of the Berlin Wall, most European countries reorganised the EEAS, including the Our Nordic neighbours redefined foreign policy and modernised the EEAS. For example, Sweden buried its great post-war project that builds and modernises its U.D. in line with the new needs. In Norway, we established a diplomacy of peace and had a notion of becoming a humanitarian act. Do we have an U.D. today that is organized to meet our strategic challenges in a good and satisfactory way?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e932	Before I answer the question itself, let me report the following, namely, that the term «human power» I have never liked very well, to say it carefully. Then we light up telling the whole outside world how nice we think we are, and I don't think that tastes very good. I would like to say that I have never used that term and will never use it. But there are important things we can do. So it's a question of whether we have an organisational apparatus that's on the level of what we're facing here. It is clear that it is subject to ongoing assessments. One of the things that we've changed lately is that maybe we've tightened the organization a lot better when it comes to just these peace-brokering jobs we've been talking about, and got a lot more systematics in that work. So I think that's better set up now. As far as the other general modernisation debate is concerned, I would like to say that you can, of course, do everything much better than what you do now. There's always something that can be done differently. But in that area I have to say I think I have heard terribly much strange and very few specific objections to what is being done. So I think you could say that we have a device that is at least well set up, with that probably a potential for improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e941	In his statement to the Stortinget, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that ‘we can risk being further marginalised’ in foreign policy if the EU develops to become something different from what the EU is today. It is in itself a rather special sentence to say to a foreign minister about the Norwegian role internationally. But that must be his assessment. Luckily, this is not the same assessment as the Prime Minister, for he said explicitly from the Stockholm pulpit that he did not consider Norway to be marginalised in foreign policy. Nor, of course, is Norway. But this says a little about the different approaches, the level of ambition you need, and the role you always place on the EU in this. What is then my challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is this: these are two completely diametrically opposite views, which are not compatible. He cannot therefore believe that Norway is marginalised and marginalised further if the EU evolves as he suggests, and the Prime Minister believes that we are not marginalised. It's two completely diametrically opposite visions. That is why I have to allow myself to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: does he think that the sentence was perhaps a little unfortunate, and that, when he thought about it, he believes that Norway is not marginalised by foreign policy, and that he is thus in line with the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e949	I am not sure whether this debate is now about to enter a track that does not provide any particular further information. If I can get close to this from another side, I would say that I think we all agree that there are important things going on with consequences also for our framework conditions in bodies of which Norway is not a member. I think that's relatively undisputed. So it's a matter of taste if you call it a marginalization or not, but I think the very recognition is very important to hold on to. To me, it seems that Djupedal does not take that kind of recognition inwards. What was my point in the statement was that if even more decisions are made in organs that we're not a member of, we get a bigger problem than what we have today. We must recognize that there are important things going on where we are not present. I don't think Djupedal himself will be able to deny that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e954	Both Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and others from the government side spend a lot of time on the Israel–Palestinian conflict in this debate, and that is good. Norway has continued to have ambitions in relation to that part of the world. That's good. But I have a question for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The government has chosen to shut down the Norwegian representation office in Gaza. As far as I'm concerned, that means a saving of $30 million. The center party is wondering if it's worth it. In addition to the fact that there are a number of practical problems in the interaction between Gaza and Norway, it is also a negative signal to send to a people who often feel abandoned by the international community. My question is: why does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that we cannot afford to maintain the Norwegian agency in Gaza?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e961	I don't think anyone in Palestine feels they're abandoned by Norway. Norway is head of the donor group for Palestine. In this context, we have close and extensive contact with both the Palestinian leadership and the Palestinian people. So the thought that Åslaug Haga is in, I don't think many have thought, to say it carefully. The very concept of ‘representation office’ may give a slightly wrong impression of what you are facing, because it was an office without Norwegian representation. It was a kind of help office, manned by Palestinians. I have seen that some have said that we will lose a listening post. Of course, we don't, because where we have listening posts, we also need Norwegian personnel, and we didn't. I believe that when we are going to have Norwegian offices out, it is important, especially in so politically sensitive areas, that there are Norwegian staff at them. I find that this office fell between two chairs in many ways. That is the background to my decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e968	In the small dispute between me and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is probably more policy than the Council of State would readily admit. Because it is quite obvious that there are different levels of ambition, including how we want to define our relationship with the EU. What's a little hard to admit, I think, for Jan Petersen, is that it's outside the EU – it's right enough that we don't participate around many important tables – while at the same time we have some other important tables that the EU can't have. Javier Solana recently answered a direct question in an interview with Frank M. Rossavik in Bergen’s Official Journal: ‘So Norway could not carry out peace missions without approval from the rest of the EU?’ ‘No’, he says quite explicitly. He states that this must be done under EU approval. This is part of the ambition that we as a nation can have and that gives us a freedom of action that the European Union does not have. It gives some tables that the EU doesn't have. When I ask about this contradiction between the Prime Minister and the Council of State at this point, it is quite obvious that this is the difference. The Prime Minister is still against the EU, but it is not the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is this political space we constantly demand that we fill. It's quite exemplary when Javier Solana says very clearly that this space of action is actually outside the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e977	What is at least obvious is that SV is doing what they can to take inward what Chancellor Schröder said. That's the interesting thing here. With regard to Norway’s external and intra-EU action, it is clear that we will have considerable space for action. In the peace talks in which we are involved, we also have good and close contact with the European Union, which means that we are, of course, more effective than what we could otherwise have been. So here there's no problem or contradiction. Nor is it the case that foreign ministries ask in Brussels before taking a position. I don't even think Djupedal will describe the European Union that way. So this is an attempt from the SV's side at not taking inwards and minimizing what was said this weekend. I understand that Djupedal will have to do this, because it is easier to see what speaks against than what speaks for a Norwegian EU membership in the case of Djupedal. But I have to say that there is one thing we should strive for, and that is to be willing to look in the eyes of the challenges that are. Then we have to admit that here we have a challenge. It'll preferably hide Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e984	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e987	Norwegian security is not ensured by Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. As has been said earlier today, SV again refuses to allow Norway to participate in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation under American command in Afghanistan and refuses to combine the command conditions between ‘Enduring Freedom’ and ISAF. SV had recently held a delegation in Afghanistan, as Kristin Halvorsen mentioned earlier, and we got a pretty good insight into the situation and challenges in Afghanistan, as they appear. We were told about a country with damaged infrastructure, a country where large parts of the population are without water, without work, without legal systems, where there is limited police, not schooling, etc. This is a country where 70 pst. In the United Kingdom, drug production accounts for more than half of the total economy of the country. Many of the groups we met – and there were quite different groups, ministers in Karzai's new government, people from different organisations and many of our military in ISAF – repeated that Afghanistan needs the most, is rebuilding civil infrastructure, elections to parliament and local elections are taking place on schedule, democratic legitimacy is being built up, the armies of warlords are being demobilized and not getting into private militias, and people are getting something to live on. These things we should talk more about in this room. Very few of those we met believed that the war on the Taliban and Al Qaida had a high priority longer. This challenge was minimal. ISAF, on the other hand, which SV has supported, was highlighted as a contribution that was positive in combination with other measures. This debate has now repeatedly pointed out that it is the case that ISAF is dependent on Enduring Freedom in order to provide the necessary security of mission. It's a rewrite of reality. Of course, ISAF could handle this whole mission, including what ‘Enduring Freedom’ does to ensure the security of ISAF. Of course, technically, you could do that. However, it has not been possible for NATO countries to prioritise this sufficiently in relation to the number of forces in ISAF, in particular by establishing stabilisation laws around Afghanistan. Therefore, NATO has based itself on ‘Enduring Freedom’ as a security guarantor. This has been the case in the United Kingdom in the past, and there is nothing at all about the NATO countries' willingness to place forces on Afghanistan and ISAF. The fight against the Taliban and Al Qaida is almost complete, but this is not the most important thing. Now that the United States has asked for assistance in ‘Enduring Freedom’, it is not to meet the need for security for the population of Afghanistan or for a new major offensive against the Taliban and Al Qaida. It's worth pointing out what Arne Strand of the Christian Michelsens Institute says to the Class Battle today, where he points out the great shift of the Enduring Freedom force that is now happening up against the Iran border. There are several who now claim that what the Government intends to support is a redemption of the forces that are on their way to other goals. The question will then be: is this realistic? Is it Norway's task to contribute to this? The answer should be no. But why will the Government, and probably a large majority, contribute to new special soldiers in «Enduring Freedom»? Is it because the Government believes that if we now once again contribute to showing the flag in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, will we be supported once we need it? Is it because the Government believes this is important for the fight against terrorism? Or is it, in fact, that this is a support scheme for the next United States advances in this region, despite the fact that everyone points out that Iran's situation cannot be resolved by military means? There are significant problems related to the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation. The objective is unclear, and the methods are questionable if there is really peace to contribute to. As far as Iraq is concerned, it is of course positive that elections have now been held in Iraq. This is an important step. But, of course, it is not that the issue is not debated to a large extent here in the Chamber today, which means that one recognises that the Iraq war was the right choice. It is a war of international law which has led to enormous suffering for an enormous number of innocent people, a war that could have been avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1009	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that EU cooperation plays a significant role in peace, security and democracy in Europe. In the debate, no one has disputed this. That is gratifying, because in the debate on EU cooperation outside this Chamber there are quite other points of view that are being prejudiced. The Foreign Minister then pointed out that the new Treaty, when it enters into force, will reinforce the challenges facing us in Norway to safeguard our interests in the EEA Agreement. Not only have there been several countries that have chosen the EU as their partner, but the decisions will be moved more to the EU Parliament and the Council. Thus, while EU cooperation is increasingly affecting us, our ability to influence the decisions we are affected is weakening. An important example to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs referred is the dynamics of the development of cooperation in foreign and security policy. If the transatlantic dialogue takes place more strongly between the EU and the United States, what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said would confront us with significant challenges. We can risk being stuck in the hall, even when the framework of our foreign policy is designed, despite NATO membership. What do we do with that? That question was not addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But it is a core issue that we cannot leave behind, and as the Prime Minister said, it will be a new element in our assessment of our relationship with EU cooperation. There will be a very important moment next to the question of whether we should have the right to vote in the cooperation that affects us in so many areas. The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, believes that instead we should look at the opportunities we have outside the EU. She'll get a excited connection to it from me, in Gro Harlem Brundtland's spirit. What has happened since 1994 is that every time the EU has expanded its cooperation, we have asked for it, and we have received it, except for foreign and security policy. One of the opportunities that Kristin Halvorsen pointed to is to bet on bilateral security agreements with countries with which we have a common interest, for example. our Nordic neighbouring country and/or Germany. The exciting thing is that these countries that have chosen the EU as the framework for their European cooperation want and want such a bilateral agreement with us. However, it is gratifying that Kristin Halvorsen clearly believes that, for example. Sweden and Finland, despite their EU membership, may conclude a security policy agreement with Norway. So the European Union will not prevent such freedom of action from these countries. But in that case, it is difficult to understand that Kristin Halvorsen can at the same time feel that EU membership will limit our ability to be a peace brokerage. It was also interesting to note that Kristin Halvorsen now recognized that NATO has had a historic role to play, at least until the fall of the Berlin Wall. With regard to our opportunities to safeguard our interests in EU cooperation, British EU parliamentarian Diana Wallis recently called for parliamentarians from EEA countries to be given the opportunity to take part in European Parliament committee debates on issues relating to the whole of the EEA area, even if we cannot have a formal role in legislation. It's a recording that we should grab. It will strengthen the link with the EU body which will have more influence in the EU decision-making process when the new Treaty enters into force. If we are to be more able to influence decisions in the EU, we must also get into the process of the EU system earlier. It will also give us a wider link between the Scientific Committees of the EEAS and the European Parliament. An increasing proportion of the laws adopted by the Grand Duchy originate from EU cooperation. In this respect, greater and earlier attention should be paid to the legislative process in the EU — previous attention because it can increase our ability to influence before decisions have been taken, and greater attention so that, in the political debate and in the social debate in general, the links between the commitment cooperation we through the EEA are directly influenced by, and the opportunities and limitations it offers in national policies. It would be a new special arrangement. I agree with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that all the special arrangements can make us a special nation. But the alternative is to be a nation without special influence over its own interests, and it's even worse. For this reason, we should also consider giving large-scale representatives a greater opportunity to follow the work in the EU over a period of time, for example. by hospitating at the EU delegation, as we do at the UN delegation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1042	There has been an important and interesting debate, on the basis of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement, because, today, domestic policy and foreign policy belong closely together. The flood disaster in Southeast Asia has put preparedness and crisis management firmly on the agenda. As the rapporteur for the two major messages on social security, which have been addressed during this period, I look forward to a greater awareness of preparing for the unmistakable to happen, and that we all have a responsibility. In this context, I would like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has now established two crisis teams and implemented an upgrade of the instruments available to us. In addition, the government-appointed sample shall be given time to work and draw its conclusions. The Christian People's Party is ready to follow the recommendations of the sample. Norway is in dialogue with the EU on enhanced cooperation in civil crisis management. Exchange of skills and experience makes us all better. The EU's intention to establish its own strength for civilian crisis management is therefore positive. Norway has established a civil crisis management preparedness team abroad, with personnel from all parts of the legal chain. This force — or the ‘Strength Well’, as it is called — has already been attracted on several occasions, for example in Georgia, where it helps with reforms in the justice sector. As mentioned above, preparedness and crisis management were the focus of the tsunami, but equally important is the happy world community shown. It's important that we follow up those who were hit by the river wave. The Red Cross is now expressing concern that the tsunami victims are being forgotten. We can't allow that. The international community has to think long-term and set it up when it needs to. It is equally important to see the ‘slow tsunami’, for example: Sudan and the many people who need help to survive and eventually have the opportunity to build their society to get a better daily life. The Organisation for Cooperation and Security in Europe, the OSCE, is at a crossroads. Norway is actively involved in the discussion on reform of the organisation. The Christian People's Party is pleased that Knut Vollebæk has become a member of the OSCE's reform panel, which will make recommendations on how the OSCE should expand its role in the European security architecture. As a member of the OSCE delegation, I see the organisation among others. as an important meeting place to become known, have the opportunity to discuss challenges, share experience and provide support to each other. It is important to prevent the OSCE from being perceived as one-sidedly focused on criticism of countries in the east. It's about democracy and human rights work. The OSCE’s efforts in Ukraine clearly demonstrated that the organisation has an important role to play as an observer of elections and in the management of regional and national crises. Finally, the Christian People's Party has been a driver for setting the framework for which our soldiers can participate. Our military defence is the sharpest and most destructive political instrument we have. At the same time, it has an important dimension of peace. In their education, the soldiers learn about the values of defence, ethics, morality, international law and cultural understanding, and it is important for the work we send them into. Equally important is that we politicians take care of our boys and girls by facilitating good follow-up, both before they go out on international missions, while they're out, and when they get home. They represent Norway and do an important job for us, a job they're proud of, and we politicians have to be responsible for, once we've sent them into international missions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1058	The Council of State began its presentation by referring to 1905, when Norway became an independent nation, and that this year is a marker year, 100 years after the Union resolution. A lot has happened in Norway since 1905. Among other things, Norway has gained sovereignty over sea areas six times larger than Norway’s land. Most of this is located west and north of North Norway – the northern regions. These maritime areas represent enormous challenges for Norway in relation to the environment and resource management. SV believes that the Nordic regions are down-priority in Norwegian foreign policy. Nor does Norway give priority to supporting US policies in Iraq and Afghanistan rather than developing Norwegian administrative policies in the northern regions. And typically, it's been two years since the NOU 'Mot Nord!' came and the government announced a north-eastern announcement. SV believes that the North must be given much more attention in the future, because they represent our greatest international challenge in terms of safety, resource management and the environment. Russia and the United States are increasing the extraction of oil and gas in the Barents Sea. This leads to a radical increase in oil transport along the Norwegian coast. Our oil preparedness is facing major challenges. Today we are in deficit. Our main fishing areas are in the Barents Sea. The biggest threat to cod stocks is illegal predatory fishing, which has an extent of approx. One billion dollars a year. The lack of allocation to the Coast Guard has contributed to the fact that one of four seagoing vessels with helicopters is at berth in Blackland instead of inspecting the Barents Sea. We do not manage our resources well enough. Barents cooperation, previously initiated by Minister of Foreign Affairs Thorvald Stoltenberg in 1993, has been reduced in recent years. In 2003, the budget was 30 million. kr. This year it's reduced by 9 million. NOK 21 million. kr. Cooperation in the Barents region today goes a lot because of its own weight and idealism and without the necessary support from the state. Old and poorly secured nuclear power stations and nuclear stocks on the Russian side in the north are a constant threat to the environment, with a risk of radioactive contamination. In addition, nuclear installations need to be secured against theft and terrorism. Only effective, international and long-term cooperation with Russia on nuclear safety in the north is good enough and should be integrated into Barents' cooperation in the future. In a short time, the Government will have to make a significant distinction with regard to prioritising the northern areas of Norwegian foreign policy. It needs to give significantly greater attention to putting in place an agreement with Russia on the sustainable management of the Barents Sea. Cooperation in the Arctic Council on environmental and climate policy measures in the Arctic areas must be given priority, and it must eventually signal a significant increase in Barents cooperation. We need a ‘barents billion’ to further develop industrial and inter-population cooperation in the Barents region. Today, Norway spends nearly 400 million. kr on support for the US Warriors in Afghanistan and Iraq, while we spend 21 million. kr on Barents cooperation. This is a good illustration of how lowly our policy in the north is. Our biggest foreign policy challenges lie in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1081	If we look at this debate in about a decade's perspective, we can establish some facts. The first is that we and many others have become tremendously richer in these ten years. Many have changed. Very much is equally unresolved. One of the things that is similar now and ten years ago is the power we face when it comes to genocide, war crimes, that we can experience multiple places around the world. Sudan is an example. It took a long time for an agreement to come into place. We still don't know if the agreements work, but we have to work to keep them, and Darfur isn't yet under control. The power solution in Darfur can recall the power solution we saw ten years ago in relation to Rwanda and Burundi. A registered what happened, but one was unable to handle it. Maybe it wasn't possible to handle it either. Or what we saw in Bosnia-Herzegovina: We witnessed what happened. Presidents and less nice people landed at the airport in Sarajevo from time to time. They had two hours of hope, and the rest was gray everyday for most. This is actually much more than a discussion about Norwegian contributions to Sudan or other places, because this is about how we can organise the international community so that we can deal with such conflicts, such situations. Maybe that's not possible. Maybe it's possible to get a little bit further. What is pointed out by the Foreign Minister and everyone else, about a more effective UN, is of course a contribution. But neither can we escape a stronger regional organisation. Africa is mentioned, but there is no doubt that what has happened in Europe in the last ten years, with the strengthening of regional organisations NATO and the EU, has helped to stabilise Europe, including the troubled parties of Europe, although we can say that Kosovo is as unresolved today as it was five years ago, but less acute than six years ago. The question is whether we are able to organise this in a better way. Then there is no way past regional organisations that can interact with the UN. There, Norway has to contribute financially and in other ways to get these organisations in place and to get them to assume their responsibilities. Some of the new things are that the disorder we saw in Europe ten years ago is taking the form of a new order. The EU and NATO are platforms for most countries in Europe. We often talk about NATO just as an organisation involved in operations outside Europe. I believe that one of the most important roles of NATO has been the stabilising force that NATO has had in Europe by addressing new Member States. We tend to underestimate this, but it has been one of NATO's great successes over the last ten years. Then we have the fact that NATO is involved in keeping the United States inside Europe. At the same time, NATO is involved in keeping Europe together. It is NATO's role in addition to the role that NATO plays outside Europe. The second fact is that very many countries in Europe have chosen NATO and the EU or the EU as a platform to address their needs and interests internationally. Norway is one of the few countries that has chosen only NATO as a platform to manage their interests. This is not an emergency situation for Norway. But it is, as the Foreign Minister also suggested, a question of a strategic choice for Norway, not in the sense that NATO will disappear and become irrelevant, because it is in Norwegian interest to keep NATO relevant also in Europe, but it is a new NATO, and it is a stronger EU. What we hear is an indication, and as I think it might be important in this debate, are those who in this situation see that Norway will in future be based on a bilateral foreign policy, managing its interests only through bilateral agreements with this or that organisation, with this or that neighbouring country or anyone else. There is no dangerous road for a small country. We need to come up with a policy in which we have a proper international back coverage for our positions, for our policies. Maybe it'll be the EU, maybe it'll be something else. But that's the question we have to ask: are we going to deal with our interests through bilateral agreements like a small state, or are we going to find a platform where we need to coordinate our policies with the interests of others, but where, in return, we can ensure that our interests reach the most important areas? The Nordic policy, to which we will come back, is a good example of this, because in the north Norway will discover that there is not one country that has common interests with Norway at all points. There will be conflicting interests, and we must choose to cooperate where we can get the most support in the most important areas. Nordic policy is the best example of Norway not being able to go into a future where we build our foreign policy only on bilateral agreements, like a free-flowing state other than all the large blocks, when everyone else joins the stronger organizations of the international community. That's the real question that hung out after some of the articles we've been listening to here today, for example. The article by Kristin Halvorsen early in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1100	It's been less than two months since the terrible tsunami disaster in Southeast Asia, and already we see that the media search lights are no longer the same. Of course, many would say, because the conflicts and the news are moving across the globe. But what we are now facing is a very different challenge: how we can help build up and rebuild the areas affected over the years. It is a major challenge for Norwegian foreign service, it is a major challenge for humanitarian organisations, and it is not least a major challenge in cooperation with local authorities, with state authorities and with the local population of the countries and cities to be built up. Unfortunately, we have many examples that this kind of long-term construction, which is not always in the media's searchlight or in the public interest, is not always as successful. It's now an intense desire from a lot of organizations and a lot of states to succeed better this time than you've done before, and it's also our heartfelt desire to do it. But this disaster will still be in us for many, many years. It will mean that we as a nation, both citizens and state, who exemplaryly set up with great resources to assist with emergency aid and assist in building up, are also able to remember this when other conflicts take interest from us and make it more natural to spend sums of money on them than on what will eventually become an old conflict many years ago. Let me also say that I agree with the perspective that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had when it came to Northern Region policy, namely that it is very different from the time they discussed northern areas before the fall of the Wall. That means that we have completely different challenges related to how to deal with the many challenges that are in the North. In this way I think there have been many good posts here today, all of which have the perspective that this should increasingly have and must have attention from the Stortinget and Norwegian Foreign Service. The reasons for this are, of course, many, but the main reason is related to resources and to the large seas. Many people have clear insights into how this will work, but we have seen that it has progressed in many different fields, for example. In the case of cooperation between Norway and North-West Russia, however, there are many remaining issues. Let me focus on two things that are very crucial in this. It's Barents' cooperation where we need to strengthen our focus. When the Council of State is about to evaluate Barents' cooperation, we strongly believe that a stronger parliamentary basis for this can be a solution to get a stronger parliamentary anchor in this cooperation. It also means that we need to find the means to strengthen this cooperation in order to assist in a positive development, and it has been a positive development, albeit not as quickly as many would have seen. The Barent area as such is one of the most important areas of Norwegian foreign policy. Not least, it is infinitely important for the Russians in North-West Russia. The reason for this is mainly related to the resources available in the Barents Sea. We have unresolved conflicts with Russia related to the dividing line between Norway and Russia. It doesn't have to stand in the way of enhanced cooperation. This is particularly linked to oil and gas. Many on the Norwegian side have a very strong belief that Russian side will come in very quickly with the drilling and development of the Barents Sea on the Russian side, which means that we need to strengthen decisions on the Norwegian side to be involved. Here I think you're going to be a little bit sober, because evolution on the Russian side is still so that as far as you know, they haven't gone out into the Barents Sea yet. Still oil and gas production on the mainland of the Kola peninsula. That means that all the oil cargo that goes down the Norwegian coast is a significant security challenge, because many of these ships are not necessarily of the quality we want. So you haven't taken the jump out yet. Although large fields have been identified, for example: is the Shtokman field, as far as I know, 20 times larger than Snow White and one of the very largest gas finds available – this is 60 miles out in the ice. So there are major technological challenges if it's to be possible to transport this to land. The Russians have now increasingly invested their money in this sector on Kamchatka, i.e. on the other side of Russia. Now you operate away in Vladivostok and on that side. Many on the Norwegian side may say that this is unfortunate, but it is because the infrastructure is much better. Climatic conditions also make it easier to deal with the large resources that the Russians have. We on the Norwegian side have a much longer horizon, and some say that now we have to rush up to the Barents Sea, because we have to join before the Russians arrive. A sober assessment of this is that it will be many years before the Russians are in the Barents Sea. Norway is in the Barents Sea. This caution that we want from the SV in the Barents Sea, it's important that more people take with them, because we don't see any pressure here. In the foreseeable future, the Barents Sea should be primarily a fish resource, a protein bank for people and not for oil and gas extraction. But it is an important perspective to include in the debate on the north, namely a more accurate assessment of the development of the Russians in the Barents region.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1118	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1121	At the bottom of this foreign debate, it is certainly right to note that the three parties in this Chamber who have worked for a long time to present themselves as a majority option for a possible government after the next elections have done a considerable amount of work in coordinating their policies in many areas. They seem to have come along with it, partly through compromises and partly through the fact that at least one has shown a willingness to converge in positions. It is quite remarkable that Norway's foreign and security policy has not been prioritised in this work, because at least I can't remember in this big period that I have participated in some foreign debate where the distance between the Workers' Party on the one hand and the Centre Party and SV on the other has been greater. This concerns both the reality of the situation and the means available to us to pursue a future-oriented foreign and security policy for Norway. It's a cross of thought. I hope that does not mean that responsibility for the government of Norway is given lower priority than responsibility for energy policy or economic policy or other policy areas. I have to say that it doesn't bother me very much, the idea of how to get these completely different realities to jump. It's almost necessary for a government to do so. The SV has clearly highlighted in today's debate that one is still living in a reality where, for the first time, NATO should never have been able to do so; secondly, it should have been closed with the Warsaw Pact and, thirdly, in practice is dying. It's a mildly real-life perception, and it lacks, as far as I can see, any contact with reality. Nevertheless, later on the fact that the party will also program the same position to NATO for the next majority period. In fact, there is no multinational tool left, either for the United Nations or for anyone else, to resolve urgent international conflicts. Thorbjørn Jagland started the debate on «geopolitical earthquakes», and he said that so far Norwegian policy has largely solved it by keeping its ears and eyes in mind. In view of the course of this debate, it was a prophetic statement concerning the two future government partners he is thinking of.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1130	No more people have asked for the word on case 1. [[See page 1624]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1146	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will suggest that there are no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. This shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1153	I'm not going to spend my 5 minutes, and I don't think this debate is going to be as long as the previous one. But nevertheless, it is to the extent that a very interesting issue is raised by the proposers, the staging representatives May Hansen, Sigbjørn Molvik and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, address in their Document No. Proposals for equalising maternity benefits with sickness benefits in the pension, long-term care and temporary work agreements, as well as in relation to the right to holiday pay, especially given that maternity benefits are used to a small extent in relation to sickness benefits. The Committee would point out that, as long as such a system is in place, it should be made known and used where necessary, instead of using a search report. A unanimous committee has noted that the Government will continue to inform about the scheme and that the social security system is also being asked to increase information, both internally and in relation to individuals and health centres. The Committee has also noted that the Government will come to the Stortinget with proposals for changes to the maternity allowance scheme, which will also assess the right to holiday pay from maternity pay. A majority, all other than the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, therefore consider it appropriate to await the case until the Government promotes a case for the Stortingen on the birth grant scheme, and therefore proposes that Document No. 8:10 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1166	Maternity benefits were introduced as a right in 1988. The responsibility of the public interest to cover holiday pay of birth and adoption allowances was introduced with effect from 1 January 1990. The amount of the holiday money was set at 12 weeks, although the birth grant period at that time was 20 weeks. Since then, the rules on holiday pay have not been subject to material changes, although the benefit period has been substantially extended. The maternity allowance does not pay for the holiday money. Holiday pay is paid out of sick pay for the first sick pay days of the year. A woman who has been diagnosed during pregnancy will therefore be economically better off than women who receive maternity benefits. This is a moment that has an unfortunate effect on the use of maternity benefits. The extra cost of social security by granting the right to holiday pay from maternity benefits has previously been estimated at about 8 million. kr. This is not correct either, because they are only moved from the health budget to another budget. There is a very small amount of money to correct an unreasonable difference between sickly reported women and the women receiving maternity benefits. This unfairness leads to an over-representation of sick leave statistics of pregnant women, which also affects health money statistics for women in general. Maternity benefit is a scheme to be used when the employer is unable to facilitate the working situation of the woman and when the child is harming his or her professional activity. This could be done, for example, by: are women in the paint industry and other vulnerable professions in which they are subject to an influence liable to cause harm to the child. Many employers today refuse to accommodate their pregnant workers, and some employers do not have the opportunity to offer other jobs. These women are not sick, nor are they to be sick. But that's what's being done to a large extent, because women are losing financially to going on maternity pay. This gives a distorted picture of the sick leave of women, and the fact that women are sick also relieves the employer of the responsibility for facilitating women in pregnancy, which is a right of women and which could help more pregnant women to continue working until the start of leave. In worst-case cases, a woman may choose to continue working for financial reasons, even if it is harmful to the child. A letter from the Council of State Laila Davay of 26 November 2004 points out that the Department is working on a proposal for changes to the maternity benefit scheme. State councils will also be assessed on the right to holiday pay from maternity pay. The Committee therefore considers it appropriate to await the matter until the Government promotes a case for the Storting in which the entire maternity benefit scheme is discussed. I think that's defensive. This really has nothing to do with birth money. This is a system for caring for the child in pregnancy, in order to protect it from external influences that may harm it. It's a very good system that's been very little informed about. One of the proposals that SV is making here today is therefore to make the system of maternity benefits better known. What we are doing today by not dealing with this proposal is forcing some women to continue to get sick, with all the negative consequences it has for women's sick leave statistics. You're defined as sick without being sick. It is discriminatory and meets the need for resettlement in pregnancy. I believe that the Council of State and the Department could have cleaned this up now, because it has nothing to do with holiday money according to birth money. This has to be compared to sick pay. I would challenge the Council of State to get on the road quickly with the proposal to change the birth grant scheme. We are constantly seeing through the press how pregnant people are being subjected to unreasonable arrangements. We need a review now. I'm addressing the proposal. I would like to end by saying that the parties that are most offensive in this area in this Chamber are, in fact, the Centre Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1183	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1186	First, I want to say that it is very positive that SV raises this issue through Document No. The 8 proposal proposes that maternity benefits should be equated with sickness benefits and that maternity benefits should be given the same entitlement to holiday allowances as sickness benefits. SV’s representative gave a thorough review of today’s situation, and not least of today’s practice, and also had a good argument for this proposal. The Central Party fully supports what Mr. May Hansen said from the pulpit. I want to stress the unfortunate fact that women may take out sick leave because of the economy. It must be much better to get what I call economic equality. Then we will also be able to separate more real figures, and that seems to me to be important when it comes to statistics and evidence of real-life disease associated with pregnancy. I also want to focus on what is in the setting, what the case spokesperson said, and what I think the Council of State will say. I would like to point out that this is positive, because even though the proposal that SV and the Central Party are behind is being voted down today, I choose to interpret the setting so that this is a matter that will soon be brought forward for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1195	The maternity benefit scheme is an important scheme for pregnant women. It allows healthy pregnant women to stop working without losing income when the working environment creates a risk for foetal development. The right to maternity benefits is linked to risk factors in the working environment. The scheme therefore draws attention to the problems created by working life for a pregnant woman. It is a condition for entitlement to maternity benefits that organisation or re-location to other work has been assessed. The scheme therefore focuses on employers’ responsibilities for organisation and helps to make structural reasons for the absence of pregnant women visible. This is important from a gender perspective. A recent research report on absenteeism in pregnancy, from Wergeland and Silverberg points out that there is a large absence among pregnant women. This maintains the picture of pregnant women as a problem for working life, which may weaken women’s position and maintain traditional gender roles. According to Wergeland and Svervberg, the absence can be reduced by better organisation. Greater attention to the maternity benefit scheme may stimulate the organisation of employers, which in turn may have a long-term, beneficial effect on the absence of pregnant women. There is still under-use of the maternity benefit scheme, which is also too little known. As I explained in my letter to the Stortinget in November, in a consultation note on simplifications in the birth money code, which I sent out this summer, I have proposed to legislate on the right to graduated maternity money. Graduated maternity benefits provide an opportunity to reduce working time without financial loss. I also discussed the possibility of covering any loss of pay when relocating pregnant women. I am now working on an odelstingsproposition as a follow-up to this consultation note. Today, however, the main issue is the lack of holiday pay. Lack of holiday pay means that the pregnant woman gets worse financially when she receives maternity benefits than when she receives sickness benefits. The report on the need for absence in pregnancy highlights the lack of entitlement to holiday pay from maternity benefits as one of the main reasons for the low use of the maternity benefit scheme. The Committee proposes to make maternity benefits equivalent to sickness benefits in this area. I am now considering this proposal in the context of the proposal on simplification of the birth grant legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1208	Very briefly, I appreciate the fact that the Council of State gives the signals she's doing, and I really forgot to say in my post that I think it's with graduated maternity money is a brilliant suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1213	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1624]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1233	All the fight against crime is largely about priority. We need to prioritise quite as much within the criminal justice chain – where we need to place the resources that this house grants to fight crime, whether in prisons, in courts or in the police. On the issue of combating crime, the debate on priorities also extends further. We need to give much greater priority in the future, including in the light of the proposed criminal law, to how we use the most stringent coercive means in society, namely the use of penalties. And finally, and that's what's behind the interpellation today, we're also more likely to have to prioritize in the future what kind of crime we want is to be caught up in the power of society, and what kind of crime we want society to dwell on in the future. I know more people who, in the course of the last year, escaped, and also years will not experience the burden it will be to be characterized as a criminal proselytizer. We see more beggars, and we're glad that Norway actually moves the focus from the support and seeks to get not only focus on, but also an offensive in relation to what we don't see so well in the streetscape, what's more hidden. The question is, do we get enough time? As we run after the drug addicts up and down Karl Johan's street in Oslo, we leave money laundering messages of over 150 million. kr be lying down without anyone from the side of society with the first lifting a finger relative to it. It's a cross of thought that while Ökokrim last year received well 5,000 reports on money laundering, yes, it's just under 100 of these that result in some kind of criminal prosecution. It gives us a signal that here we have a big challenge just to catch up with what is an important part of the rug compared to what many of us experience as serious international-distinction crime. It is also the case, as indicated by the interpellation, that much of the money that is now perceived to be in the black economy, compared to an estimated DKK 140 billion, in fact – in addition to being the result of a criminal offence – contributes to financing new and serious crime. It may be crime related to weapons or illicit drug trafficking. There may also be issues of more serious crime, such as: the financing of terrorism. Therefore, there is reason to be concerned that so few money laundering messages result in activity by the authorities. I'm just going to say that this isn't an easy investigation. I would also like to say that my intention of the interpellation is not to say that Økokrim in Norway is doing a bad job, rather on the contrary. I am reasonably impressed that, based on the resources that Ecocrim actually has, and on the complex issues that Ecocrim has moved in, it has been able to achieve such a high rate of conviction in relation to the issues that you are actually opening. However, it is still the case that in the last four to five years, when we have talked about combating economic crime, the number of reports investigated in relation to economic crime has actually declined. This is a rather small part of the total researched crime in Norway. You're talking about that under 2 pst. reports are related to what is defined as financial crime. This request is for the Worker Party to be taken seriously. If we manage to fight some of this type of crime, it could have major ring-fences of a positive nature, compared to actually being able to reduce other types of serious crime. In addition, this is a form of crime that can be easily used by society's coercive agents. You have a wide range of coercive agents. You have the opportunity to use the traditional, to detain those who actually commit such acts as serious economic crimes, of course. But society and this house have also made it possible, among other things. to target the large flows of money, by increasing the use of withdrawals of money generated in connection with illegal activities. It is therefore sad that we see that there has been no greater speed in the use of withdrawal in Norway than what has actually been done in recent years. Here, not only the Ministry of Justice, but also those who are set to do these jobs, a great task, just to hit this kind of financial crime. And then it's like seagoing about the number of reviews going down and we see that only a few of the total reviews are related to traditional economic crime, it's not a sign that the situation is on the right track, rather the opposite. I guess this is the area where we operate to the highest degree with very large numbers of darkness. One of the motivations of the Workers' Party for this to be something we should invest in and get done with is that in the long run this will also weaken much of the funding of the welfare society we want to develop and expand in the years to come. With that I have not said that these are easy things to investigate. Stakeholders participating, inter alia: in money laundering, and which is behind the large black cash flows that Norway is also involved in — both financial institutions and others — having great resources and opportunities and also a great deal of ability to conceal its own crime. That is why, in such an interpellation debate, we are also comforted by the fact that when Økokrim and the local police districts have been involved in heavy economic criminal cases, we have seen that it has been possible to obtain results, not only in relation to the common judges in the form of severe prison sentences, but it has also been possible to collect significant amounts of money. There are two instruments that I want to challenge the Government in relation to this debate, and that have been addressed separately today. With regard to one instrument to combat this type of crime with illegal money flows, the question is how to apply and implement the new law on money laundering. It must be a cross-thinking that notifications of money laundering, or at least of amounts on which to check whether they have been the subject of money laundering, remain on a large scale and are not even in a position to investigate them. It is a paradox that this type of crime, as demonstrated by the Government's Action Plan on Economic Crime, has been reinforced by four posts to identify precisely this problem of money laundering, when we look at what other types of resources we are willing to deploy. It must be possible to use some more resources in this area, especially at a time when the Storting has actually said that more resources are needed in relation to police action. We also see that several of these later money laundering messages have proved to be directly related to pyramid activities, which have caused a great deal of damage and a lot of other crime, not only to those who are directly involved in these large amounts of money, but also to others. We see that there are major challenges in relation to the part of the authority apparatus that is to be accepted, among other things. money laundering messages, to what extent they are handled. While a very detailed set of rules on how financial institutions and others have to establish electronic monitoring of cash flows, it does not appear that Ecocrim has the same equipment capability and the same technical possibility for both analysing and receiving such messages. The second instrument that I want to challenge the state council today is what I mentioned instead, withdrawal. The question is to what extent an exceptional measure has been taken or has the possibility to be taken in order to be able to recover more of the money that is being mapped out to be illegal, and to what extent prosecution authorities and police have the opportunity to increase the number of withdrawal cases, and not just look at the amount of withdrawal. The Government's Action Plan on Economic Crime states: ‘We have essentially a good regulatory framework for the prevention and combating of financial crime. However, it is a main task to follow up all the changes in practice.’» This interpellation is an attempt to address this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1265	It is an important objective of the Government to prevent and combat crime in society. It is also the case that today we find in our country a wide range of different criminal acts, all of which must give the necessary priority to the actors in the criminal justice chain. Very many offences have a typical purpose of winning. This applies to the traditional theft crime, to the more organised and international crime and to the typical financial crime. This also includes what we usually call economic crime, where the offender in various ways obtains some significant financial benefits in a law-enforcement way. This exposes individuals, businesses and the community to the risk of large losses of value. Economic crime must be combated by measures that improve and simplify the ability of the police and prosecution authorities to resolve the offences, and one must ensure that the perpetrators are not left with illegally obtained profits. The government has put in place a long-term strategy for the fight against economic crime. In the summer of 2002, a project to combat corruption and money laundering was established. Through this project, in the popular language called the Eva Joly project, the Government has developed its action plan against financial crime. It is based on both marked developments in international legislation in this area and on several new national legal provisions adopted here in the country. Among other things, we have have received new criminal provisions against corruption and organised crime, new competition law, money laundering law, currency registration law and amendments to the rules on the access of tax authorities to require control information from banks, etc. The action plan includes several actions that will be taken gradually to increase the response to economic crime. Ecocrim is at the heart of police and prosecution work in this area. In 2004, the unit was strengthened by four new annual works, with a view to improving the handling of communications from financial institutions on possible cases of money laundering. Recently, Ecocrim established a separate department for strategic analysis such as: shall carry out analysis work related to money-laundering messages. At present, an Ecocrim project is in progress to clarify the various issues related to the possible acquisition of a new computer system to support the work of the many money laundering messages. There is a need for better and more targeted police competence in investigating financial crime. Multi-disciplinary eco-teams are therefore established in police districts, with legal, police and economic expertise represented. The members of the teams shall be offered specific training through a course at the Police College. In order to strengthen the professional knowledge of the police in this field, a separate subject should also be developed at the Police College for Financial Investigation. A separate training programme for the investigation of financial crime, the Ecostudy, which has already been completed several times, is now to be an annual course at the Police College. The anti-corruption and money laundering project will visit all police districts of the country to provide training and guidance on the investigation of various forms of financial crime. It is also the case, as the representative of Storberget pointed out, that the number of notifications of possible cases of money laundering has increased significantly through the changes in the law. The home we now have is wider than the one we used to have. That is why we have also seen an increase in the number of notifications on possible money laundering, and the number in 2004 was 6,000. Most of these relate to pure transfers of funds registered by companies that exchange or transfer money. Ecocrime expects this development to continue. It is currently not possible to search all the messages received by Ecocrim, but it is also possible to store the messages and later use them to provide useful information. It is also the case that the message itself, when it is alone, is rarely investigated. However, all communications relating to information already available are being investigated, which together give rise to various grounds for suspecting criminal offences. Ecocrim shall report on the use of resources and the results in relation to the management of money laundering messages by 1 March of this year, not least in view of the increase in last year's effort in this area, which has been earmarked for money laundering. Ecocrime has a clear desire and ambition to simplify the work on money laundering messages. By September this year we hope to be able to receive the messages electronically, and not by paper as today. The project I referred to, with a new electronic message processing system, aims to end up in a system where the analysis of the messages itself goes automatically. This will increase and improve the processing of all messages by Ecocrim. In order to get to work, this also requires a multidisciplinary approach, not only by the fact that the police have police auditors in their midst, but also by the excellent work created in relation to tax auditors. I've previously said from Stortinget's pulpit that the tax auditors are in many ways some of society's important front soldiers in the social mobilization against money laundering and economic crime. It is true that many new types of crime – which I agree with the representative of Storberget yesterday about neglecting the community money – also require a mobilization in the police. We know from other contexts that there is a process going on, for example: in the fight against the violence that is taking place in the hidden places of the homes. It is also true that when both Ecocrime and the anti-corruption and anti-money laundering projects are to visit the police districts, it is in order to participate in the broad cultural mobilization and build-up of competences that will take place in the police districts in order to take all that is happening in this area seriously. I also want to show that there are a number of other tools in place. This applies to tools that go on the side of issues that have been addressed, namely that housing should have a better financial basis to ensure the situation. In other words, it is necessary to see police action in cooperation with other representatives of the authorities. The representative of Storberget and I share our views on this – no matter what else we may feel about preventive measures by punishment – that if it is in one area at least that a prison sentence will really be marked, it is against economic crime. We very much agree on that. It is an area where the impact of the measures is very high. What I have done in this post is to outline the efforts we have made through the Action Plan against economic crime, through the anti-corruption project, through legislation and through the building of competences in the police districts. I believe that in the country we live in, with very large amounts of money on the move, in a country that is rich, and in a country where money is pure merchandise, which is used by most for good purposes, but by some for crazy purposes, competence will mobilize both in the police and across agencies, among others. be important to tax authorities and financial institutions. But the whole starting point is the understanding that everyone must agree on this. Let me, without being involved in this matter, refer to the wide range of attitude mobilisation that has taken place, for example. in order to obtain another type of non-easy matter. The representative used it to describe these issues, namely the mobilisation to deal with trafficking. If you have focus and you keep pressure, you also get results. The representative and I fully agree that when Ecokrim first addresses matters, they get results. So what I've explained here is that it systematically from the Government through the Joly project, through the Action Plan against economic crime and through the reports we are now asking for, is being added to a reinforced and broad mobilisation to combat economic crime, and in that context also the money laundering that is likely to take place. We do it because this kind of crime undermines the community's considerable resources, and in its extreme sense it can also undermine fair competition. In many contexts, it may affect those who are most vulnerable, not just individuals, but small and medium-sized enterprises, which form the backbone of the entire Norwegian economy. The representative and I share the basic view that we are facing a criminal activity that thrives best in the hidden, but that is to be challenged precisely because it is hidden, and because we cannot accept this type of undermining of the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1314	I thank you for your response. I am glad that we have the same basic attitude both to the description of the problem and to the tools to be put in when one has discovered that something is wrong. One of the reasons why the Workers' Party has actually chosen on several occasions to give priority to increasing subsidies for Ecocrime and the fight against economic crime is that we realise that this is very important in relation to other crime, but also that we have closed our eyes to this for too long in many ways, and that it constitutes a much larger proportion of the crime scene in Norway than the reporting statistics and crime statistics reflect. It is also a pleasant effect to bet on this type of investigation, if the instrument of withdrawal is included, namely that this is an investigation that will in fact also contribute to the public and community's earning money in the long term. So here's the actual expenditure on the acquisition of income. Some of us believe that this is an area we really should have raised to a much greater extent, and so it's a huge paradox that the visible crime, often committed by the out-of-street support, gets as much political attention and as much economy from the police and prosecution authorities as it actually does and has got today, while this is something we spend in many ways relatively little money on. News from Sweden today indicate that the situation is similar: there are a significant number of messages about money laundering, but there are very few things that are actually being addressed. There are three issues that I think we should bring with us in the debate, and on which I want to challenge the government parties. First of all, it is a question of being willing to spend much more resources on Ecocrim and these eco-teams out in the police districts, once more money has been used by the police. Do you want to make a significant contribution to this type of crime? That would be important. The second question is: are the eco-teams that are notified and that should probably start this new year, now up and go in the police districts? That's where the main effort against this type of crime actually has to be made. Ecocrime can only be the body that in many ways becomes the front figure, while the main work and the everyday work must be done out. Finally, I would also like to challenge the Minister of Justice for something that he did not have in mind: are you now willing to follow further the recommendations that the Financial Action Task Force, which Norway is affiliated to, gave to Norway, and to which one has not actually fully joined, so that we can get a completely good regulatory framework, especially in the area of money laundering? I am thinking in particular of the question of registration obligations for legal persons, which I understand the Council of State has previously warned that it is at least positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1331	First, I want to reserve myself against the fact that the police will give priority to running for poor poor people. It's not a priority. In such contexts, the police are often the social workers of society in the front line, where they cooperate with social activities. I've been criticized in the past to bet on fighting organized crime. I know that I've done that, and I think it's important. But I see that the main point is: what can we do in practice? Retirement is a theme, yes. Among other things, we have through the Joly project, an excellent manual for all good police practitioners to improve the withdrawal tool. It's simply made a tailor's stitch that makes the footmen who are going to fight economic crime get a tool that they can use. I also want the withdrawal to be increased. It's a question that I'm in dialogue with the lawyer about, and I share the opinion that it's an important line. There's also been an increase here. In terms of all the FATF recommendations, we generally have good scores, and we follow up on the advice we get. Of course, we do it, both because the advice is good, and because we want – and also do it through the Joly project – to be a driver for good regulation. But it's right, as the representative is concerned, that we should first sweep at our own door. That is why extensive legislation has also been promoted by the Government. With regard to all the practical aspects of the efforts being made, I have just asked for a debriefing, because there has been a lot of construction per. 1 March of this year. I will, of course, wait for that report. When it comes to the use of resources, you can't use the heads many times. The working party must now obviously have used the crowns very many times in the fight against crime. That's what I want to ignore here. I would rather stick to the main point of the representative, namely that this crime should be combated. Then it gets to be so, then, when the police have been given increased resources through the agreement concluded between the government parties and the Progress Party, that the police districts individually and the Police Directorate really follow up. There is no doubt about this, including: through the questions I've asked about how to deal with financial crime, that they've been given the resources to focus on these issues. But I would like to stress that some of the issues are not easy, as the representative said. That's why we're also getting the insight that we bit by bit are building up the skills that make us really good. Now we've started on such a line in Norway, let's call it a Norwegian trick, to fight what's wrong. And then we also get the results. The representative is to be commended for agreeing to keep pressure on an area like this, for this is a crime that happens in the hidden, and we need a living and critical social debate to establish that it is an unacceptable form of crime. In sum, we have the same basic attitude, and in sum, I think we also like the tools to do. Then it's about making cultural changes and mobilizing both in the police and interdisciplinary towards tax authorities and all good forces. That's the strategies I'm going to adopt and put pressure on and energy in.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1352	Here in the country we have a good welfare system, but it can get better. I could have used all the three minutes I have to name people with different problems that might need better, more targeted, faster and more financial help. The revenue from taxes is absolutely necessary to maintain and preferably further develop our welfare system. "Do your duty, demand your right!" is one of the good old slogans of the Workers' Party. That the duty comes first is not random, and fortunately it is that the sense of justice is still very strong with the vast majority of the Nordics. Most people think that we pay our taxes, we also have the right to, for example, full sick pay or disability benefit if we get sick. Sneakers and cheaters have to be taken and have to pay back what they have been given too much or wrongfully acquired. I have been contacted on several occasions by bank employees who are frustrated at the job because they have been told to report suspicious transactions – they do, they feel that they are doing a good job, but then nothing happens. Several times, the same people come back to the same bankers and do the same thing over and over again. Then they say, "What is this?" I feel like I'm doing my job, something's happening illegally, but why isn't something happening? There is no one who takes care of it, and it frustrates them invisibly in their daily work. We can't have it that way. The distortions of competition between the white and black markets are also devastating for a normal and healthy white Norwegian business. You just can't survive. This in turn leads to more unemployment. At the same time, the black market is increasing, and in that market, it is impossible to create normal working conditions that are at times difficult to live with. Among other things, I have have received some examples from the cleaning industry that are really scary. There are those who are really trying to stick to laws and rules, just being out of competition by those who do it in a different way. It doesn't just go beyond those who are in the white industry, but it also affects us as customers. How in the name of heaven are we going to figure it out if it is that we can no longer get a bill, if at all we no longer have competition between white and black, but that the whole market has actually begun to get black? We have to fight that. It is not possible to keep it like this in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1365	The representative Storberget focuses his interpellation on a very important area. Through a number of media redundancies recently on individuals who have lost their savings in pyramid-like businesses, which enrich a few at the expense of others, we have seen that active efforts are needed to combat economic crime of a different nature. The government has prioritised this work very high. The government in 2004 developed a new action plan on economic crime, valid until 2007. There, the Government proposes a number of new measures that will lead to increased detection and more effective criminal prosecution of financial crime. This is important because economic crime is an activity that not only undermines our Norwegian economy, which both the Great Mountains and the Council of State were involved in, but which increasingly contributes to international organised crime which, in the worst case, undermines the economy, economic foundations and governance of other states, through the financing of terrorist networks and gerlic movements in the utmost consistency. The government has also promoted a number of legislative proposals. New criminal provisions against corruption and organised crime, new competition law, money laundering law, currency registration law and changes to the rules on tax authorities’ access to control information from banks have led to a significant strengthening of the law in this area. The fact that you have a law that is capable of capturing these cases is absolutely necessary. It is clear, however, that the investigation of economic criminal offences is all too complex and that it often takes time to detect criminal offences. This means that, in the future, we need to have a strong focus on strengthening the competences of those who work to discover this crime on a daily basis. As the Minister of Justice has explained in his statement, Økokrim was strengthened by four annual works in 2004 and multi-disciplinary eco-teams have been established in all police districts in 2004. This is also an important instrument for increasing the detection and conviction of these types of cases. The team has multidisciplinary competence and consists of police investigators, prosecutors and auditors. The police district has either established its own posts as a police auditor or has linked it to an assistant auditor from local county tax offices. This is a bet that Storberget appreciates, despite the fact that the Workers' Party does not prioritize the police when they make their alternative budgets, and he asks us to give priority to this within our additions to the budget. We take with us all good advice and wish Bigberg luck with the priority of the police in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1378	I shall begin by joining in the congratulations of the committee's chairman to Mr. The Great Mountain before I go on to what is the most important. What this interpellant is focusing on is really important. I fully share his intentions. I think the way we get an answer to this is through how we, as politicians, are taking the lead in combating this type of crime. It is the policy positions that ultimately produce results, through the economic framework conditions that we give to the police, and through the law that we make it possible to apply to this type of fight. In other words, it's the seventh and last time we have to come here, when we wonder why things are going well, or why things might not go well. Another challenge I think is the role of Ecocrim as part of the police. I think Ecokrim itself has a challenge to figure out its role and to be the tool that you expect them to be. In it it is that there must be a conscious focus of Ecocrim on their own role, and they must clarify it, because there is no doubt that there have been cases and individual cases in which Ecocrim itself has chosen not to go into, even though many others think they should have done so to their advantage. There may be good reasons why it was not done, but I think it has to do with the image and expectations of Ecocrim, and that it is also a key to success here. Therefore, it will be to make them visible in this type of fight against crime. It is also right that the representative of Storberget and the Council of State have been involved, that it is so that some other type of crime steals attention, and steals attention to a very large extent. That's why I think it'll be important for us once again to take the lead for which we want to achieve our own goals in the fight against white-collar crimes. As the representative of Storberget was also involved, this is a very large amount of money that is avoided annually. I also fully agree with those who have said that investment in this type of fight is in a way self-financing. I think that's a good point. It's in my opinion a kind of parallel to road safety control: if you do actions here that lead to taxes on funds, it will once again give back an effect that we can use for other types of control. If you were to try to sum up what's most important here, I think the answer to the seventh and last is the resources that we make available to the tool that is fighting, that's the law that they have to deal with, and that's not least how the perpetrators, those who want to take advantage of these loopholes, perceive that the law is: do they think Norwegian penalties and Norwegian penalties are comfortable? Then we have a challenge like this. I think we need to focus on all of these things if we're to succeed. Finally, it's the attitude of each of us, our attitude as individuals, that says something about whether we let this grow, or whether we don't let it grow. That's what the individual finds in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1393	On the SV side, we are very pleased that this interpellation has come up. For a long time now, we have focused on economic crime, the resources of Ecocrime, what kind of instruments we have when faced with actors who have a lot of power, a lot of competence and great opportunities to lure resources away from the community and enrich themselves. I therefore appreciate the fact that the Minister of Justice signals that he wants to use withdrawal to a much greater extent than he has so far – it is a terribly important instrument. Crime shouldn't pay off, that's what has to be at the bottom. We have an open economy, with companies operating in increasingly interconnected global markets. Deregulation of trade and capital flows increases competitive pressure and pressures profit margins in companies around the world. It is a development that lowers the threshold both for unethical behaviour and for economic crime. The same developments have stimulated a strong growth in the volume of stock exchange and foreign exchange trade, giving the economy more and more speculative insights and opening up adventurous opportunities for those who know how to enrich themselves in this market. We therefore promoted three proposals in November 2003. One was a prohibition on external auditors of large companies providing financial or legal advice to the same companies. The need for such regulation was made clear through the work of the Credit Authority, with their thematic supervision, and through some disclosures, among others. in the nations at that time. The representative of Onarheim from the Right was still out there and said he thought the Stortinge would clarify that it should be ensured that two different bodies had to take care of internal and external audits. Unfortunately, this proposal fell. The second thing we proposed was a ban on a company that takes corporate responsibility for a company not providing analyses of the same company at the same time. The stock market is very vulnerable to manipulation by actors that may have better access to information than other actors. It is difficult to prove what is behind the price development of a share. It is to a large extent the same companies that dominate the secondary market, which are also the largest in issues and stock market introductions. The fact that the information barrier operated too poorly internally in such companies was one of the reasons for the rapid growth of the global exchange bubble at the end of the 1990s. This proposal also fell, and we regret that. Thirdly, we proposed to reverse the burden of proof of suspicion of serious financial crime. It's also a very important proposal, as we see it. As far as I know, Eva Joly has also supported this proposal – it is nodded. We hope that there is something that the Minister of Justice will also go further. In addition, we have noticed that Ecokrim has a computer system from 1994, which has an analytical tool that is not suitable for the tasks they are facing. It's very worrying, especially since some people have been assigned to report suspicions of money laundering. It's very depressing for them to see that this is not necessarily taken into account and done with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1406	The White Sniper is perhaps a little smarter and a little bit more frequent than the burglar, but is just as full of a thief. In order to reveal economic crime affecting society, businesses and private individuals, solid investigation and good law are needed. We know that economic crime does not rarely hide behind bankruptcy. In order to ensure a sound investigation of bankruptcies, the Stortinget decided to introduce a legal pledge of 5 pst – against the votes of the Progress Party. This means 5 pst. the value of the stay is reserved for investigations into the reasons for the bankruptcy. It will now be significantly easier to find any hidden funds in the dwelling and to detect any maladministration. At the initiative of the Government, new criminal provisions against corruption have also been adopted. The provisions of the Criminal Code on indebtedness offences have been simplified and streamlined. Furthermore, new competition law, new money laundering law and new currency registration law have been adopted. In addition, bankers and lawyers are required to notify the police if they detect cases of financial crime. The government, with the Minister of Justice at the head, has worked hard to close gaps in legislation. We can say it like this: We have declared war on the white-collar criminals! In the summer of 2002, the Minister of Justice took the initiative in a project to combat corruption and money laundering. The project, as has already been mentioned, is managed by Eva Joly, one of Europe's leading experts in the fight against economic crime. Through this project, the Government has drawn up an action plan on financial crime, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. There is a need for increased and more targeted efforts by police and prosecution authorities to detect and combat financial crime. Therefore, cross-disciplinary eco-teams shall be established in all police districts by the end of this year. In order to achieve better efforts, competent measures shall be taken for the eco-teams of the police. The basis for recruitment to work against economic crime is to be improved by the fact that financial investigations are to become a separate subject at the Police College as early as autumn. Exercising powers shall also be exercised in the higher prosecution authority and in the courts. Ecocrime is a very important tool in the fight against economic crime. At the initiative of the Government, the unit was strengthened by four new posts in 2004, and this has continued in the year’s budget. Ecocrim has recently established a separate department for strategic analysis, such as: must investigate money-laundering messages. Much is done, but we have more to do. For the Christian People's Party, it is particularly important to put in place enhanced legislation against pyramid companies and pyramid-like network sales. The Minister of Culture is actively working on it. We cannot accept that anyone earns himself rich at the expense of others. That is why the fight against economic crime is very important for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1430	Economic crime and the black economy are important to combat. There is much to be done, including in Norway. I mean, and I've been thinking for a long time, that there is a force on the broad front needed to improve the law and strengthen the control bodies that are needed. Those who cheat must be properly and visibly punished, because it is so contagious when it is seen through the fingers with conscious and visible juxtaposition. Better regulation and control resources are needed. Right now, I think we're the best in regulation and the worst in control resources. The Joly project is very good, but the Center Party wants to increase resources. In particular, we have pointed to the tax rate, the rate of equation and customs duties, which have been low in this debate. There have been major changes and cuts in these floors in recent times. The number of persons employed is greatly reduced. At the same time, tasks have become more comprehensive and complicated. Competence disappears. It is needed to detect financial crime. There is good evidence that every additional year's work in these controls gives millions of revenue to the state, maybe ten times as much as the cost. The huge social losses of the black economy are well-known. The contagion is great. It has therefore proposed to increase resources in order to increase the number of posts within these departments. Ecocrim is of course central. That the capacity there is too small is still proven. One year it was known that there were strong suspicions about the T5PC system. It was the media that revealed and illuminated this, which led to Ecokrim then taking the initiative to investigate that matter. Exchange fraud is widespread. This, in addition to extra large fluctuations in share values in recent years, scares many investors away from the stock market. The small and least professional have lost the most and are scarred the furthest away. Oslo Stock Exchanges is probably more plagued than larger exchanges. The market for non-listed companies is less controlled and regulated than the stock market. We know less about the conditions there. At the same time, more private capital is needed for the Norwegian share market. The number of private shareholders in Oslo Børs has decreased by 30 000 between 2001 and 2004. The centre party has believed that we need our own stock control. It may be divided into one supervision for non-listed companies, including the transition to listing, and one supervision for the listed companies, where the actors are assumed to know more. The centre party has suggested on several occasions that this be established, but we have not received a clear answer as to whether the government will. Two years ago, the Council of State replied that it would be clear during 2003 if such a proposal were to be made. At least we have not registered that we have received that answer, and I would like to take this opportunity to ask if the Government has now decided whether they believe we should establish such additional supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1447	It is absolutely essential for any society to have an effective and targeted fight against crime. This applies whether it is traditional theft, financial crime or internationally organised crime. The government has launched a whole series of measures to combat these in a systematic way. We in the Left will highlight in particular the money laundering project led by Eva Joly and the financial crime action plan launched in 2004. Another important step is to increase competence at all levels throughout our chain, both in terms of corruption and in terms of money laundering. In the case of economic crime, it is not only about individuals being deprived of values, but also about the community being deprived of values. And a welfare society will thus have less opportunity to evolve into a good society to live in. Raising means using criminal offences to turn illegal income into legal revenue. Whitewashing is often linked to a lot of other crime, such as trafficking in women and children and drug trafficking, often with branches of international crime. Therefore, combating money laundering is important, and following the flow of money is important. The kind of bet the Minister of Justice made on Økokrim last year is important. These are also the multi-disciplinary eco-teams in the police districts. Getting this in as a subject of your own at Police College is important to get the whole crime scene and the knowledge about it out to all local stations. What I especially want to put my finger on is that our old picture of someone named White-Snipper, and someone who then has darker snipes under his jacket, I don't think there is any more. The compound criminal sometimes commits drug crimes, sometimes financial crimes, and sometimes the most serious crimes in relation to trafficking in women and children. This is becoming more and more intertwined, and it is important to have knowledge of following the flow of money in order to reach exactly those types. This government option tries to make someone a choice between a cold and a hot society. To bet on the police and to bet on fighting violence and injustice, especially against the most vulnerable in society, fighting a crime that is draining the community of resources, is quite important to get a warm society. But then you also have to have a knowledge that there are no criminals with whites and some with dark snipes, but that there are actually criminals who are building networks today that it is important to have knowledge of at all levels to get into, and to be able to break down.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1464	Since the Enlightenment period, our country has built on values such as democracy, the legal security of the individual, the right to privacy and the right to live in security in our country. The aim of the Right's policy is that these values remain the leaders of Norwegian democracy. What is our open, trust-based, democratic society is often confronted with forms of crime that are just taking advantage of the vulnerability that transparency offers. The right's objective is to prevent and combat crime, including the organised crime. We're not going back very many decades before the term organized crime was not used as such. Today, considerable resources are being used to combat it just now, and efforts have a significant value set as a backstop. The measures taken by the Government are many, and it also makes what the interpellant is concerned about. In recent years, the government has taken a number of measures to prevent, but also to combat, crime in a good and effective way. And the fight against organised crime has been strengthened, among other things: through the police reform and the New Kripos. Competence is strengthened in the police and prosecution authorities, and the Stortinget has adopted a number of legislative changes to meet the major challenges. Organized crime is international. This also requires international cooperation and, in particular, coordination. Not least, it requires good export control in Norway. The government prioritises the fight against economic crime high, and in the Action Plan against financial crime, the Government proposes a number of new measures that will lead to increased detection and more effective criminal prosecution of financial crime. The government has also promoted a number of legislative proposals that have been and are being discussed in the Grand Duchy. That's good. However, it is clear that the investigation of economic criminal offences is all too complex and that it often takes time to detect criminal offences. The new Whitewashing Act came into force on 1 January of this year. The obligation to electronically monitor suspicious transactions was then imposed. There was an increase in the number of money laundering messages to Økokrim already before the amendment. Just this extended reporting obligation and the obligation of electronic monitoring of suspicious transactions in banks can be expected to lead to a further increase. The Action Plan also sets out the following: ‘In order to follow-up at the operational level, a review of technological needs and opportunities, organisation and composition of competences is also necessary.’ In this work, a new computer system is needed to support the work of the Whitewashing Message. Ecocrim is also working on developing monitoring systems closely with financial institutions. Another measure of the Government's Action Plan against financial crime is the establishment of inter-disciplinary eco-teams in all police districts. The teams are established so to speak everywhere. The goal of organized crime is often the desire to make money and make fast money. The measures taken by the Government during this period of government are many, they are targeted and they are complex. The interpellant is thus welcomed to just prioritize the police, along with the majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1495	I am pleased with the articles that have been made, and which largely support the ideas that at least the Labour Party is making about combating this type of crime. I am also pleased that the debate has not been completely cut out in relation to what the representative Schou and some others have concluded with, indications that this is about how much we allocate to the Norwegian police. I was about to say that if it had been that simple, the government would have been the worst in its proposal for a government budget last year, the Labour Party a little better and the Progress Party the best when it came to combating financial crime. With all due respect, it's not about this. I believe that to a large extent this is about how we organise the police, and how we choose to give political priority. That was also the intention of the interpellation. That being said, the Labour Party in several budgets has actually chosen to give priority to combating economic crime. But I'll leave it. What should, on the other hand, be a challenge for the whole of the United Kingdom, and in particular for those of us who are in charge of justice policy issues, must be that the instruments adopted by legislation and other regulations should be put in place and that people should have confidence in it. This concerns the issue of the law on money laundering, which has just entered into force, all the notifications that come — that it actually receives serious treatment. That should be done. The size should be given information quite quickly about how that work actually works, so that we can precisely adjust our priorities in relation to it. That's what I think must be important. The second is that this depends on the fact that a lot of the equipment has just been upgraded, which several representatives have been involved in – among others. the nature of the equipment that Ecocrim possesses. I assume that the Minister of Justice and the Department will hold a good and tight hand around this, as I understood that the Minister of Justice and, to some extent, the Government would actually do. To what extent this is achieved, the Storting should be briefed on. Finally, I think that there is a significant political commitment on all parties, I kept saying no matter how much one wants to grant to the Norwegian police in the future – that is, a considerable amount of money all parties spend on police action – that they actually keep this priority even when facing other kinds of problems. Because I think that after all, this becomes a question of being able to say yes to something and no to something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1508	We, who are here, are often brought forward in the national courts that the recent debate programmes are, and then we are told what we should or should not give priority to. But at least the government has done its priorities, and I see it as having support in the Stortinget as Minister of Justice for it. I'll remind you what it was: Mountain Children and Youth in Time! Be Acute! Get organized crime! Economic crime is part of that context. These are clear priorities. It's about law, it's about organization, and it's about something that I also felt that the interpellant took up: cultural construction. Because there is no doubt that the cultural building we are talking about here is about police relations within the police to strengthen the police's own competence, and police cooperation with other important Norwegian community institutions. Here the financial institutions are mentioned, but of course they also apply to tax authorities. I would like to say once again that some of them may be least heroic – but nevertheless, they deserve great honor and honor – are the tax auditors in the Tax Agency. They are the front soldiers in an important effort to just combat what has been addressed by the interpellant. The representative of Thorkildsen raised the question of the reversal of the burden of proof. Today we have this in parts of the fight against economic crime, for example. in the case of withdrawal. We've had cases where some people are disability pensioners, but they're sitting with enormous wealth. I will not mention the name, I, but they are well and properly covered, for example. in the Economic Report a few years ago. If there are such things where you sit with that wealth, in principle you have to prove where the money comes from. Then we have reversed the burden of proof, just like No Marte Thorkildsen took up. According to my knowledge, there must be eco-teams in all police districts, but to be sure of what the competence and function is now, I have asked for a debriefing. Because it is important – and I believe that is also the intention of the interpellant – to keep the pressure. A part of the pressure is, of course, in a time when all ICT systems are almost renewed overnight – because that is the way evolution is. Then, of course, we keep the ongoing debate on how best to be in that area as well. The interpellant has read me correctly when it comes to it. Others have raised the issue of the entire share market. There is no time to go into this, except that I want to say the following: I am generally concerned with legal rules that protect the small ones and ensure that the small ones are not squeezed into the big and powerful interests of our entire financial and equity market. I'm going to hold the pressure on this from a simple basic attitude, and it's the following: cheating on the Norwegian people and the Norwegian community for significant funds is about to happen. It's making sure that our welfare community is undermined. And it is in practice contributing to a fairly effective distortion of competition, especially in relation to the entire undergrowth we have of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. That way, I feel like we've actually created a common value foundation in the storeroom, and that's good. We need it, because those we're going to fight are speculated. Then we need a lot of whistle blowers – witnesses or alerts, as it's called. I welcome all Norwegian citizens as warners in the fight against economic crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1532	Then the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1538	We're going to vote in case no. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1546	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s statement at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 15 February 2005 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1554	During the debate, May Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The decision asks the Government to make proposals so that maternity benefits give the same entitlement to holiday benefits as sickness benefits.2. The Government asks the Government to make proposals in order to make maternity benefits equivalent to sickness benefits in pension rules and agreements, long-term care, temporary work, etc.3. The government is asking for the system of maternity benefits to be better known than today.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1584	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-17.ana.ud1678e1595	There is no record.
