ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e43	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e46	On behalf of Øyvind Korsberg, Kenneth Svendsen, Thore A. Nistad and myself, I would like to make a proposal that the use of a carriage for the carriage of passengers be permitted in the same way as before the entry into force of the new Professional Transport Act of 21 June 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e51	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e65	St.meld. No 4 is a government document that alerts and informs the Storting about how the Government has followed up the request and investigation decisions the Stortinget has made. What we've seen over recent periods is that the number of request and investigation decisions that the Storting is making, which in many ways is an instruction to the Government on a particular pattern of action, is growing. In the past, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has been very critical of the fact that, on the basis of Document No, in particular, the request and investigation decisions have been approved in the main hall. Eight proposals are increasing. This hampers the ability of the Storting to exercise control over the activities of the Government and the State Councils, because the Storing in advance, before the case is thoroughly investigated, actually takes a decision directing the Government to a particular pattern of action. It may deprive the Government — and it also detracts from the Storting — of the opportunity to make different choices in relation to important issues. That being said, however, it is that when the Greatness as the country's top political body makes a decision, it will be very much to do if not followed up by the Government. It is my impression that the government is looking too hard to back up the individual issues in other documents and thus avoids responding directly to the Storting decision. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has therefore stressed in this opinion the importance of the fact that when the Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with a particular issue in a particular case, this should preferably be done in a particular case. However, the Committee also recognises that it may be appropriate from time to time to consider the various issues related to other issues and that it may be useful to back them up in wider assessments and in other issues. The Committee has underlined that, if most appropriate, the Government must make visible in the document that this is a follow-up and an answer to the request decisions made by the Storting. What we can see from St.meld. No 4 for 2004–2005, it is significantly better than the St.meld. No 4 that we got in the last big one. I have understood that this is a consequence of the relatively broad and comprehensive debate we had last had on the basis of the Storing Communication on the request and investigation decisions for the 2002-2003 session. Nevertheless, some comments have been made on the part of the Committee which have not been entirely satisfied with the follow-up by the Government, but there are considerably fewer comments this time than before. After many years of membership of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, and even after many years as a member of the Stortinget, I have to say that there seems to be a certain attitude in the Stortinget: It is more important to have a decision taken than to follow up the decision in retrospect. This is a regrettable feature, because from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, we have had a considerable effort to communicate with the various expert committees on what they have done and how they have responded to the various answers given by the Government. It shouldn't be like that. It should be such that both the representatives and the majority behind the various request decisions should also have a special interest in observing what the Government is doing with the request and investigation decisions taken in the Stortinget. Then it must be admitted that from time to time society is changing so much that there is a certain possibility that the decisions taken by the Stortinget cannot be implemented – there are changes in the social structure that would make it unreasonable to follow the decision of the Stortinge directly. What I want to ask the Council of State is that in cases where the Government finds it impossible to implement the Resolution of the Grand Duchy, it should come back to the Grand Duchy and explain why it is impossible, instead of trying to hide the issue in other documents. There is a number of more tidy ways to deal with this, especially at a time when the government is so dependent on communication between the various political institutions, and at a time when it is important for the population to be informed about what is going on. If we get into a situation where the Stortinget takes a number of decisions that are marketed in the media as political issues such as the Stortinget have a special view of how to solve, and it turns out that nothing is done about this, the reputation of the Stortinget is weakened and the reputation of the population is weakened. Ultimately, this will relate to the confidence of the population that the Storting is able to address the important societal issues we face. It is therefore important — even in the cases where the Government, for political or other reasons, finds it unreasonable, from the Government’s point of view, to implement the request decisions — that this is made visible and explained in the document coming back to the Storting. I believe that both the Government, the Storting and the population will be served with such direct and concrete treatment. I'm not going to go into the different proposals. They may be read by the representatives of the magistrates, and they may also be brought up by the various trade committees if they wish to pursue the matters on which the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has special comments and where it has made it clear that there is no satisfaction in the follow-up by the Government. There will be an opportunity for both the Government and the individual specialist committees to raise questions concerning documents that will be considered later. However, in Stortinget, as the Stortinget is now composed, there is always a requirement for negotiations with at least three parties before a majority decision can be taken. We see, in particular during the budgetary procedure, that part of the request and investigation decisions taken by the Stortinge disappear, that the majority behind these proposals disappears as a result of a negotiated result linked to the budget. We just have to accept that this is the case, but I think it would be reasonable that this is explained in the document presented to the Stortinget, that the Government finds that it has actually happened, and that both the Storing and the population also see that, in order to achieve a negotiated result, the parties also have to go along with some of the previous decisions. You will then get comments from what has become a minority, who want to pursue this matter, and the Storting and the Government must have special attention to these issues. Then I recommend the committee setting. We take note of the great news and the Committee's comments that have been made, and the Government is encouraged to continue working on the issues raised by the Committee in order to make the follow-up of the various decisions taken by the Government visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e91	First of all, I would like to say that I agree with most of what the case spokesperson said, and I am listening with great interest to his contribution today. The Christian People's Party will show that in recent years the Stortinget has made a number of request decisions. Fortunately, the figure for the period 2003–04 has been reduced over the period 2002–03, but remains above the level for 2001–02. The Christian People’s Party refers to what one has previously said when it comes to such decisions. The size is related to Document No. 14 for 2002-2003 and Innst. S. No 142 for 2003-2004, the Frøiland Committee’s recommendation, expressed fear of the scope of the request decision. It is very desirable for everyone that there be less use of instructions from the Storting, limited to matters of particular importance. The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, will fail in the decline in the number of requests decisions compared to the previous year, repeating the call for restraint in instructing the Government. The stork's right and say the possibility to instruct it at any time sitting government cannot be discussed! But excessive use of the right to instruct will easily lead to unclear responsibilities between corruption and government. This could lead to a reduction in the ability of the Storting to control and make the individual State Council responsible. It is right and important that there is order in the Storting's work. The Committee notes the follow-up of 18 decisions of the Ministries during the 2003-2004 programming period and four decisions for the 2002-2003 programming period. In addition, there are a number of issues in which Stortinget has asked for a separate case to be submitted, but where the feedback has taken the form of comments in St. prp. No 1st@item: The Committee takes the view that the individual technical committee has assessed whether such an approach would be accepted or whether the requirement for a separate case for the Storting is maintained. The majority of the committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party indicate that several request decisions contain a request to the Government to return to the Stortinget with a ‘own case’ or ‘one case’. In connection with this, the Christian People's Party would point out that the Government in several cases writes that the matter has been mentioned in the State budget – this is of course because many such requests are related to budgetary issues, which the case-speaker also mentions. The majority point out that the natural follow-up would be to produce a message or a proposition to the Size Based on a request decision. The majority's intention may be to agree to, that is, to order, and that it should be easy to find out where the matter is mentioned, and how it is followed up. The Christian People's Party, together with its members from the Right, will refer to the Inner East. S. No 168 for 1998-1999 and the Frøiland Selection, for which the problem has been addressed. The Christian People's Party will specifically refer to the Ministry of Modernisation's budget proposals, where the follow-up to the request and distribution decisions is made clear and clear. This is an example that's neat and easy to stick to. It will be good for the Stortinget's work that other departments also follow the same practice. It is natural, of course, that the Government follows up the Storting's decisions and the annual request decision message does well for when and how this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e119	Let me first join in the main points of view expressed by the President-in-Office of the Council, Jørgen Kosmo, when it comes to how the Government should come back to the Grand Duchy with a reply or follow-up to the request decisions in particular. I also think there has been a tendency that instead of providing concrete information, there are often references to other documents. This means that they want depositors to carry out some sort of detective activity in order to find out how the government follows up decisions. This should be done in the annual report of St. No 4 stands out in concrete terms for each request decision how to follow up. The fact that you can also refer to other documents is quite correct. Then I still think there are too many examples of requests that are relatively concrete, simple and simple in form, and simple to understand, are not actually followed up as the decision sounds – nor is it commented and answered. So I think clearer speech would be fine. If the government believes that this is impossible to implement because the consequences have not been clearly explained, whether there are costs or practical consequences, it is easier to say it correctly. It is clear that the Government has full access to come back much earlier than in St. Report. No 4 if one considers that decisions cannot be implemented, or one disagrees that they will not be implemented. They can come as their own things, instead of waiting for half a year or a year to gather them in St.meld. No 4th@item: This is important, because it is part of the request decisions that are often, perhaps by proposers and others, marketed in such a way as to affect groups, organisations or businesses that the Stortninget has now taken a decision, so now it is. Then you expect something to happen, but nothing happens. So the government has come to realize that this cannot be done – it can be for plausible reasons, for political reasons – and then it drives away instead. Then it's better that the government comes back to the Storting faster, so that not many out there in society expect things that it turns out to be nothing of. Then, of course, there is also a responsibility on all representatives and party groups to make clearer and clearer decisions, not as round formulations as some of the decisions have. But that's something you get to work with in the different groups. As regards the need to follow up the decisions, I will also join the case rapporteur. It has gradually appeared — and probably as a result of an increase in the number of request decisions — that there has been a significant change in what we can call practice in the operating apparatus, and it is independent of who is in government. The first few years I was in this house, no one checked that the request decision was implemented. It was taken as a matter of course. There was no need for the Stortinge to examine whether decisions were implemented. Only the non-implementation of decisions did not strike any. We are told that social development and political development have changed this. Once we have started the system with St.meld. No 4, which tells how the Government follows up decisions, it has been found that the whole of the Biggest, all the committees, attention to follow-up after voting in this Chamber is something that the party groups must take much more seriously than they do. So that's not how you think it is, at least not how it was in the old days, that once the Storting has made a decision, it's just going to be implemented. In fact, there are now so many decisions that are not implemented that there is no longer any reason to rush and win out of the main hall after a vote on a request decision. It is only when evidence has been provided that it has been de facto implemented – either that the law has been passed by the Odelstinget and the Lamentationet and the Penalty, or that an organisational change has been implemented – that there is reason to rejoice. That is why I also believe that all wholesale representatives must take more into account the work that follows after a request decision has been taken. It has also been shown – to the extent that the government has a right and that the current government is good to use – that it is largely ignored that the request decisions have budgetary implications for the future budget. In the case of the Stortinget, the decision to request that the government in the future budget should make it and the allocation or the grant and the change in the levy or the tax and the change in the tax. Mostly, the government apparatus records it, but the government apparatus knows very well that the new budgetary system is such that 15–20–30, perhaps 40, explicit cases are being negotiated in order to obtain subsidiary membership from an opposition party. The rest of the hundreds of things that are in the budget are slipping through. For those who are very anxious to have a decision on a change in the budget, it means that they feel that they are drowning in the process of the harvest when the budget is to be adopted. That again means that we in the Storting must be better off not to take it as a saying that we have been given a decision that the Storting asks the Government in the next budget to include such and such mail, or to do so and so on. That's no victory. It is only when the final budget is adopted that it may be implemented. It's a consequence of the new system, a system that we haven't given our consent to, which the majority have, and to which everyone then obviously has to relate. These were some words a little general. So there's one decision I especially want to take for myself. It is Decision No. October 4, 2003. It says on page 4 of the setting, and it's about something that's in 2.5.1, under the Ministry of Health and Health. The Decision reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the benefits and disadvantages of financing the costs of elderly care services in line with disability pension, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit and old-age pension as a system in which the money follows the user who chooses the approved care services and presents this issue to the Stortinget before the end of 2004.’ This is a typical decision with a clear deadline – ‘before the end of 2004’. The decision is therefore taken from October 2003. In eleven months nothing happens. So, in a letter of 13 September 2004 to the Prime Minister's office, the Ministry of Social Affairs states: ‘The conversion outlined in the proposal is complex and will represent a major shift in the financial arrangements for the municipal care services.’ Everyone knew that when the proposal was adopted. There was nothing new. This has been the subject of debate for years. In addition, it says: «The matter also raises fundamental questions of principle relating to the division of responsibilities between State and municipality.» That is quite correct – and further on: ‘On this basis, the Ministry has launched investigations to elucidate the issues posed by such funding and support has been given to municipal development projects for alternative local resource allocation models. The Government aims to respond to the Storting’s request in a new biggest message of care in an ageing society promoted during the autumn of 2005.’» – i.e. one year after the deadline laid down in the decision. As far as you can see, nothing has been done in the eleven months since the letter was written in the department until the decision was actually taken. Furthermore, the letter states: ‘The purpose of this Communication is to provide a comprehensive proposal for a new financing and payment scheme for users in the care services.’ I have allowed myself to write in a note from the Progress Party: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers notes that the Government has had ample time to follow the decision of the Stortinget with the presentation of a separate case on this spring 2005 and wonders very much about the reason why the Government has chosen to push the matter forward after the 2005 Grand Prix.’ That you first give an answer eleven months later, and then say that you come back to it after the election, I think I show a lack of respect for the Storting. When Stortinget makes such a decision, it's just to try to solve complicated, comprehensive and fundamental issues. This is a very important issue – we are fully aware of – whether the State should finance the cost of care for the elderly or whether there should be a framework allocation to the municipalities, where there is a lack of funds to have a rights-based care service for the elderly, as you have. I think it is sad that the government has not followed this up. We should at least have received this message before the elections, so that one of the areas that will be discussed in the forthcoming election campaign could be based on some more knowledge and some more views and investigations from the Government. Instead, it will be completely lacking. I just want to express my disappointment that the government was not able to follow up this decision. It has had plenty of time to present this before the big shot for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e178	It is an important and fundamental discussion to which the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs invites the Stortinget on the basis of the position that exists. I would particularly like to stress that the need for clarity in communication between the government and the magnificence is important in the democratic process, as the rapporteur said in his statement. It is the Government's clear intention that, in the course of the follow-up to the request decisions taken in the Storting, the communication back to the Storing shall be visible and clear. The rapporteur and the Committee have pointed out the need for improvement in relation to it, which the Government will follow up. We have noted the views expressed in the vote, repeated and communicated by the case rapporteur here today, that when Stortinget asks for a case, one comes back with a case, and if it is clearly more appropriate to do so in a larger and more comprehensive context, it should be made clear in the documents. We will also work to make the follow-up to the request decisions visible in the annual budget proposals, and to clarify where the Government has found it appropriate to follow up the request decisions as part of the budget. It is also timely to note that, where the Government finds it impossible to follow decisions made by the Stortinget, it is necessary to return to the Stortinget and in a neat and convincing way – and clearly – explain why it is the Government’s assessment. I am satisfied with these general comments in the confidence that the responsible state councils will take note of the Committee's position in the respective areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e191	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e207	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e223	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party and Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e234	The Transport Committee presents its position on the activities of the NSB for the period 2004-2006. Throughout the 151-year history of the railway, the NSB has put its mark on Norwegian debate and transport in 122 of them – since 1996 separated from the Railway Agency. Railway’s father hot ‘empty’ and its mother ‘wooden load’. Even it was the birth aid during the industrial journey a hundred years ago, with Hydro and Borregaard as shining examples. This process of rapprochement will show that the anniversary of last year is at its peak, and that the virility and potency of the Jubilee are increasing, if the Right, Christian People's Party and Left continue their reform efforts in the transport sector even after the elections – other parties will undoubtedly present an alternative vision for the future. But this is a railway debate that in temperature and engagement shows a carrier that is life-created. In this way, we are in a good tradition. The NSB has been a repeater in this room. The activities of the NSB were an important point of contention in the national court case in 1884, and subsequently the Stortinget adopted the major rail compromise after long debate, such as in particular. gave us the Bergensbanen in 1909. The NSB's ever bad accounts before and after the last war as the car took its turn in Norway were heavily debated in Stortinget. NSB is a state financial problem, said Trygve Bratteli. Today's challenges are different. Centralisation, pressures on land and increased awareness of the environment give rail an important role in a multiplicity of transport services, even where it is not economically profitable. The Committee is pleased with the increase in passenger numbers on the rail, not least after the poor development over the period 2000-2003. Since then, punctuality has improved and customer satisfaction has increased. We are pleased that CargoNet's commitment to combined transport seems to meet users' needs. The Committee will commend the NSB for its ability to implement the necessary change processes in recent years. However, we in the majority believe that the cost and income trends in the NSB are far from satisfactory, and support actions by the NSB and the ministry to reduce costs and increase efficiency. It will improve the everyday lives of many users in this country. Increased train transport, satisfied users and a healthy transport economy are the railway company’s main success criteria. In the notification, market adaptation of the company is an important objective, and it is also one of the more controversial aspects of this treatment. Competition for freight transport and subsequently for passenger transport represents an exciting challenge for the NSB. I have noticed with interest that the management of the NSB presents competition as an important incentive to improve the organisation and make it stronger. Infrastructure is essential for the NSB. In modern times, there has never been any greater use of resources than under this government. The only exception is the expansion of the Gardermoban. At least as important is the government’s comprehensive reform process, which is subject to Norwegian trade. The NSB and the Railway Agency are being modernised. A new competition regime covering both passenger and freight transport represents a strong growth impulse for Norwegian railways. In its opposition to competition and to the modernisation of administration, the socialists forget that such a reform process can prove to be an existential issue for Norwegian railways as we know it. The internationalisation of the transport sector updates the need to invest in the Nordic and European rail markets, either alone or in cooperation with others. The Committee supports the Governing Board in its desire for greater freedom to adapt to the needs of travellers. Increased investment in high demand rail transport services is a proper resource and environmental strategy. There is good reason to commend the NSB for reorientation and ability to adapt to new needs and challenges. The provision of equity, return requirements and dividend rules are traditional management tools. A fair competition regime requires business-defined returns and dividend policies. It is also important for the assessment of the real need for the purchase of passenger transport services by the country. These purchases constitute 40 pst. of the total turnover of passenger transport on trains of the NSB. Furthermore, the majority believe that the sale of operationally independent assets will improve the economy of the NSB. It will contribute to the Ministry’s focus on the core activities of the NSB. Fair conditions of competition require that companies have almost equal access to the necessary infrastructure. I know that the government is in the process of assessing the management and ownership of stations and terminals. So to Nettbuss. The NSB has engaged heavily in the bus sector and currently has more than 2100 of its 8,000 buses. The majority fear that the company will develop into an overburden of buses. In it may lie the germ of a weathering line for railway operations. Less focus on rail because it is a more heavy and capital intensive mode of transport, which is also intensive in terms of planning and preparedness, can reduce rail competitiveness. The majority consider that the NSB bus operator should primarily be a complement to the railway which meets transport needs related to routes and railway operations in general. The majority fear that the NSB bus bet far exceeds this need. We believe that there is a need for a national railway company that aims first and foremost to provide good rail services and to continuously strengthen the competitive advantage of the railway. We don't want to think that a dominant market player who loses a bid on a track section drowns the competitor in heavy busses in the same corridor. Such a situation would make competition for the track entirely illusory. The majority ask the Ministry to carefully assess the size of the NSB’s bus activities and the form of involvement in the future, referring to what is mentioned above. Road freight transport is important with a view to more sustainable transport. New forms of cooperation and alliance construction between rail companies may be necessary to meet increasing internationalisation. In order to achieve this, the NSB is asking for freedom to sell into CargoNet when the need for cooperation, capital and new competences arises. The majority support NSB in this. It could strengthen the competitiveness of rail, in particular, and sustainable transport in general. Railway transport is safe transport. There is a need for targeted work on road safety. The outsourcing is subject to the assumption that the collateral shall be at least as good as before. Due to the specific position and size of the NSB, the management of safety within the NSB has a very central importance for railway safety in Norway. Traffic safety has developed positively since 2000, and the NSB deserves again flowers for safety work. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e268	Today's debate on the NSB's business has many positive elements in it. In connection with St.meld. No 6 for 2004-2005, both the NSB and the board have made their contributions, and the Ministry has followed them up in the message. It is more unusual that the parties representing the Government, especially at one point, place completely different leaderships, for example. when reading the comments on Nettbuss, on the fear that the company will become an overly large and dominant operator, or that Nettbuss will largely take care of accommodation services for trains, and that bus services seem to be far in excess of this need. Yeah, Nettbuss is big, a mess today, about a quarter of the Norwegian bus park. The message states in an indent that the Ministry of Transport is concerned that NSB AS should ‘use the synergies of being a broad group’. In the future, the NSB shall compete with international groups offering both bus and train, even ferry operations. The government party wants to postpone competition, but will at the same time bind the Norwegian player, so that there will be no real competition. It is incomprehensible with the detailed adjustment provided by the plural. The working party has been skeptical about parallel running between bus and train, but keep in mind that the freeway of express bus running has come too far under the sitting government. Friendship clippings and obstacles to a state-owned Norwegian company, while accepting that international companies operate their business in such a way, cannot stand behind the Labour Party. On the contrary, we are pleased that the NSB, with its subsidiaries, has come up from a wave valley. There are no passenger movements of the train; there is a monthly increase in punctuality. The train comes when they are going to, and is at the right time much more frequent than before. The working party is concerned that the NSB should primarily be a train crew member. It is the interaction between the NSB and the Railway Agency that can provide even better access conditions both for passengers and with a view to getting more goods on the track. The rail is screaming for initial investment and maintenance, which is what the majority also meant during the treatment of the national transport plan last year. The action plan shows that investments in the years ahead will provide better times for train transport. The working party is busy getting more goods onto the track. CargoNet invests in combined transport and has found its niche in the market. On many sections, the freight load increases smoothly, but the wagon load wears, etc. based on route charges. With small margins in transport, if we want this development, we have to give a level playing field for wagon loads and combined transports. Timber transport is a good example, which would benefit from a tax exemption. That is why the Labour Party supports this. The NSB and the board want a freer position in relation to the percentage ownership of CargoNet. The working party is disunited in this. We believe that CargoNet should be the dominant freight company for rail transport, and are concerned that at the hall to under 50 pst. can get a less focus in the NSB than today. It is organised for competition on the ground for other carriers, but the state's ownership of the NSB gives us opportunities for national leadership based on a willful policy. The working party is also concerned that the NSB should be given the opportunity to invest in an international market, especially in the Nordic, passenger and international markets. This is in line with the EU’s long-distance transport strategy, and trade with Europe depends on Norway. It is gratifying that the party of government is also united in this. We believe that the NSB, on the same line with others operating cross-border traffic, must be given access to the tax-free hall. That the government party doesn't want this is incomprehensible, but the Progress Party saves the majority. We expect this to be followed up as quickly as possible. The development of the GSM-R network and the co-location of the use of GSM associated with these investments are positive and long-term. In the letter of reply from the Council of State to the Committee, she sees it well, but the government party does not agree to this either. The NSB and the Ministry enter into agreements for government purchases of approximately NOK 1.5 billion a year. It is important that the parties agree on the amount of VAT refund to the NSB after the train company is now included in the VAT regime. Correspondence with the department suggests that at least 50 million people are missing. Of course, the train production results. I dare remember that it is for commuter traffic in the vicinity of the city that most of the public purchases go on. Cut in the boxes by not getting the sum negotiated, districts where the train supply is the only collective offer happen. I hope this will be cleared up in the revised national budget. The ownership relationship between the Railway Works and the NSB in respect of stations and other building masses is unclear. Undeserved responsibilities make their lack of maintenance. The Labour Party believes that one should continue to work to clarify this. We are familiar with the meetings that have been held, and expect the Ministry of Transport to actively contribute to finding economic solutions that the parties can accept. This is a forward-looking message. Adding her organisations thought she was good. This provides a good basis for even more improvements for the NSB. With an addition to the team and seeing the results of downsizing and manning reductions giving positive results, the transport company NSB, with primarily train operation, and bus as a complement, will be able to see future encounters with optimism. The working party does not support the conversion of NSB to NSB AS. When this happens, one must stick to the decisions that have been taken. This message gives instructions for the ownership message. We're probably a little surprised by the government party's eagerness to release and launch competition, as well as seeing how detailed the plurality is to a company that is now an AS. Talk about double accounting. The working party is concerned that the dividend policy should provide the company with long-term viability. Years after tax, dividends may not be able to jump to the large heights and drain the company for equity and reduce changes, which are necessary in a competitive market. Perhaps one in the long run should provide somewhat equal guidelines for dividends for state companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e300	The notification of the NSB shows that the company still needs to reduce its costs and increase its revenues. The Ministry of Transport considers that the Governing Board should focus strongly on this part of the business. I agree with them, of course. But, and it's a big one: I think the biggest service we can do is to make sure they get competition. Competitiveness sharpens the senses. This should be done both to attract customers, which will result in greater performance, and to focus on savings. That is why I am pleased that after several years of pressure from the Progress Party, the Government has now started the process of launching more sections of the track. Although, in my view, this goes slowly and one should have come much further, it is a start to something very positive. I record that the socialist parties, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, who love to give the impression that they are the parties fighting for public transport, do not see that competition is one of the best ways to get customers to use the track. Although I believe that the railways are far behind, for example, buses both in terms of flexibility and economy, it is obvious that competition on the track will lead to rail strengthening its position in the collective market. This, unfortunately for the users, does not see the socialist parties. The Communication provides for the continued state ownership of NSB AS, supported by the majority of the Committee. This is incomprehensible to me for several reasons. First of all, the NSB is nothing but an ordinary transport company that transports people from point A to point B. So there's nothing that should suggest that the state should be the owner. Otherwise in society, we have a significant number of transport companies. Many of these are monopolistic companies and have high security requirements. Common to most people is that they are private owned. I dare mention the Hurtigruten, who for over a hundred years has been running the coast with at least the same security challenges as the NSB AS have and that have been, and still are, private owned. The same applies to Unterøe, who has had monopoly and strict security requirements, without a single wish for that company to be owned by the State. But also from a user point of view, it is regrettable that NSB AS is not quoted and sold out. There is no doubt that selling and listing will lead to a revitalisation of the company, with access to new capital and new ideas that will benefit the operation of Norwegian railways. And if there's something NSB needs, it's just innovation and alternative solutions. This, of course, must not be misunderstood in that the employees do not do their job, but it is also competition and demands for returns from the shareholders that force new thoughts and solutions that benefit both customers, owners and employees. On this basis, we suggest that NSB AS be listed and then sold. As I said, it's our goal that NSB be quoted and sold out, but that doesn't mean that we don't also see that it has to be thought of in the short term. One of the problems that arise when the NSB is now going to compete is ownership, i.e.: the Ministry of Transport shall be the owner of the company. This, in turn, means that the Ministry must both draw up the tender criteria, negotiate the ambiguities of the tender procedure and finally award the tender. That's not good. And even though the ministry has put a lot of emphasis on not giving itself special advantages as owner, this ownership would create doubts in the market as to whether special advantages are given to the NSB. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes that ownership of the NSB be transferred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, initially. Following the initiative of the Progress Party, it was opened for the express buses to be able to compete with trains on the routes where the train also goes – in our view, a matter of course, on which this government finally agreed. This has led to a much better and a much more reasonable offer for the travellers. Unfortunately, there are still some anti-competitive elements left in the legislation and regulations for free competition between bus and train. Such competition, in the view of the Progress Party, will lead to a much cheaper and better offer for both society and users. That is why we are proposing to remove such obstacles. In the new situation that arises when NSB has to compete with other companies for assignments, it is important that the NSB does not have any special advantages over ownership of the infrastructure. Today, the NSB owns a significant part of the infrastructure through its ownership of buildings and properties. The Party considers that all such infrastructure should be grouped in the railway works or in an independent management company, so that the NSB does not confer any specific advantages in the new competitive situation. The NSB has gradually bought up to become the largest operator in the bus market. The Party of Progress is sceptical that the NSB should become a leading player in this market, both because there is no need for the State to own a transport agency through its ownership of the NSB in a market that works very well, and not least because the NSB achieves a monopoly-like power in that market, which is also considered by the Competition Authority. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the NSB be required to sell Nettbuss AS. NSB is also a large owner in CargoNet AS with its 55 pst. of the shares. There are currently several private operators established on this market and there is therefore no basis for the State to be a significant owner of a freight carrier through the NSB. It is a market that already works well, and therefore the Progress Party proposes that the NSB sell out of CargoNet and concentrate on its core tasks, namely passenger transport by train. The Progress Party also wants cross-border transport by train to have the same benefits as the airlines have and proposes that railway companies operating such transport be allowed to sell tax-free goods. I am therefore addressing the proposals that we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e330	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e333	It is gratifying to note that the NSB has had a positive development. This is important, because we need a good, modern and environmentally friendly transport company in Norway that can operate efficient and good train traffic. In addition to the fact that passenger development has been good, punctuality has also improved dramatically in recent years. The NSB has taken action which has led passengers to return to the NSB. I want to pay tribute to the campaign that was run, where you could travel how far you wanted, for 150 kroner. It turned out to be a success. It has also become significantly easier to order tickets from the NSB, not least through a very efficient system on the Internet. The NSB is in a competitive situation. I hear that the Right and Advance Party have not registered it, but the NSB competes every day against the car, against the planes and partly against the bus. That competition is for the NSB to win. I have had the dubious pleasure of trying a competitive train market, where trains were to compete against trains, in the United Kingdom. It took me two days to get a ticket. I had to have the travel manual by hand, and Lonely Planet’s travel guide for the United Kingdom uses three pages to describe how to get a ticket to travel from A to B. The United Kingdom is no model for us if we are to build efficient train traffic in Norway. There's one area where punctuality isn't good enough yet, and it's local traffic around Oslo. I think it's hard to load the NSB for that. The infrastructure we have around the capital does not have enough capacity to cope with a good enough traffic development. This is especially true for the Oslo–Ski route, where we have had problems, and where we are waiting for the development of double tracks to get a new and better situation. I would like to pay tribute to the Government for providing a good message. When I read through the first time, I thought this would be an easy job in the committee. Here we can get to a broad majority, of course minus the party that does not really want trains in Norway, the Progress Party. I am therefore a little sorry that we do not agree on more than what we actually do, in this setting. This applies in particular to Netbuss. I have to say that the way the government fraction argues in that case surprises me a little. It seems that it is not competition itself that is an objective, but almost to be allowed to kneel the state company. I don't think that's an honorable motive. It's the concession policy that decides whether we're going to have competition between the bus and the railway. When the Government Parties, with the support of the Progress Party, decide that such competition should exist, it must be fair and proper for the NSB to be allowed to compete on equal terms with the other companies to enter the market. We see that when tenders are on the Gjøvik Railway, it is the major international players, such as Arriva and Connex, who submit tenders, and those companies, of course, operate both by rail and by bus. Then it seems strange that the government fraction, unlike the Government, sees it as a problem that the state company should also operate both by rail and by bus. It has been said that it is a problem that NSB runs a bus in parallel with the fact that trains are running. I am unable with my best will to understand why it is not a problem if Connex was going to drive the same bus next to the train. So a little bit of rice in the end. In the case of stations, the situation should be better than it is today. It is not pleasant to go on the train neither at Holmlia nor at Hauketo. Now someone might think that there are small stations of little importance, but we're talking about stations that are among the ten-twelve most trafficked in Norway. I hope we get to a system. And if we are to say that the Committee agrees on at least one sentence, it must be said that ‘stations and station areas must be used for the benefit of passengers’. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e352	Let me begin by stating that now everything is going so much better for the NSB. After a period of negative trends, from 2000 to 2003, the number of passengers on the railway has increased in the last year. After this period, punctuality has improved and customer satisfaction has increased. 2004 was a good year for NSB Persontog. Never again have NSB trains been in the route. Customer satisfaction increased, and traffic development was positive. So the offer to customers has improved. This gives more satisfied customers and more customers. The punctuality of NSB trains is now better than ever. While four sections reached the punctuality target of 90 pst. in 2003, this target was achieved for a total of 12 sections in 2004. No better punctuality has been recorded since measurements started in 1971 on NSB Regiontog. Customer satisfaction has increased overall at NSB. This is very pleasant. All NSB regional trains had positive traffic growth in 2004. For some distances, the growth was very strong. For example, the eastern stretch from Halden to Oslo had a total growth of 23 pst. This is very good and absolutely necessary to dampen up the increased queues on the roads. So at the NSB Region train on the Eastfold Railway, it was 23 pst. more customers in 2004 than in 2003. The NSB carried in 2004 attracted 936,000 passengers on the regional train between Oslo and Halden. In 2004, NSB regional trains on the Eastfold Railway had an average punctuality of 90 pst. This applies to the left line. There is also a need to improve equipment and lines in the Inner Eastfold in order to increase the market share of the east fold roads on the railways. So it's going better now for the NSB. The Christian People's Party is committed to having a strong national railway company. With the great environmental benefits of rail transport over other transport, it is of great importance that we facilitate the widest possible share of traffic on rail. That is why we in the Christian People's Party will also stress that the railway must be the main focus of the NSB, not the bus operation. We fully agree with what is stated in Chapter 4 of the Ownership Communication on the Governing Board's objectives and strategies for the coming period: ‘The steering principle is that the train forms the base of the NSB’s collective service.’ NSB AS is strongly involved in the bus sector and now has more than 2100 of the country's 8,000 buses. We in the Christian People's Party will warn against a weakening of railway competitiveness. We believe that the NSB should be able to operate bus services, but that NSB’s bus operations should primarily be complementary to its railway operations on individual routes. In particular, they shall take care of the accommodation service. The NSB’s main role must be to provide good train services and to continuously strengthen rail’s competitive advantage. In dealing with the ownership message, the security perspective has been a topic. And it's important that the NSB continuously work to improve road safety. It has developed positively over the period 2001–2003. This positive development is linked to the fact that work on increased road safety is a high priority in the group. That's a positive and proper priority. We hope that the NSB will continue to rise, both in terms of the number of customers, punctuality and security – and with the satisfied and secure customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e374	The NSB AS activity message is an important matter. This message gives the Storting a comprehensive review of developments in the previous planning period and the NSB's main challenges, strategies and plans for the coming years. I would like to comment on some points in this message. Let me first say that the Center Party wants the NSB AS to also be state owned in the future. We want a strong national player on the railway side. For the Central Party, it is important that the Stortinget be briefed on major organisational changes, such as: the separation of support functions. Major changes in the provision of trains or the closure of sections of track should also be matters that the Storting should handle. The centre party is busy taking advantage of its advantages. It's e.g. good environmental policy and the right resource strategy to bet on the train as a collective service in and around the major cities and in the InterCity connection where there is a high demand for transport services. It is positive that the NSB has implemented adjustments that have led to increased efficiency and reduced costs. This has also increased regularity and given more satisfied customers. After years of decline in the number of passengers, the increase in the number of passengers arriving at the end of 2003 and continuing in 2004 has been a positive turning point in the development of passenger traffic in relation to trains. It is important that NSB AS adapts to the demand of the passengers so that the NSB can continue a positive development on the passenger transport side. The Central Party supports the Government's assessment that the bus business should still be part of the NSB group's bet, but that the train should be the base. Bus interaction with trains will strengthen public transport and make the NSB group more complete to its customers. In my view, NSB AS will also strengthen its ownership of Nettbuss AS in terms of competitiveness of the NSB group in relation to multinationals, such as the United States. Connex and Arriva. The two companies are examples of transport companies investing in both trains and buses, and it is important that NSB AS has the same conditions as its competitors. Otherwise, it is also worth noting that Nettbuss – as it says in the message – makes a monthly positive financial contribution to the NSB group. The Central Party agrees with the Ministry that the NSB bus business should be further developed with a view to strengthening public transport as a whole by supporting and complementing the provision of trains. So I wonder that the government party in a comment on the bus business of NSB AS – at least as I see it – is partly on a collision course with what is in the proposition, when these parties together with the Progress Party ask the Ministry to carefully assess the size of the NSB's bus business and form of involvement in this area in the future. The railways also have advantages in freight transport, especially when transporting large quantities of goods over long distances. The goal of the centre party is to get more goods onto the railway, and so the growth is 18 pst. positive developments in the transport of containers and semi-trailers by rail in 2004 with which we are very pleased. The ownership of the NSB has been a major part of the values of the group since the creation of NSB as a special-law entity. I support what is stated in the message that it is important to clear the responsibility when dealing with stations. The lack of maintenance of many station buildings indicates that responsibility is unclear, or at least that responsibility for maintenance is not taken seriously. In a note with the Workers' Party and SV, the Centre Party points out that a solution may be that the Railway Agency is given sole responsibility for station areas. In any case, a solution should be found as soon as possible and acceptable to the parties. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important for NSB AS to have a sound framework so that the company can have long-term development, planning and operation. A premise for this is that the dividends and return policies of the company are also reliable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e397	The government adds St.meld. No 6 prior to the third reporting of ownership of the activities of the NSB. Important lines are drawn here on how the Government will exercise its ownership, while briefing and assessing the company's plans and strategies. The railway is an important investment area for the Government. In 2005, we spend well over NOK 6 billion on rail, and the rail budget is strengthened by over 30 pst. since we took over in 2001. The government proposes that the State should also be the owner of the NSB group in the future. As more passenger transport by train becomes exposed to competition, a State-owned NSB group can participate and ensure greater diversity of operators and real competition in the transport sector. I am very pleased that the number of travelers with the NSB and the freight volume to CargoNet has increased in recent times. This represents a positive turning point for the group. Punctuality has improved, and customers are more satisfied now than before. In order to continue this positive development, it is also important that the NSB has predictable framework conditions. Priority should be given to maintenance and investment in railway infrastructure. The NSB’s targeted work on road safety has produced results. Security has developed positively after 2000. The NSB is currently undertaking major shifts to reduce costs and make operations more efficient. This is explained in more detail in the notification. The company has and should have a major focus on the core business itself. Several support and service functions are separated and exposed to competition. This gives economic gains. Like the committee, I want to give the NSB credit for the ability to have implemented the necessary change processes in recent years. The profitability of the NSB group has not been as intended due to the low revenues generated by the passenger train and freight train operations. However, the comprehensive conversion of the NSB during the previous period has helped to reduce its negative effects. As the Committee also points out, without this work, the NSB would have been in a significantly worse economic situation. I expect the NSB to continue its efforts to reduce costs. The Government considers it appropriate to exploit the possibility of collecting synergies between trains and buses within the current group structure. This will contribute to the most cost-effective provision of transport and support the main objective of the most profitable operation of trains overall. I have noticed the majority in the Committee on Transport that Nettbuss is becoming a dominant player in the bus market. I don't see this as a collision course with the government's policy – on the contrary. It is important that there is effective competition in the bus market and that we gradually achieve effective competition on the rail market as well. I will therefore follow this development closely. At the same time, the majority points out that a new situation would arise as to whether the NSB would have a high level of competition in the railway sector from companies that are also bus operators. This is an important indication, which demonstrates an understanding of the company’s strategy and underlines the importance of gaining experience with the upcoming competitive developments. As rail freight competition develops in Norway, the Government considers that the condition that the State should own a minimum of 51 pst. of the shares in CargoNet, may be cancelled and the NSB, in consultation with the Ministry of Transport, should have the freedom to assess the reduction in its holding. The majority of the Committee agrees. The properties of the NSB have been a major part of the company’s values since the establishment of the NSB as a special-law company. The majority of the Transport Committee asks the Government to carefully assess the management and ownership of the stations and terminals in the NSB. The issue of ownership and their management is extensive and complex. How to organise an alternative management and operation will therefore have to come back to me. Railways are the most environmentally friendly means of transport we have, and further rail investment is essential to achieve good environmental benefits and to make more people travel collectively. The good developments of the railway show that we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e429	I agree with the Council of State in most of what she said. The Government supports NSB AS being owned by Netbus in the future. I guess that's because it's going to give the best possible total supply, and it'll give the state that owns the most for values and licenses to NSB AS. The government party is concerned, as the state council said, that this should lead Nettbuss to drown companies that win the offer on trains, in competing bus operations, to site the case leader. At the same time, we know that current competitors, such as Connex and Arriva, have both trains and buses – they are even quite large on buses. Then I wonder: is the government party agreed with the government that NSB AS should not have too much bus? What would the Council of State do if other companies drowned NSB AS in competing bus operations if they won the offer of routes?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e438	I would like to remind you that what we are talking about now is a transport company that is going to have railway activities as the root of its core business. I agree with the majority that we need to have the attention to the fact that this is exactly where the greatest and heaviest focus is going to be. So it's true that other operators who want to compete here, will largely also have bus business. That's what we want to be open for, that's what the NSB is going to have. But it will be, I think, important that we are clear on what is the strategy of the state-owned transport company, and then I'm talking about the rail transport company. I don't think a state-owned railway company should have as a strategy to compete out of train transport. There is the majority and I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e443	Governments spent a lot of their time establishing and stressing the importance of the state ownership of NSB. As I said in my post, Onøe is a private company that has developed very well, with new routes and good service, and they have got many new users. The same is true of Hurtigruta. Hurtigruta is also a privately owned company with monopoly, which also has Widerøe. They invest in new boats, and they look at new ways of selling their products, among other things. they have started routes to Greenland and to Antarctica. They also focus strongly on safety, at least as strongly as the NSB. Why is it that it is entirely right to have these private players in the market, while the NSB must be absolutely state-owned? I'd like to get an explanation for that. The same applies to why you still have the Ministry of Transport as the owner of the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e448	The ownership of the NSB will continue to be in the Ministry of Transport under this government. Any government can assess the location and department of ownership of the establishments. The NSB will continue to be a very important player in the railway field in Norway. It's important that we make sure that we have an actor who can perform the kind of tasks we're talking about here, that we have an actor who specializes in railway operations and is able to do those tasks. In Norway, after all, there are 4.5 million people. So it's even so that not all of the 4.5 million have the opportunity to travel by train. We have to make sure, we have to take care of the opportunities that lie in the NSB, and I think the state will be a good owner in that way for a long time to come. The NSB is important in sectoral policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e453	I am very much in agreement with most of what the Council of State said in its statement. But I was amazed at the answer she gave to Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt. If you think that a state company, NSB, should not be able to compete with trains on the bus side, I have to ask: is it better that that competition is conducted by a private company, and what is the difference in principle? Or is it that when we have a corridor or a stretch, is it the concession policy that determines whether there should be competition between trains and buses? If the concession policy says it should, what's the difference in principle as to whether it's Netbuss or Connex running the same route?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e458	Actually, this is a strange debate, because I have experienced that the parties that are most concerned with the fact that the NSB will be allowed to drive both bus and train, have been very sceptical about them driving parallel bus and train. So this debate is kind of put on the head, in my opinion. Should the strategy of a state-owned railway company be that they should drive a bus, and preferably a bus, where we can compete with those who try to establish a good and environmentally friendly railway business? I believe that competition law is such that it says what can happen here, and not least what concessions we give. I think it's wrong if a state company should have as a strategy to possibly compete out the railway business – it's like it exists or if it comes new, and maybe especially when it comes new.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e463	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e466	Trains are a safe, land-efficient and environmentally friendly travel option. We've got to get more of this! For this reason, with the support of a majority in this room, the Labour Party has stepped in to increase investment to better rail tracks, double tracks and some new sections. It's in the infrastructure problem, not that NSB AS is working badly, because it doesn't. As many people have said, things are still going better. Taxfree hall can be a means of attracting more people to trains instead of more impure means of transport – and it will also provide income. That's why we're in the Labour Party for equal terms here, and it's getting multiples today. I am pleased that the Government has submitted such a positive message about the NSB, a message that follows mainly up the NSB board's § 10 message. I am pleased that the government party also supports NSB AS being able to compete outside. This should be lacking only when the majority has opened up competition for passenger transport for other companies in Norway. The Labour Party opposed the conversion of the NSB into a limited liability company. When it is decided, we will work confidently and confidently to take an important social dimension in the future when it comes to rail transport. We will work to ensure that NSB AS has a framework that allows them to provide the best possible range of services and follow-up with sufficient public purchases to maintain socially important services that do not go hand in hand with business economy. We want to give the NSB the opportunity to have a dividend policy that is far-reaching and hanging on its hands, and to take advantage of the value that lies there for the country on behalf of the people and for the NSB AS. We will give the NSB such conditions that the State that owns will have the best possible exchange of the values in the company. The majority act as capitalists, but I think they're basically poor capitalists, because they want their own state-owned companies to have worse framework conditions than their competitors. It is alarming, whatever the state council is now trying to say, that the government party does not follow up the Government's proposal to allow NSB AS to take advantage of the advantage of both train and bus operations. It's okay, we've been critical of parallel running, but once the majority of the head councils have liberalized this completely, we can't see the difference whether Connex is going to compete with the NSB in the whole or whether the NSB is going to compete with Connex in the whole of competing bus transport. There's only one way to discriminate against their own company, that is to say, to be bad owners of capital and values and administrators. Sometimes you can wonder if the right side will actually show that the state is not good at running a store, so they make it as difficult as they can for them. So some other points. Ownership in CargoNet: The labor party is opposed to selling down. We want the NSB to have interests in both passenger and freight traffic. We see that there are some potential areas of conflict there. I see that there can be a downsal to enter into any strategic alliances to increase the supply of goods in Norway. It may affect us when or if it comes. We will even promise to deal with it quickly, if necessary. So a little bit back to the exchange policy. The entry deals with us in the § 10 message, or in the ownership message, in March last year, I believe. Then we said we'd take that and so much exchange. When the revised national budget came, the proposal was much higher. And when the revised national budget was agreed, it was completely on the roof, and far from what is acceptable. On Tuesday, a proposal was made here in the Chamber relating to a matter of State power, to create a rule in which the General Assembly cannot review the Board's decisions on exchange. We still think it might have been a good idea, and we'd like to get back to it if we get another multiple after the election. Before the world it was often that if someone were to justify each of them politically, he said that the reason he was a worker party was that his father was a railwayman. The automation is probably not so absolute anymore, but I believe that if the railway workers and women read the position and heard the debate today, and insofar as earlier debates on rail operations in Norway, there would be many who saw the red-green option – also called the red-hazard – as the red possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e492	The President will hope that it does not increase the frequency of trains running towards red.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e495	In the almost four years I've been here at Stortinget, the close contact with the NSB has become bigger than before. I have actually learned to appreciate the train as a good collective offer, suitable for both commuting and tourist trips. But that the train to Grenland takes three hours should be part of the story. Travel time here is a major competitive disadvantage, and of course part of the reason why people instead use other means of entry when, for example. the capital shall be visited. But in this case, the NSB AS is going to be debated, and I'm going to deal with it. For there are also other explanations that the NSB is struggling to bring passenger transport on some routes, including to Grenland. One of the premises to be dealt with by the NSB is to ensure a public-friendly train offer. Therefore, in spring 2003 the NSB also launched a comprehensive market-oriented conversion programme. An overall objective of this programme is to make it much easier to be a customer of the NSB. And that's where I stay as a question mark. As a train customer on the Skien–Oslo route, I have actually not noticed much about this goal. Punctuality has improved. But it has triggered me repeatedly how inaccessible the NSB has made itself in Grenland. The train offer is not marketed, stations are closed, and until all over-measures the train has now been replaced on certain departures from Grenland by bus to Larvik, and on some departures there is now a bus from Larvik to Grenland. Does NSB think that the audience will then use the train? I don't think so. The government puts in place a concentration of effort on urban areas where the railways are the most important for the environment and transport. I fully agree with that. And I dare say that Grenland, with its 100,000 inhabitants, a continuous city band, looks forward to this bet. In the light of my experience with the NSB, it must be timely to ask whether the NSB has not engaged too heavily in the bus sector and thus become its own competitor, negatively viewed. I agree with the majority of the committee that is concerned about the NSB as one for dominant buses. I think the railway can be confused that way. Good marketing combined with greater customer focus and active accommodation to and from the track is important to get people to take the train. It is therefore necessary to assess the size of the NSB’s bus activities and the type of involvement in this area, just as the Government Parties and the Advance Party are now asking the Ministry to do in this case. And I'm addressing this further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e510	A strong NSB in the future is an important strategy for achieving national objectives in transport policy, for increasing rail passenger transport and for increasing rail freight. The railway has only 4 pst. of passenger transport and 8-9 pst. of the carriage of goods. It's too little. From a significant decline in passenger traffic in the years 2000–03, we now see an increase. The NSB reports increased passenger numbers and is positive. The report ‘Development of rail passenger traffic’, prepared by the NSB and the Railway Agency, tells a good deal about the reason for the decline we had: punctuality problems, three major railway accidents and unfortunate incidents on the railways, the introduction of new ticket systems, the conversion of ticket sales, the increase in the number of express buses and the quality of other travel services such as cars, buses and aircraft. The central thing here is that NSB can do a lot of things on its own to improve the offer. They have, but it's still a potential for improvement. I see that the report mentions the introduction of short- and medium-distance trains on the Nordlandsbahn, i.e. the seven-hour journey between Trondheim and Bodø, as a negative factor. Nothing has been done about the day train offer on the Nordlandsbahn. The NSB must have the right train equipment with good comfort on all routes where they carry passengers, whether long distance, medium or short distance, regardless of whether there are many or few people travelling by train. It's about the reputation of the NSB. My impression is that the NSB is on the right track, and that a good job is done in the company. Political decisions here in Stortinget also affect the development of the NSB, not least in terms of how much is invested in the railway track and how other transport areas are prioritised. Here in SV we believe that there needs to be significantly more investment in the infrastructure in the years to come, if we are to increase the share of freight and passenger transport. Several train companies are now entering the Norwegian rail market. The majority of the population have decided to put off competition. In this perspective, we in SV believe that there is every reason to conclude on the NSB and to ensure that the company is equipped in the future to meet the competition of the major international players who are now in several transport areas on their way into the Norwegian market. These are companies that are twice or three times the size of the NSB and operate in all transport areas – trains, buses, boats, etc. This does not mean the majority here in the Chamber. The progress party will sell the NSB. At the same time, they will strip the company, separate both the freight part and the bus part. What kind of national transport strategy is that? The Government Parties and the Advance Party are engaged in building up the NSB group. There is considerable concern that the bus business has become too large and they ask the Government to carefully assess the size of the NSB’s bus business. Here the original argument is used that the bus business can undermine the NSB’s commitment to railway operations. It is pure speculation — and at least not from the strategies of the NSB Board of Directors and management for the company’s business. It's a strength for the NSB that they have more legs to stand on, and that they can develop a collective offer where buses and trains can complement each other. This is done in other large companies in all other countries. Why is it so wrong to do it in Norway? It is also a proper strategy — in the light of the forthcoming competition — that the NSB is regarded as its domestic market for passenger transport and Europe for freight. Here we fully agree with the Government in SV. If you want more people to travel by train, you have to travel by train, among other things. stations are accessible and public friendly. There must be opening times adapted to the need, no closed waiting rooms and good public information, and there must be open stations on all routes where trains are running and where trains are stopped. The standard in many stations is too poor. Train stations must be upgraded. We call for a clarification of who should own and be responsible for the railway stations in the future. At the beginning of this pouring period, it was announced that the train stations would be transferred to the railway station and that the railway station would develop the stations for good public transport hubs. This has not happened, and we now expect the Council of State to take the initiative to clarify the future responsibilities quickly. Finally, there is a majority to introduce tax-free sales on foreign routes, as is the case on aircraft and ferries. I would just like to point out that it was intended to apply to all foreign sections, even where other than the NSB is responsible for the operation of the train. I could imagine asking the council to confirm that she interprets it the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e543	The representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt concluded his speech by saying – in a speech – that the railway worker is a worker party. For the Christian People's Party, it is important in railway policy to remember to put the travellers in focus. At my discretion, they come from all parties – some are even quite indefinable politically. I think that's important to take into account in NSB's future investment. The articles so far have shown that there is a fairly large consensus on the future operation of the NSB. The large dividing line goes at the Progress Party, which, in the view of the Christian People's Party, will frustrate Norwegian railway operations. I'll come back to that at the end of my post. In the Christian People's Party, we are surprised that the parties that speak most strongly to bet on the NSB in the future are so occupied with the bus business. In particular, it is surprising that the Socialist Left is making bus investment a major feature of this debate, when it is the railway we are discussing here. The Christian People's Party is in doubt as to whether the NSB's major bus effort – through Nettbuss – is compatible with the company's primary task of operating the railway. Of course, a heavy bus company will compete in all segments, including sections where NSB operates trains with State aid. 40 pst. the revenue of the NSB comes from the purchases of the country. On sections where one competes with oneself, – according to the view of the Christian People's Party – Netbuss should not be part of the competition. In that case, it would mean that the State would have to pay more to maintain train traffic in the same area, while at the same time making money on the bus company that runs in parallel. So a little bit about my heartchild, the Northern Railway. It was given a promise in connection with the collective communication provided by the Government. Then the Nordlandsbanen became a main track section, and this has led to a massive upgrading. This year, 100 million will be used. kr to complete GSM-R and ATS. It's torn out of tunnels, and there's new crossing tracks. In the view of the Christian People's Party, this will have to lead to a stronger bet by the NSB and CargoNet, both on freight traffic and on increasing passenger transport in the area. The regional trains have been successful and the NSB shall be commended. The night train goes well and is accurate, and it takes passengers. The cheap tickets here have been an encouragement to people in the north, and I am happy that this is going to continue. However, the fact that the Agenda trains are used as a day train is currently not entirely satisfactory. We're waiting in excitement for the new chairs, and then we'll see if people are satisfied with them. But for the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that it must be a goal that in the future the locomotives will also be carriers on the Nordic Railway in the daytime. So a little bit about Arctic Rail Express – the freight route from Alna to Narvik – which is also a success. The Christian People's Party will be a driving force for CargoNet to further develop and secure this offer. So finally, the big distinction between the Advance Party and the other parties. That the Progress Party will quote and privatise the NSB is nothing new. We can relate to that. But the big difference lies in the actual bet on the railway network. Instead of strengthening the railway, the Progress Party will build up its business. Let me quote from what they write in the setting on page 6: ‘These members indicate that this growth is likely to be transitory.’ So you would prefer the growth in the number of passengers to be transitory. And then they write: ‘For the transport of persons by road, both in private cars and in buses, development shows a stable and strong growth. It would therefore be natural, in the view of these members, to invest in a strong development of the road network.» So an enterprise message about the NSB is used to talk about a major expansion of the road network. Then we wonder who was in a minority when we dealt with the National Transport Plan, where the Progress Party joined with the majority and said that we should have a strong stake on the railway – yes, it should be spent another 10 billion kroner: where does this bet become?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e568	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e571	It is quite right that Sahl refers to the fact that the Progress Party wanted a strong commitment on the road sector and that the government parties were in a minority because they did not want that commitment on the road sector. And when the choice is between giving an extra DKK 1 billion a year and an extra DKK 1 billion to the railway rather than giving less money, our choice is quite clear. So the representative Sahl has understood the situation quite correctly. But that's not what made me take the word. It was actually Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, who said in her post that she doesn't understand how we can treat our own company like this. This clearly shows how bad it is with state ownership in a transport company, that in Stortinget we take out one company and discuss the framework conditions for it, while in the Ministry of Transport ownership. Because what Starrfelt says implicitly is that the NSB should be specifically treated in competition with other actors. It's something I take a great distance from. Not enough with that. Mr Starrfelt also opposes the proposal by the Progress Party that ownership be transferred from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It must be quite clear that if an owner is to draw up tender criteria, negotiate the en route criteria and eventually assign the mission, it is a hold-up to those degrees. In other private companies, it would have been totally illegal to do so. But Starrfelt doesn't see it. Now, of course, one can say that the Workers' Party and SV are opposed to competitive outsourcing; they do not want to have competition. But now it's the way reality has gone down over this house as well. In fact, it has been decided that we should have competition. Then you have to relate to that reality. I could imagine getting a review from Starrfelt if she doesn't see the dilemma that arises here. So Geir-Ketil Hansen is shocked that the Progress Party wants to sell NSB. Pulling out Hansen’s thinking completely must mean that he feels that Hurtigruta and Onøe should also be statelike, since they live in the same world with monopoly. Does that mean that, in the future, Hansen might consider buying or expropriating OVDS from Narvik in order to use this as a means of transporting it in the future? It would be nice if Hansen could explain to me the difference between the different responsibilities of Hurtigruta and Ontøe, versus NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e584	Just a few words for Jan Sahl and Kenneth Svendsen. Jan Sahl was amazed that SV was so busy keeping the bus business in the NSB. What I said in my post was that we now see that we get large foreign players into the Norwegian market that operate in different ways. Connex is now entering Norway. They have purchased Finnmark County Company, they are about to buy up Helgelandsk, and they announce that they will submit tenders for the total national road haulage operation. We get big foreign players into the market in different areas. We see no problem that the NSB should be equipped to meet that competition, that they should have more legs to stand on, and that they can build offers that complement each other. That's what they've done, and it's helped to increase the collective share. So to Kenneth Svendsen and this strange problem of comparing Hurtigruta with NSB. Kenneth Svendsen has to read history of transportation. OVDS and TFDS are companies built of municipalities, county municipalities, local owners and local banks. They have their history in regional and local ownership. There's no reason to change that. The NSB is built by the State as part of the national railway deployment strategy here in Norway. I would like to ask Svendsen: when the Progress Party wants to put NSB on the stock exchange and sell it, will it be problematic for the Progress Party if Connex, Arriva or other major European transport companies buy up the NSB and the company leaves the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e593	To the question from the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen about tax-free sales on trains should apply to all foreign sections regardless of company, I would say that this will probably be given a proper answer. That's a fundamental question. Now there are probably other departments that are more involved in this matter than the Ministry of Transport. It will be a question that I would think will also depend on how other countries – here it is Sweden – want to deal with in principle. And it is clear that what I as Minister of Transport ask myself is: are we really talking about how we can ensure a good train link between Norway and Sweden? That's what it's all about for me. I have to say that I would like to have the train between Oslo and Stockholm in place better than we have today, and then it becomes a strange angle for me that we address the question of selling spirits and perfumes on these means of transport between two countries as an important question, when it really might be a question of what kind of transport services we are going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e598	I was a little in doubt if I should be drawn up by the representative Svendsen. I basically didn't. I didn't let myself be drawn in the sense that I was angry, but it allows me to point out the differences between the Progress Party and the Labour Party when it comes to railway policy in this country. Yeah, we'll treat the NSB extraordinarily. We wanted only the NSB to be responsible for passenger transport in this country. It would have been best and safest for the Norwegian population. But we are aware that the majority have decided that there should be competition. I think it should be non-discrimination. And the equal treatment is that both NSB AS, Arriva, Connex and many others are free to have both train and bus companies. Then the counter-question to Kenneth Svendsen may be: Is it so that Kenneth Svendsen will forbid Arriva and Connex to have both trains and buses in Norway? If they search for competing squares on sections that NSB has won, do they prohibit them from going parallel? This is what I don't understand. We're not having problems with non-discrimination, it's actually the multiples here that have problems with non-discrimination. I hope NSB AS can deal with that, but I think it's going to be a little bit problematic. And then the Council of State may be a little bit indignant at the fact that spirits and perfumes are going to scare the railroad. Yes, at least it gives revenue to both aircraft and boat, which is more impudent. And once again, it's about non-discrimination. If we are to have brandy and perfume halls first when people are going to travel by a means of transport, which gives revenue to that means of transport, it is not up to us in the Labour Party that the most environmentally friendly, the most land efficient and the safest travel option should not be allowed to do so, across borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e607	It's a sign of health that we get so much heated debate about the NSB and the railways in Norway. We appreciate that. This has been a debate that shows that there are differences in transport policy in Norway. There has been a great deal of debate between traditionalists and modernists. And I dare sit in the ranks of the modernists. It is therefore true that we have carried out a reorganization of Norwegian transport. We have AS-certified NSB, and the socialists are opposed. We believe that reorganisation in AS gives companies greater freedom with regard to planning and funding, while others thus feel that state control is more important than taking out the inherent competence of the companies, by giving them greater freedom through a state limited liability company. The sociologists are against it. The same applies to competition. Competition is nothing but an important quality control, quality control of operation and quality control of resource use. That's what makes good environmental policies. This is what the socialists say no to. So to Nettbuss. I understand that someone says that when Arriva and Connex and large carriers get on the track, it is interesting to see how the NSB should be able to do without bus operations. Since the railway is the starting point for this debate, it is very far ahead – probably no one here is sitting on the bank when the time comes – until the NSB gets a strong competitor on the railway side. We have very good time to discuss developments that are going to happen until then. It's far ahead, and there's no need to worry. I rather think the socialists should worry if the NSB doubles on the bus and halves on the railway. You don't see any dimensioning, you don't see any danger in that way of dealing with the railway? We believe – and we are deeply concerned about – that such a policy will erode the basis of the rail system. And we think it's a completely realistic way of dealing with this question. We believe that the most important thing for the NSB is to be a railway carrier. And finally, CargoNet. Once again, the socialists say no to sell themselves down, even though the only reason to sell themselves into CargoNet from the NSB's current 51 pst. have to be challenges through cooperation with other carriers in Europe in order to make rail more powerful. That's the only reason, through the introduction of capital and the introduction of competences. That's when it'll be important to do this maneuver. And I don't realize that the socialists dare to refuse to give the NSB the freedom to make the railway stronger in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e622	Kenneth Svendsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e625	I asked for the floor of the representative of Starrfelt and Hansen. There is a significant difference here, namely that the NSB is using state resources to intervene in a market that works perfectly well. In a situation where the NSB was an ordinary listed company with private owners, they could buy up as many bus companies as they wanted for me, with the restrictions that of course were in competition law, which had to intervene if there was too strong a monopoly. In this case, the Competition Authority has also been in and said something about it. It is amazing that the discussion by the Workers' Party, SVs and the Centre's side is largely about ownership, and almost is not about the use – about the customer. The customer should be allowed to choose, the customer will receive a proper offer through the competition that is. I am not a competitor for competition, but for the customer to get a better offer. Finally, I would say that this with tax-free of course applies to all cross-border traffic, not just over Svinesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e634	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Three, and the debate has come to its end. [[Fotation, see page 1717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e649	On 7 January 2005, the fines for traffic offences were adopted by approx. 30 pst. from the previous year, with a level of fine likely to be the highest in the world. In the same period, the price growth was 1.2 pst. If we look at the tables attached to the documents, we see that with the Norwegian level of fines, we are miles away from all other European countries, including the countries with which we normally compare. Looking at developments from 1990 to today, progress at the level is dramatic, with an increase of up to 320 pst. This, with fines, has evolved from being used as a traffic controller in relation to offences, assessing the severity of the offence and penalising it in relation to other criminal matters, such as: victories or disturbances of order. Obviously, it's the end of it. Now, obviously, the Ministry of Finance is running the race, based on what kind of income the government needs. This means that fines for traffic offences have in reality become a new charge for the drivers. This takes the Progress Party at the strongest distance from. From a road safety perspective, there is nothing to suggest an increase in the level of fines. The reactions from the various floors have been partly strong. I allow myself to quote from several media about sharp reactions from a wide range of stakeholder organisations and police officers: «This is your madness, says trust-chosen Jørn Flata of the Police Joint Union.» Further: ‘They react in particular to the excess of the rates in relation to other offences resulting in fines.’ Further: ‘This applies, inter alia, to disorder of the order, drug offences and fighting at the body’s border.’ And on the other hand, ‘He has received many feedback on the high fines imposed by police officers and, according to Flatha, they are negative.’ This is from Hamar Dagblad on 19 January 2005. The World’s Times on 14 January 2005 the Transport Economic Institute, on which the Government usually leans heavily, quotes the fact that increased fines do not make the drivers more law-abiding if the likelihood of being taken is low. Dr. Polit writes in the trade journal Samferdsel, November 2004. Rune Elvik: ‘In order to improve compliance by road users with traffic rules, there is a further increase in charges and the simplification of the proposal is hardly the way to go, unless the police control effort is increased at the same time.’ It is very worrying that the fines for all over-measures by the Government or the Ministry are unlikely to be fixed in the desire to improve road safety. This is supported by the Aftenposten report on 25 January 2005, where the following can be quoted: ‘Central sources in the government apparatus inform the Evening Post that it was not the Ministry of Transport that supported the proposal that led to strong increases from the next Tuesday. In other words, there was no particular concern about road safety behind the proposal, which the Ministry of Finance is the driving force behind it.» So now that we're going to have fines as a basis for income, in my view, is completely wrong, and I'm going to take the strongest distance from it. It is also true that the level of fines which have evolved recently probably leads to several cases being brought into the legal system, in an already overburdened legal system. This may lead to others having to wait longer in line to deal with their much more serious issues, and it will also be a cost to society. There is also another danger when the level of fines is as extreme as it has been in Norway. That's how people perceive the level of punishment in relation to other offenses, and, in part, crimes. One already sees that the minimum pensioners ask for them to be put in prison rather than for the state to take almost their entire minimum pension. Is there such a society we want? At least it's not such a society the Progress Party wants. Let it be clear that the Progress Party also wants rough drivers and irresponsible drivers to be taken hard, but it has to be done. It shall not be such that if an otherwise law-abiding citizen slips a little above the speed limit, or once forgets to use the flashlight, the penalty shall in an improper manner not be proportionate to criminal measures in the event of other offences which, in my view, are much more serious. I had hoped that it would be much more effective in terms of punishment for other crimes and that it would react as quickly and as hard as drug crimes, violent crimes and the like. But there is a much more relaxed attitude. In many places, the speed limit has been lowered, precisely because of the lack of road construction and road maintenance appropriations by the bulk of the population. The speed limits in Norway — and the level of fines — are therefore, in many respects, a sign of disease, by covering the total lack of investment in an effective transport policy. There is a policy that causes road users to lose respect for traffic rules and speed limits. This is a very dangerous development. Finally, I understand that we don't have to bring up the proposals here, but I can inform the President that I intend to vote in favour of the three proposals that lie here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e704	I feel this as an application for an attackille support for the Progress Party. They're undoing what they did in the budget. They've spent the money, but they're undoing it. They are not supported by the Working Party. We've also used the money, and we're not going to undo it. When it comes to assessment in relation to other countries and other criminal matters, we in the Labour Party argued that the Government, with the two existing state councils, particularly in this context, considers this and, if natural, initiates change. We don't need to order this now. We think the government should decide the fines in the future as well. We basically believe that this is an unforeseeable proposal, so the Labour Party will vote against the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e711	Let me first tell the representative from the Workers' Party that we deeply disagree, if you want to try to claim that these violent increases in the fines for traffic offences of about 30 p.m. is a result of the budget and budgetary conciliation. We've gone through the budget, and especially the chapter. 4634 item 81, and tried to figure out what would be a logical explanation of the increases there compared to the ageing budget for 2004. Based on the numbers that appear on the income chapter, I accept that we could expect an increase in the fines of about 3 pst. – a little above the price increase, but not much. That is what was at stake, based on the information provided to the Storting in the course of the budgetary procedure. It is also confirmed in a letter from the Minister for Transport to the Group of the Progressive Alliance that we cannot be said to be responsible for this in any way. It has always been a firm practice and system that there are some fines, fees, prices and charges that are not adopted by the Stortinget. The petrol tax is adopted by the Stortinget, the alcohol tax is adopted by Stortinget, but there are a good number of other, smaller things that the Government decides. And we always expect that many of these will increase as prices rise. We also expected that when it came to the fines. However, the increase in the budget was due to an increase in the level of fines for traffic offences and an alleged increase in the use of automatic traffic control. Then it's the government's responsibility. At least we had the confidence in the Government, including as negotiating partner in the conciliation, that if you had plans for something very dramatic – and it is dramatic to increase fines that are probably the world's highest in advance, by another 30 pst. – it would be made clear in the negotiations, even if it did not appear directly in the budget, that this was the intention, so that we could have responded during the negotiations. I am sure that the Workers' Party would have reacted in the same way, if they had tried to push ahead of a government's own responsibility. But that's the situation. When this was done in January, at a kgl. resolution, there was a shock for all of us, except for those who might have known about it in advance, and there was no one in our party who knew. Then it's actually quite possible to do something about it. It is possible that I recall wrong, but when this debate fell at worst, I believe that there were many in the Workers' Party who also reacted negatively to these sky-high new fines. But I understand that the Labour Party is giving this its approval today, and that the Progress Party is likely to be alone in the proposal to reintroduce the fines in 2004. That's a good piece of information, which we're going to pass on to the Norwegian people in different contexts. Our proposal in Document No. 8:39 is divided into three terms. First of all: ‘The Government requests that the fines for traffic offences be set at 2004 levels, adjusted only for normal price increases.’ That's what we could read out of the budget. So we want to reintroduce the 2004 rates. It's actually fully possible. You can't say that the state needs the money, because only a few hours of oil production, based on the new and higher oil price, will cover the money you might not get by going back to the level of 2004. The Treasury floods with money, so it's not for money needs you do this. We're going back to the 2004 level. Then we have the second term in the proposal, II, where we ask to get ‘an assessment of Norwegian traffic offences fines in relation to the level of equivalent fines in comparable countries, as well as an assessment of the penalty rates for traffic offences compared to other criminal offences’. And in particular, I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice. A democratic, good society depends on the people’s confidence in the legal provisions, their perception of the legal provisions and, in fact, the punishment – and that is what fines are – as reasonable and reasonable in relation to the crime. If the National Assembly is far removed from what most people consider to be sensible and sensible, it is a danger signal to a real democracy, to be governed from below. There are several professors in law who are just claiming this principle as a basis for democracy, that what the legislator is doing must be perceived by the broad body of the people as a sensible reaction to criminal acts. I think this point is very important. Unfortunately, we do not have referendums on such things in Norway, but quite a number of polls show that a significant majority of the Norwegian people think the level of punishment for theft, robbery, burglary and killing is too low in relation to the seriousness of the criminal act. There are many polls where it is said that you want a higher level of punishment. Yes, in fact, even unanimous judicial committees in the United Kingdom have said that the level of penalties for burglary, theft, murder, robbery, bank robbery, post office etc. is too low. It is one of the problems that the Stortinget also faces in connection with the new penal code: how do you get the courts to use all the sanctions they have instead of always getting to the bottom? It is a challenge for democracy whether it is for the courts to take on a legislative role, or whether it is for the national Parliament to have, and should have, that role, as we have, among other things. means. It's about criminal acts, and most people think that the level of punishment is too low. It's unfortunate in itself. It would have been interesting, as I said, to get some views from the Minister of Justice on the issue of principle — not the individual level of punishment, but the principle of dissatisfaction between the people and the criminal justice system. In terms of the fines that we have here for treatment, it's the exact opposite. If you drive too fast, 5 a.m. on a straight line where there's no danger, but where there's a police check, there's a general rage that you can get thousands of dollars in fine for something that's really fine. Had we had a technique, we would of course have varied speed limits in time. Of course, we must have strict rules and regulations where road users, children or others in traffic are at risk – I fully agree with that. But where there are long, nice and straight distances at a time when there is no special traffic, you don't see any difference in the rates. It's just how many miles above the border you're going to go. With regard to the new fines, we have been clearly informed by the police that they are completely meaningless. We are now also at risk of burdens on the judiciary, in the sense that we do not have to adopt the simplified proposals that the fines are. You can go to the courts, and the courts then have to go into each case, because they have some general principles to apply, including: as regards the size of the fine in relation to the circumstances of the individual case. These indicative rates may then be endorsed by the courts. It's in itself very unfortunate. Therefore, we had hoped that the representatives who did not know about these things in advance – after having seen all the reactions, and when we know that we do not need the money – could be with us to reintroduce the fines from 2004, until at least we got a real case from the Government that compared the situation in Norway and in other countries we can compare with. Our third and last proposal is that we want a system in which the Government informs ‘The size in a suitable way in advance of significant changes in the fines for traffic offences’. There we also have it in mind that if, in a draft budget, it is a government's intention and wish to increase, for example. The fines of 30 p.m., we actually have legal provisions that make the Government obliged to inform about such – obligation! And the state councils that are present, and cannot do the Liability Act of 5 February 1932, can only read § 9 – as another state council should have read too! To be honest, if you want to increase something by 30 pst, you have a duty to inform the Storting. Because Section 9 states that one is obliged to inform if one ‘understands or ought to understand’ that this type of information will require the Stortinget to make its decision. Obviously, if you have an intention to increase the fines by 30 pst. to cover a round amount that includes many items in a budget, that obligation falls under Section 9 of the Liability Act. If you had decided on a sum of NOK 1,050,000,000, you would have started to discuss how to do it, you'd have a different situation. Then you did not have that intention in advance. But anyway, we want this kind of thing to be presented to the National Assembly. It should not be that the government offices are sitting and discussing how to trick the national assembly, hiding their real intentions from the national assembly: how should we wrap it up, so that the representatives of the guttering do not understand it, but when it is implemented, and they discover it, then we should be able to say that they should have understood it? There are several who have tried it, among others. the president of the Transport Committee, Petter Løvik, who says you should understand it from the text of the chapter. 4634(81), Fines, withdrawals: «The entry includes revenue from fines [[Simplified submissions, ordinary submissions and fines imposed by judgment]] And like I said, if we divided the whole increase by 50 pst. at the fine level and 50 pst. on automatic traffic control, in conjunction with the 2004 budget, it would be equivalent to 3 pst. increase, not 30 pst. At least we can't have a system that's now such that a government can wrap it up in such difficult sentences that you have to do detective work in the Stortinget to see what's going on. In fact, under Section 9 of the Liability Act, a government has an obligation to present its intentions and then get a proper, democratic treatment in the National Assembly. I am pleased that the Minister of Transport has grown up enough to confirm in a letter what I have said that the increase in the fines alone is the responsibility of the Government. We hope that it will also be passed on to government parties' representatives and other politicians, so that those who are still walking around and want to plan bluffs do not. I would believe that it would not be particularly appropriate for the current government parties to ensure that we enter into an election campaign in which we are given responsibility for the Minister of Transport himself said we have no responsibility for. It's not the very good, sensible tone, if you look forward in time – beyond September 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e758	There are two things in this case. One relates to the actual content, namely the amount of the traffic fines. So today, those who want to reduce this increase by 30 pst, can actually make sure that it's reduced. By the increase in traffic penalty rates, we have further strengthened the world record position in the fine for traffic offences. There's no reason why we're going to be like this. So here's the full opportunity to get our fines back down to the 2004 level. So it's also so that there can't be a lack of money that makes you raise the fines by 30 pst. The Treasury is flooding with money. So it's not poverty that makes you go to this step. In fact, to all intents and purposes, the police authorities warn against having such high fines, and they warn against costing more to run against red light than to exercise violence. This is contrary to people's legal opinion in general, and I also see that there are experts on road safety who question whether this has any impact on the road safety image itself. That's the one. The other has to do with budget and credibility. I agree with the previous speaker, my party chairman, that the answer given by the Minister for Transport clearly leaves the impression – as the Progress Party has always argued in the matter – that this is not our responsibility and that the fines have been adopted in the Council of State. There we have received a clear explanation from the Minister of Transport. I would specifically like it to be communicated to the Right Party of Government. I have seen that the right government party in particular has been very concerned about giving the Progress Party responsibility for 30 p.m. increase in traffic penalty rates, and say that this was known to the Progress Party when they entered into a subsidiary agreement to support the Government Party's budget proposals. That's not the case. It should take the right inwards. And of course, the right should settle for the very clarifying answer that the Minister of Transport has given. Yesterday, during the spontaneous Question Time, there was also a slight exchange of lines between the Prime Minister and the representative Hagen on budgetary matters. The Prime Minister said, among other things: the following: ‘I expect Hagen to stand by what he has done and to be a credible partner in this way.’ I hope now that the Right Government Party will be a credible partner and will not give us responsibility for decisions that are not actually part of the budget, but which the Government has made on its own, independent basis by decision of the Council of State. In fact, it would be a little credible if the Right continues the picture that this increase in traffic charges is due to the Progress Party. It doesn't. The simple and straightforward solution to clear up any doubts about this is to ensure that the fines come back to the 2004 level and that we receive the treatment of fines proposed by the Progress Party in its proposal. First of all, all representatives who want lower traffic fines than has now become – the world record in fines for even simple traffic offences – have today the opportunity to do something about it. They can support the proposals of the Progress Party, bring the level of fines down again, and get a sensible follow-up to the fine system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e780	I would just like to stress that the Progress Party in the Financial Committee, in the context of the budgetary process, was not at any time informed by the Government Party that there were plans to increase the level of fines on traffic rules in such a drastic and dramatic way as this has been done. That's how our party president stressed, that one could read that there were plans for a small increase of a few percent, but not such a dramatic increase as has been done here. One can of course do such things as Petter Løvik, say that when there is a different understanding of an item, it is everyone else's fault. It is of course after Løvik's opinion never the government's fault, and the Progress Party should react. I think this is a very special sense of reality. I would also like to stress that none of the hearing bodies, those who came to the hearing, reacted to this. There was no one who suspected that there was a planar about such a drastic increase. I thought the government and the government party should go by themselves and realize that they should have informed about this. It seems that one of us has committed himself to deceiving the National Assembly, rubbing his hands and also fooling his budget partner. That's what I think is a very special attitude to have. I don't think the government's thinking about it in length. There are massive feedbacks from voters and road users that this increase is both unimaginable and incomprehensible. Here, then, we have a level of fines for infringements of traffic rules that are up to the level of fines that one has if one gets caught with drugs. It is now just as punishable, and one gets equal fines to drive too fast on an outlying stretch as to be drawn with drugs on Karl Johan. It is incomprehensible that the Government will adopt such a practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e791	The representative Hagen has taken up some fundamental considerations that I think he is entitled to get another comment, that's why I took the floor. As regards the information given in this case, I note that the Progress Party has the opinion they have expressed here. The Government has submitted information on a case-by-case basis both in the Finance Committee and in the Justice Committee. But I notice the views on what information is expected to do, and how to pass it on. As far as the actual chapter is concerned, as far as I remember, it is increasing, according to my number brain from 904 million. NOK 1050 million. kr. It's percent larger than 3 pst. I notice how you perceive this. It has been presented that way by the Government, and at least the purpose has been not to hide anything. With regard to the concrete fines, it is absolutely right that the Government should determine them, as explained in a response from the Minister of Transport to the Grand Duchy. The second question raised by Mr Hagen is the issue of punishment and response in general. There is one matter here in the Justice Committee at the moment about the general part of the criminal law – which does not go on the criminal register, because it will come in its turn. It is clear that the government has committed itself to tightening up criminal sanctions for repeat crime, organised crime and crime that violates sexual integrity, violates life and health, and is serious in every way. It is also apparent from criminal investigations that this is followed up by the courts. There are also views from the Government on how the courts in general should deal with mitigating circumstances when assessing the individual case. In the case of fines other than simplified prescriptions, which is the subject of today's debate, they are not administered by the administrative board, they are largely governed by the prosecution authority, and are assessed on a case-by-case basis by the prosecution authority and by the courts. With regard to the most serious conditions, e.g.: violence, it's not usually fines you use, to say it the way you use other criminal reactions, because it's reasonable and right to react that way. Of course, I have noticed the views expressed in the debate, and I would like to take them further with me on the various points that have been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e810	What made me take the floor in this case was two things. One was Starrfelt, which is essentially the only one who has taken the word here. It seems to me that the rest of the assembly with its bent head is trying to keep this matter to its own devices, but it is not possible. I want to go back a little bit to the statements from some people, and then especially the Right, that we should have seen this. Now, for the Financial Committee as for other committees, the presentation of the State budget is being reviewed, among other things. by the various organisations outside the community. In this case, there is one matter that Norway's Automobile Association, Royal Copenhagen Norwegian Automobile Club, Norway's Truck Car Association and other major organisations are reviewing with a view to finding things that they will try to influence the Financial Committee and the Stortinget to make changes in the hearing. Then it should ring a bell when none of these organisations have seen what it says, or understood what it says. The question is, has this been done in such a way that the Storting should be tricked into adopting this? In the debate that has taken place, I find it more and more obvious that this is the case, that one has tried to cover it in a way, so that the Storting should not understand that one did this. Then, of course, you can claim that the Storting should have understood. But it should, as I said, have called a bell when none of the hearing bodies said anything about this, but afterwards react spontaneously and vigorously when it becomes known that the fines are increased to such a level. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has also established what the Minister of Transport has previously stated. But I want to read out what's in the letter, with the background that the Workers' Party and Starrfelt are trying to use this unhindered -- that we knew about this, we could do this, and it's our fault, this. So they're trying to trick themselves into voting for this proposal. But such lightweight solutions are not acceptable. I think the Workers' Party should go on its own and make its views known on a real basis. The letter from the Minister of Transport states in the last section: ‘If the State Secretary Ellingen’s opinion in the said TV 2 programme could be understood as explicitly contributing to and accepting the new concrete level of the fines, this is unfortunate. In this case, it is undeniable that the relevant changes in the rates of simplified presentation of road traffic cases were adopted by the King of the Council of State on 7 January 2005 and that, of course, the Progress Party had no role in this regard.» It should then be so clear that even the Workers' Party understands it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e826	I have just a brief comment on the Minister of Justice's misunderstanding – it may be because I referred to a little error in my own post, which is what the increase is. 4634 item 81 is. So it's not from 904 million. kr. That's the initial budgetary weighting. It is clear that when we are going to consider what the increase proposals are, we need to look at the recent ageing of the same harvest as we are doing in the budgetary procedure, and then there was a significant increase in 2004 from these fines, then without any increase. I went through this thoroughly in my letter to Minister for Transport Skogsholm. But I think that's how the increase in this item is smaller, about 8-9 pst, and when you divide it by the different things, we figure out that we could expect an increase in the penalty rate of 3 pst. This is because of course we have to compare with the reality of 2004 and not what was planned for 2004 the previous year. It makes me ask a question to the Minister of Transport, or the Minister of Justice – it has been a big problem to find out which state council it is really responsible here. It was also a problem when we were going to find out which committee would possibly be responsible here. Nobody really wants to be responsible for this. But I understand that, because it is probably an office that has done so, without having made their own bosses aware of it. But the superiors can never admit it anyway, so we never get clarity in that. My point is that if, in the context of the revised budget this spring, it turns out that there are additional revenue in relation to the 2005 budget, there are two things to do: either to instruct the police not to build more boxes or to reduce the number of checks, or to reduce the fines, so that we do not have an income far above the budget at the end of 2005. I would like to ask if any of the councils can say that if it turns out that you get revenue in addition to the expected budget, the revenue will be used to reduce the fines for the remaining part of the year. Or will they be used to instruct the police and road authorities to reduce the number of automatic boxes or checks? Or is it that the government just wants to sit and enjoy that there's more money coming from the drivers than they had planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e835	I understand that the Advance Party needs to make a difference in this matter. I also know that the Progress Party has sent a letter to the Minister for Transport and received an answer to that question. I also understood that the representative Carl I. Hagen has been satisfied with that answer. But the reason I'm taking the floor is the use of language in the hall. It has been my intention for all the years I have been the parliamentary leader in the Right and led various debates in the House relating to the budget, that everything should be done fairly and properly. And I take it quite personally that someone makes claims in the hall that someone has tried to trick someone. If there's something far from my position in politics, it's tricking someone. This has been presented in the budget, as it tends to be presented in the budget. If it is that the Progress Party thought that there has been too little information related to it, it is a straightforward claim. But it's far from there to say that someone has tricked someone. I would like to ask Carl I. Hagen to come up to the pulpit and confirm that the undersigned has never tried to trick the Progress Party in any negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e845	Carl I. Hagen, is that a line?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e848	Well, it's a formal line, but it's actually going to be a replica, because the post was shaped as a concrete question. I have no problem saying that I have never realized that the Right parliamentary leader, Oddvard Nilsen, has ever tried to trick us. I have not said that this time either. I have talked about the government having a separate obligation under Section 9 of the Liability Act to provide adequate information to Stortinget. If the government was already going to increase the fines by 30 p.m., the government in its documents should have made it known to the Stortinget. I've been dealing with the Government and the government apparatus. I should not be surprised if Oddvard Nilsen was as surprised as I was when the fines were raised by 30 p.m., because none of us in the Stortinget knew. Even with detective activities, we would have established that the fines were calculated to go up by 3 pst, and not by 30 pst. But I have not brought any charges against the Right parliamentary leader. If I've put it this way, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e857	I have a basic principle that I'm trying to follow politically, no matter what debate I'm taking, and no matter who I'm taking part in, and that's that I'm doing no other motive than what they're saying. And it's completely independent of the party. But I have respect for the fact that people can perceive the situation very differently, and I have expressed that in the past. I sincerely believe that the government has presented the facts in the matter. I'm not going to go any further, except to say the following – which does not bring out any of what I said in my first post: The whole thing has great imagination and the ability and will to ask a lot of questions. In this area, no questions were asked. I'm not adding anyone to the load. But in a number of areas, both large and small, questions are asked, so I think that someone and each of them can take it into consideration. I receive an infinity of questions about matters that may have less budgetary implications than this. I think that's all right, because it's the control function of the Storting and the way to control that is expressed. But I always intend to act completely open and direct. When I hear statements that form, I choose what I learned in my adult education, which I think Carl I. Hagen and I share, namely, to stick to the explanations of Luther's catechism about talking well about his next and taking everything in the best possible sense. It is a principle I intend to continue with in this case, and after this case. In the case of future budgetary proceedings, they take place in the Government and then they are dealt with in the Storting. It is then free for the Stortinget to ask the questions that the Stortinget feels it is right to ask, and to exercise the control and use the influence and decision-making capacity that you then have. With regard to the ageing of the budget, I understand why the representative Hagen reasoned as he did. It has, for example, have been very focused on the use of automatic traffic control. It's been committed to it. And there could be several sizes that cancel out when a budget is aged. But I've noticed that view, and I've noticed in general the points of view that one should be accurate, and one should act in such a way that people can take it in the best possible sense. But from the government side, we have, in my opinion, acted with an open visor, and we are going to do that in the continuation as well. And then how are the budgets treated? Yes, it is the government's right and duty to provide budgets for the Storting. Thereafter, the budget is dealt with by the Storting and by the large-scale groups who decide whether or not to approve the Government's budget. But as I said, I will not allow myself to be provoked by the tone of this debate beyond what I learned in my childhood about how to relate to the interpretation of Luther's catechism.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e872	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1718]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e884	The President notes that the Stortinget appears to be at the meeting and thus ready to go to voting in case No. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e923	During the debate, Mr Svendsen presented seven proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the removal of anti-competitive elements of laws, regulations and administrative provisions and free competition between bus and train.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that NSB AS sells Nettbuss AS in such a way that competition in the bus market is maintained.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to sue the Storting that NSB AS be listed and sold.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that NSB AS sells its shareholding in CargoNet AS.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of ownership of NSB AS from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry and Trade.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that buildings and properties giving NSB AS special advantages in a competitive situation are transferred from NSB AS to a separate independent management company or to the Railway Agency.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case in which one reviews the need for rail passenger transport on the most unprofitable routes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e986	It shall be put to the vote on the proposal in Document No. 8:39, from Carl I. Hagen, Kenneth Svendsen and Jan Arild Ellingsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I.The Government asks the Government to set the fines for traffic offences at 2004 level, adjusted only for normal price increases.II.The Government asks the Government to provide an assessment of the Norwegian level of fines for traffic offences in relation to the level of equivalent fines in comparable countries, as well as an assessment of the rates of fines for traffic offences compared to other criminal offences.III.The Government asks the Government to inform the Government appropriately in advance of significant changes in the rates of fines for traffic offences.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-03.ana.ud1791e1018	There is no record.
