ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e48	The representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e51	I will, on behalf of Marit Arnstad, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and myself, propose the appointment of an independent sample to go through the size and number of veterinary watch areas as well as the adaptation of the staffing of the areas as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e56	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e59	On behalf of Lena Jensen, Karin Andersen, Sigbjørn Molvik and myself, I propose that the education model school at work be integrated into the county education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e64	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Today, the Storting has an official visit to a delegation from the Federal Republic of Germany, led by the Federal Vice President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Dr. Norbert Lammert. It is a pleasure to welcome our friends from the Bundestag to Norway and to the Stortinget. [[Applause from the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e83	When the scandal surrounding the company The 5 Percent Community broke in the fall, it had approx. 70,000 Nordics lost about $1 billion. Pyramid games and pyramidal sales are not only a problem because so many people are at risk of being robbed of large amounts of money, but also because concepts like these are based on a particular cynical form of marketing, namely that as the pyramid expands, the participants themselves are recruiting new participants, and friends and family. This is how the pyramids are based on personal knowledge and trust, and so collapse will also be able to trigger a lot of bad blood. The concept that broke in the fall is one of several so-called network concepts that have developed in recent years, with clear features of pyramidal games. However, the provisions of the Lottery Act in this area are completely obsolete. Section 16 of the Law on So-called Chains of Happiness has not been up-to-date since the 1930s. The law states that creating or participating in pyramidal games is prohibited, but does not specify what a pyramidal game is. The so-called Alpha Club case in 2001 revealed the weaknesses of the law. If the company suspected of having a pyramid activity has only some kind of good or service to offer, it may act as a shell shelter for an establishment where the actual income comes from the acquisition of new members and other things related to pure participation in the pyramid. If you have some bottles of shampoo in stock, you can go free with today's laws, even though the business obviously has the hallmark of being pyramid-based. Lotterindende stated in his decision that the Alpha Club was not subject to the Lottery Act, Section 16, that it had not assessed and did not consider it its task to assess the content or value of the services offered by the company in return for the value of the membership fee. In the wake of the fall, focus has been placed on the government's handling of the pyramid law. Among other things, in response to Lotterenenda’s decision on Alpha Club, a working group was set up across several departments to look at the possibilities of making a more effective lawmaking. This process was well initiated and had retrieved input for the design of a new law from a number of different instances. Then the group's work was suddenly interrupted, without any final legislative proposals. The government has always explained this by the fact that an EU directive to regulate this area was underway. However, there is an explanation that is difficult to understand and that it is natural to have a debate around, and an assessment that has subsequently proved to be a serious mispractice. The EU directive on the road is a so-called total harmonisation directive. However, it should not be difficult for the Norwegian working group to have a close dialogue with the EU in this area, so that at an earlier date a law that we could adopt would not have to be substantially altered by the forthcoming EU directive. Norwegian legislative changes as a result of the EEA are unfortunately, I would say, become a routine, which is a good thing. It seems strange to leave Norway unprotected and without an effective law for several years pending an EU directive to follow. It is also clear that if Norway had passed a law that proved to be stricter than the EU directive, changing that law after a few years would have been a far less burden on our society than what has arisen and may arise because we have a outdated legislation that makes Norway a haven for pyramid builders. If the Government had chosen to continue working on new legislation, this could have been in place in time for example. to intervene in relation to the situation in The 5 Percent Community last year. So the government has been terribly passive in this matter. Not only has it not been adopted, but it has actively interrupted a process that could give our society a better defense against the fraud and deception that thousands of people have been subjected to. This inactivity has had a thin justification. While foreign Norway is sitting and waiting for the EU, Denmark has adopted stricter laws a few years ago. Last year Sweden set up a working group mandated to review Swedish legislation in this area and to present an assessment of it in December this year. This is not just SV that means. The Director of the Lottery Authority said the following to the Evening Post on 21 November last year: ‘It is high time that the Norwegian authorities continued this work on an independent basis.’ He criticised that the work of the working group had been interrupted. To P4 on 19 November last year, the Consumer Ombudsman said that the Government must take responsibility for the fact that 70,000 Norwegians have lost a total of DKK 1 billion on the pyramid game The 5 Percent Community. This criticism has largely met with excuses. One example was when the prime minister last autumn went out and assured that a new law was about to come, and that this work was under way in the government. This was how the government appeared for a moment as if it had started again the legal work that had been interrupted. It turned out, however, that this force of action was only a promise of rapid implementation of the forthcoming EU directive. Another exodus came from the Minister of Culture. In reply to questions from SV, she stated that she wanted to inculcate the Lottery Authority's responsibility to enforce the ban on pyramid games and to report crimes, despite the fact that everyone knew that the current legal text was not fit to enforce this, and that the Lottery Authority had repeatedly pointed this out. I see that the Minister of Culture repeats in the evening post today that the Lottery Authority will intensify its work in this area. Then there might be reason to recall that the director of the Lottery Authority last autumn, quoted on HegnarOnline on 26 November last, stated that the supervision has been told by the Ministry of Culture to downgrade these types of reviews. So here it's obvious that there's been conflicting messages from the department. The inaction of the Christian People's Party in the fight against pyramids is also striking. Especially in view of the fact that many in Christian environments have lost their lives on pyramids, one would believe that the Christian People’s Party was interested in bringing this to life. For the credibility of the Christian People's Party, it would also be important to show that the party does not dance after the pipe of the Christian environments that serve extensively in businesses that have been considered by many to be in the grey zone of the Law. It will therefore be useful if the Minister of Culture can now guarantee that this time there has been no interference by the Christian People's Party in the process of the same kind as that revealed at the time Nature's Own was investigated by the Ministry of Justice in 1998. Of course, not all network sales are problematic. But at the same time, it is obvious that the economic and personal consequences it has for too many people in the event of a pyramid collapse are so great that as a society, we cannot put the greatest emphasis on protecting those who sit on the top of different networks. We need a law that clearly defines what is an illegal pyramid game, and to give authorities a clearer mandate and better instruments to intervene against this type of activity. On this basis, both an explanation of the Government's inaction in this matter and a review of what is now being done to rectify this matter. At the same time, of course, it is important to look ahead and have a debate on what the forthcoming EU directive will say for Norwegian legislation and practice, and what we can expect from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e127	Norway is not a free port for pyramid games. Norwegian legislation against such games is similar to what most other countries have, including our Nordic neighbours. The representative Lightbaking tried to disguise this in his article. The representative does not shed light on this matter through his input. He has not seen the facts well enough and is therefore mistaken when he thinks the government has not taken the field seriously. One can read in Dagbladet that he claims that the Christian People's Party is flat on this matter because of Christian people and people in the Christian People's Party. When we read in the Daily, we can expect anything, but that he also refers to it from the Storting Speech, is almost injuring, as I interpret it. The government's work in the field has continued in the last year with a view to contributing to the best possible protection against such games within the EEA as a whole. Pure pyramid games, also called closing games or chain shops where no goods or services are traded except the right to recruit new participants, have long been prohibited by Norwegian law. Paragraph 16 of Lotterilova thus prohibits: ‘to create or participate in pyramidal games, happiness chains, chain shops or similar measures where money or other values are gradually traded within an indefinite circle of persons’. What characterises such illegal pyramid gambling organisations is that participants pay money into the organisation without getting a corresponding valuable item or service in return. The goal of the payment is to get more money out of the organisation later. The goal of starting the organization is to move up a pyramid-shaped network of participants, so that those at the top of the pyramid receive large amounts of money, even if the contributions from each participant may be relatively low. When there is no more room for participation in the pyramid, the stream of entries will be stopped. Then those who are at the top of the pyramid will be left with a lot of money, and those who come into the pyramid last lose money because they have not received any good or service or other dividends that make the payments profitable. The problem with companies such as The 5 Percent Community and Alpha Club are located on the border between legal pyramid-shaped salsa networks and illegal pyramid games. The participants pay money into the pyramid, but they also get something back in the form of goods or services, sales prices, soap products or the like. The problem with these borderline cases is to determine whether the goal of the organisations and participants is to develop a healthy business with real sales of goods and services, or whether the goal is to attract participants who pay their money with the hope of getting a big profit from future participants at the bottom of the pyramid. Although the pyramid games have been around since the mid-1990s, multi-level marketing as a distribution form has increased its expansion in the last two decades. Multi-level marketing, MLM, is also based on pyramid structure, but differs among others. from the pyramidal games by the fact that this activity also has the trade of goods or services. When there are sales of goods or services and not money contributions from new entrants that generate a gain, the system is not sentenced to collapse even if the growth of new participants is decreasing. Such activity may therefore be serious commercial activity which should be lawful, but may also be attempts to conceal activities which should be prohibited. In all countries, it has proved difficult to enforce a ban which requires an assessment of what is the primary element of a pyramid scheme: the acquisition or sale of a product. A holistic assessment is required, which has been shown to address several problems. In 2003, the government set up a working group of representatives from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Culture and the Church to address clearer boundaries between legal network games, MLM, and illegal pyramid games. While the group is working, in Brussels an EU directive was put forward prohibiting unfair commercial practices against consumers. Here it is proposed to blacklist, to ban those pyramid schemes where rejuvenation is the central one. The proposal for a directive is based on total harmonisation, i.e.: that each country cannot adopt rules with content other than that resulting from the Directive. I must also add that what the interpellant says is wrong, that we have not had any contact with the EU. Of course, through the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, we have submitted our proposals for that directive and have had contact with them. I would like to stress that the Norwegian working group went in to influence the proposal for a directive in order to put in place clear and effective pan-European rules. The Ministry of Children and Family, which is responsible for the proposal for a directive, drew up written observations on the proposal in the light of the work of the working group. On the basis of this, the EFTA Surveillance Authority issued a joint opinion in March 2004. The proposal for a directive is now before Parliament, and everything indicates that it will be adopted in March 2005. With such a common European rule, Nordics will have a common protection against such pyramids from all EEA countries. Such a harmonisation rule will also make it necessary to build on the content of the EU directive. The government believes that common rules in this field are the right way to go. Companies such as The 5 Percent Community are international and operate in a grey zone not only in relation to lotterilova but also in relation to marketing laws and economic criminal law. Such pyramid systems are often designed in a way that makes it very resource-demanding to investigate whether they are legal. This is a problem not only in Norway, but also in many other European countries. No country now seems to have found effective protection against such systems. The other Nordic countries have no stricter rules than us. It is clear from a report published in August 2000, by the Nordic Council of Ministers, that the Nordic countries largely regulate this equally and tirelessly with the same issues. The impression is also verified on a later stage. The claim 'Norway has become a haven for pyramid game' is therefore incorrect. Norway is in no way a retard in the pyramid struggle, and the government has not ignored the warnings that have come, that Norway has become a free haven for pyramid games. Norway, on the other hand, has been actively involved in influencing the proposal for a directive in order to put in place as clear and as strict effective pan-European rules as possible. With the work currently in progress, Norway will also be one of the first to implement the new legislation because we are working on bombs to make sure that implementation is speeded up when the EU comes. The government cannot accept responsibility for the loss of 70,000 Norwegians' money on the company The 5 Percent Community. The fact that this type of enterprise appeared to be particularly widespread in Norway may also have to be seen in connection with the fact that many in Norway in recent years have had a very good private economy with room for new types of investment. It is not appropriate to impose a general legal ban on the pyramid-shaped network hall of goods and services. Such network halls can often be an appropriate way of translating products. The challenge for legislators is to have regulators that allow network halls and at the same time prevent the emergence of pyramid-like organisations where backers can secure huge profits in such a way that many others suffer. However, whatever the legislation, each participant in a pyramid-like company must also have an independent responsibility to assess the seriousness of the companies in which he or she is able to invest his or her money. Work has been started in the two most relevant departments with a view to developing clearer rules for pyramid games in Norway. The aim is to implement the new EU rules in this field immediately after the decision of the European Parliament. The preliminary legal work has been started, and I hope that the matter can be brought before Stortinget in the spring session with the aim that a law can be passed before the summer. If the EU directive in this area will provide us with a better and stricter regulation, I cannot respond to it today, but I can promise that the Government's proposal for a national regulation will be as strict as the overall harmonisation of the EU directive allows us. In any case, it will be a great advantage to have common legislation for all European countries. I've previously said that most people should show scepticism to the many speculative network companies that are currently in the market. Based on recent developments, I have also strengthened the responsibility of our administrative body, the Lottery Authority, to ensure that the current ban on pyramidal games is observed, and that clear suspicions of crime are reported to the police. This is a matter where there is actually a great deal of agreement between the interpellant and the Government, and myself as the Council of State, and then I wonder about the language that the interpellant uses in a matter where we actually have a common goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e168	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I have to say that it is something special to be accused of being the closest intruder from the Parliament's pulpit, when the example I have drawn up is one that is well documented. It is not unnatural and cannot surprise the Council of State that questions are asked about the matter that has such a great resemblance to the process we have been in now. It is not unnatural that you then ask if any of the same may have happened this time. The question that the Council of State does not answer is whether it was necessary to interrupt this working group's work on a new pyramid law. Although this EU directive is on its way, we know that the normal implementation time for this type of directive is two years. This is a directive to be adopted, hopefully, in the European Parliament during the spring, which means that a normal implementation of the Directive for Norway will be by 2007. In other words, if a stricter regulation had been put in place in 2003 or 2004, we would have been able to implement the directive by means of a relatively simple legislative amendment process and amend Norwegian legislation after that, if it were consistent. If necessary, we could have had a stricter law until 2007 that would have given us good opportunities to intervene against some of the worst outcomes of this business. With regard to the term ‘free port’, I just want to repeat that it is not my words, but it is the word of the Consumer Ombudsman. It is also true that when we compare the Nordic laws, we see that the law that Denmark passed in 2000 is a law that does not do what the Norwegian law does. It goes into detail and describes what a pyramid game is, and gives some characteristics that allow the authorities to enforce the ban that we also have in Norway, but which is very difficult to enforce. This is precisely the lack of the kind of wording that is being used, for example. find it difficult to investigate and report cases where there is a suspicion of a breach of the Pyramid Law. Of course, on the SV side, we will support the rapid implementation of the directive that is coming. We are pleased that work is being done in the department to prepare for a rapid introduction of the new legislation, and we are looking forward to that matter coming to Stortinget. We will, of course, support the Government in making that process go as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e181	I must admit that I was horrified when I read the newspaper today. The same debts were repeated from Stortingets Speech. It's pretty strong, because it has nothing to do with the truth of this matter in relation to the commitment I've had when it comes to the fight against pyramids. So the question is whether this working group canceled their work, or what they did. We have been working on this since this working group was reduced. What we did when we heard that there was going to be an EU directive was that we started working to influence the EU directive. In this way, we got a slightly different focus in relation to how we thought it would be most effective to implement this directive in Norway. Thus, the job was then a time to be involved and influence in Brussels. But the working group has been there all along, and it is fully devoted. She is currently working and should also be able to enable the implementation to take place as quickly as possible. I have tried in my post to say what we have done, and then I hope that Stortinget and the interpellant can believe me on it. Ein still refers to Sweden and Denmark and the law there. In Denmark, for example is prohibited from pyramidal games regulated by a law of public collection administered by the Ministry of Justice there. Like Sweden and Norway, Denmark has also had problems with the emergence of pyramid games, and they have had the same problems as us with the definition. It is illegal to offer pyramid games in Denmark, as it is in Norway. The laws are pretty similar, and we have the same problems. In Sweden, there has been a drawing of a case. It has led to a verdict, but it's a little bit of amulsifier of a few dollars that's given, so it's only symbolic. That is why I hope when we get an EU directive that it can be more effective, so that the common objective that both the interpellant and I have can also be implemented in Norway. I'm happy for the exposure to the interpellant. He's raising a very important issue, and I think it's also important to dispel people from not being blue-eyed to go into these pyramids. But we don't have to have a law like this. prohibits those who so wish to keep the Tupperware company, that this shall be prohibited in Norway. That balance is difficult. That's why we really need a legal expertise and an effort to achieve a balance, so we can turn down what we don't want to have here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e192	It's an interesting theme that the representative Bjørlo Lyssbakken addresses in this interview. After the revelations around The 5 Percent Community, you can wonder that there are still some people who are fooled by this kind of fraud and banditting. Unfortunately, hundreds of thousands of Norwegians have invested money in pyramid-like companies, and many of them have lost large amounts. It is, of course, tempting to resort to legislation in such cases. But I think we also have to ask ourselves: do we have laws against pyramids, against fraud and against fraud in Norway, and can these not be used until further notice? Perhaps it is about people having to take greater responsibility for their own actions. It's actually that it's allowed to think for itself. We may have to focus more on this, whether we get the expected EU directive or not. I have noticed that both newspapers, magazines such as Your Money and the Lottery Authority have gone out with clear lists of which companies they are questioning. These are companies like Eurosmart, NordPortal, Owners Group International, Play Club, Prosper Club, Pure Investor, TrendGames, Upsides, WorldGames and www.worldwidealliance. Common to them are expensive memberships, games and casinos, as well as shares and suspicious financial services. Some of the companies have already come together, such as Alpha Club, Life Wealth 8, Sprinkle Network, The 5 Percent Community and TrendInvest. That being said, it should also be included, as the Council of State said, that there are multi-level marketing companies that operate in a fairly serious and good way. These include Herbalife, Lux Norway, Oriflame, Tupperware, etc. I don't want to recommend anyone to go into these companies. Like all other companies, these companies can also go bankrupt, even if they are not illegal or engage in fraud and gangster activities, such as those I mentioned earlier in my post. There are many of us who dream of being rich, probably some of us here on Stortinget, where we have a good salary. It's something that drives most people. But a wise man said something like that if something seems to be too good to be true, it's just that. I think that many of those who have joined these companies would have benefited from listening to such advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e207	The representative Lighthouse has taken up an important and very interesting interplay on a theme that unfortunately has not yet been illuminated enough. But first I'd like to say to the Council of State that calling an intervention for injurers has of course the Council of State opportunity to do, but this pulpit is actually a temptation for this kind of thing. Here you can actually injustify if you want to, because here you are protected by Norwegian law. If it's wise to call an article intruders, I'm more uncertain about it. The context here was quite obvious, and it's natural to ask, since the previous case was stopped by an enquiry to the ministry. This is also well documented. Asking questions about this again is, of course, wise. Of course, it's also an opportunity for the Council of State to say that she doesn't think it was an equally wise question. In September 2003, a Whitewashing Communication came to Økokrim from Nordea, which had received 160 million. NOK in an account, which was uncertain about what they were going to do. They sent a money laundering message to Ecokrim because they thought it was right to do so. About the same time, a Norwegian financial magazine had published the whole story around The 5 Percent Community and called those who invested their money in this, for idiots, so much of this was known. Why Ecokrim did not proceed with the matter, I will not speculate, but just refer to what is in the press. But I think one reason why Ecokrim is cautious about going into this is that the law was too bad. The point is that it is difficult for Ecocrime to know what is criminal activity, and what is not criminal activity. One year later, charges were brought against the men behind The 5 Percent Community. In reality, this could have been done a whole year earlier when the Whitewashing Communication came to Ecocrime. But you chose not to do that, probably because you were unsure whether you went into a legal frontier and grey zone where there was not a good enough law, although it was quite obvious that if this was not a criminal activity, it was close to criminal activity at the time the money laundering message was delivered. What we need now is a law that protects the ordinary citizen from his own stupidity. It's allowed in Norway to be an idiot. It is allowed to invest their money in things that can be tapped. That's absolutely right. But the law we have is to protect the ordinary citizen from his own stupidity and from criminal activity, which we have seen in this case. That's why we have to put in place a law that's strict enough to ensure that cynical speculators and backers can't make any profit on this. We have now had a long period of time when such a law has been lacking. We have recorded that the law has been along the way, but has been stopped. We have recorded that the EU has a work going on. I must say that I am pleased that the Council of State now confirms that there will be a law to Stortinget before the summer. We've been asking for that for a long time. There are too many cynical speculators who are able to trick naive Norwegians into investing their money in things they should not have invested their money in. The fact that you should generally use your own head when you invest is, of course, a general good rule, but the law must also be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e224	The President understands what Øystein Djupedal means, but he likes very badly the terms 'idiot' and 'idiot'.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e227	It's an important theme the interpellanter addresses. We don't currently have a legal code that cleanly draws up the boundaries between legal networking on one side and unfortunate pyramid-like network hall on the other. In other words, an outdated legislation in this area has made it possible to practice a form of turbocapitalism that we in the Christian People's Party distance ourselves from. Our government took hold of this already in 2003. It's great, and it shows that the government saw the challenge and showed the ability and the will to act long before the scandals started rolling up. The Council of State has today confirmed that the Government considers it very important that international common rules be built in order to prevent the players in this unworthy game from finding free ports. I'm sure that the interpellant's main idea with the interpellation is to bring the pyramid-like network hall to life. That at the same time, he uses the power, as the representative of an opposition party, to try a couple of plots to the Government, is not so unnatural. I hope, however, that the main focus will be on enabling us to build a wall through a constructive interaction that prevents those who are cynical enough to do so from making themselves rich by tricking others. I'm in a hurry. The Christian People's Party sees it so that a law and regulation in this area must first show that this is an activity that we don't want. Secondly, there must be time-limits and efficiency in relation to the specific challenges, and thirdly, there must be international harmonisation to prevent the build-up of free ports at some point. The Christian People's Party will not sit quietly and watch someone make money by fooling others. We are therefore pleased that the Council of State confirms that it is busy with a good solution as quickly as possible. In Stortinget, the Christian People's Party will contribute constructively to an effective and emerging regulatory framework that clearly draws the boundary between the legal network hall and unfortunate pyramid-like species.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e242	I think it is positive that SV addresses the matter of unclear legislation in this area as well. The station party fully supports SV's requirements. I think it is alarming that the Council of State rejects all criticism, as she actually does. The scam is a fact, and it's not enough to ask people to take care of themselves. We need a better regulation, and I think the Storting agrees. Ordinary people should have good protection against being cheated as has happened in this case. Our executives must get good tools to intervene and to severely punish. However, it is not a good regulation. Capacity is needed for those who are required to check compliance with the rules. Ecocrim knew a lot about the T5PC at an early stage, but they reacted little. I think it's about lack of capacity. They have too many things in relation to the manning they have. All too often, it is the media that discovers a relationship and is speeding up research or work on new legislation. We have many examples in recent years of small shareholders and small creditors being cheated: Finance Credit, SponsorService, Aker Brygge Invest and Bach's loan pyramid are recent examples. For a long time, the Centre Party has called for the establishment of stock supervision to ensure better for small shareholders and small creditors against the financial elite and fraudsters, a stock supervision similar to that of Sweden, Denmark and the United States, which can be set up so that it can be a consumer protection institution. Such supervision shall include, inter alia: ensure that all actors are simultaneously provided with equal and true information in the establishment of an AS and in the case of capital extensions. Many of the fraudsters' gains in the matter we are talking about have just been taken out through empty AS or AS that have been emptied, using different techniques. Such stock supervision could reveal and give warnings about the T5PC fraud over a year ago. The credit supervision can today provide warnings against lucrative financial corporations, but not against other individual companies. Unfortunately, SV has not supported the initiative of the Centre Party in the matter of obtaining a share control. On the last occasion, a year ago, we received support only from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. State Council Dørum promised in March 2003 that the Government would clarify its view of such a new consumer protection control body during 2003. It has not yet happened. But the centre party is going to follow up this case and hopes that the latest fraud cases can contribute to the majority and rapid establishment of such a new supervisory body.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e254	It's been a useful debate, I think, and we've been told some things about the process that's coming. I think there is reason to expect that there will be broad consensus in the Storting on this, and if the process in the European Parliament goes as we are suggested, it would be possible to put in place a better piece of legislation before the summer. It'll be positive, and it's positive that we can stand together about it. Then, like the representative of the Central Party, I register that the Government is still not willing to take self-criticism for the process that has been. We'll just have to take that with us. But I still want to state that there is a reason to go through the process that has been, that it would have been possible to make a stricter law, that it would have been an advantage to have it in place, and also that it is actually such that there are some significant differences between the laws of the Nordic countries. The Danish law goes beyond the Norwegian in terms of defining what a pyramid game is, while the Norwegian Lottery Act only states that pyramid games are prohibited, making it difficult to investigate, report and get convicted actors in these types of businesses. However, what the Council of State points to, and, of course, is that no matter how good legislation you have, it is difficult to stop this type of activity, which is adaptable. In this sense, it is undoubtedly an advantage to have legislation that will apply in many countries and that gives us reason to hope that it will be possible to bring this type of activity to life more fully in the years to come. Then, of course, a new law also needs to be followed up with resources to enforce this legislation and to go further on the research side in identifying this type of activity, which many claim are, at least, extensive in Norway today. It will be necessary to strengthen both the competence and the resource situation of the bodies to enforce this. It will be important for the Storting to have the opportunity to also discuss it and to strengthen it, in parallel with the adoption of a stricter law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e265	I would like to thank the inter-pellant and the others who have spoken in this debate. It has been a useful debate, and it is useful to keep the debate alive, so that we also keep the people awake with regard to the issues. I'd like to remind you that in the department we have a guide job when it's banned in lotterilova, but the department doesn't have to decide what's legal and what's not legal. It's the police and prosecution authority that's supposed to do it. That's one of the reasons we've asked the Lottery Authority to report more, so we can try this out. Then one refers to Denmark. Denmark has a slightly different law, but with the ban as we have in Norway. In practice, Denmark still faces exactly the same challenges as we do. The challenges ahead are going to be big, even with a new law, because there is a balance sheet here. When we know that some of these companies have spent millions of dollars getting lawyers or lawyers to find formulations that keep them within the law, we see that even if we get a new piece of legislation and implement the EU law, there will be no Sunday school here in Norway. We need to have a watchful look at this, and we need to inspire people to stay away from it, and do everything we can to prevent it. At least I'll promise the interpellant that I'll keep a high pressure, and we'll do what we can to get this implemented as soon as possible. I think that if we had done something before, we wouldn't have had that traveler a will. We also saw that when we were in contact with the Nordic countries, that we needed more time on this, and we needed a common European law, also because very many of these companies operate not only in Norway, but internationally. Since I was a little strict, or maybe angry, towards the interpellant to start with, I would like to end by thanking you for your interest. I hope we can have a good cooperation in order to get the best possible law here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e278	Then it ended well at last! The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e293	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e308	During the previous examination of the notification of appointments, the Committee called for information on the evolution of the number of applicants, gender and age groups and the background of applicants. It is good to know that this time the message contains such information. However, it is less satisfactory that far more men are still appointed than women in senior positions in the country. In the period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004, we have actually experienced a decline compared to the previous year, from 31 pst. until 26 pst. women. The increase in the number of female applicants during the same period may be an indicator that female applicants are not given priority in recruitment. Still, there's no way it's completely black. A number of departments show willingness to ensure gender balance. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs have, for example: during the last five-year period, more women than men have been appointed, while eight others have nearly the same number from each sex. But there's still black sheep. The Ministry of Defence is in a special class in terms of female deficit, and does not seem to have taken the signals from the Stortinget inwards. The Committee shall share one point. The majority of the Committee, which is the Workers’ Party and the SV, indicate that gender balance is an important objective, both in the private and public sectors, and calls for the Government’s willingness to use the right of appointment to achieve this important objective. The other members of the Committee have their own specific comments, which I assume they will explain. We in the Workers' Party are concerned that gender inequalities in appointment should also be balanced. We will actively contribute to the fact that when we return to the government offices - not if, but when we return to the government offices - we will work more actively with this. Otherwise, an overall committee comments on all those who do not want their names published in the candidate lists and assumes that this issue will be given special consideration in the context of the work of a new public law.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e321	As the rapporteur has just explained, there are two points on which the Committee has been particularly concerned or has comments. It is for the first time the proportion of women in senior positions in the country, and it is this with publicity about the candidate lists of positions. From our point of view, it is alarming that far more men are still appointed than women in senior positions in the state. As the rapporteur explained, in fact, the proportion of women has fallen in the period we have now seen - despite the fact that there were more women applicants in 2003-2004 than in the past. We know that women in Norway have both a right-hand participation and a right-hand level of education than in most other countries. So it wasn't supposed to be a lack of qualifications, it was supposed to be a belief. We often hear that the explanation is that women do not apply for leadership positions. It does not make sense when we see that there are now more applicants for leadership jobs than there have been in the past among women. The government simply has an explanation problem when you know that the goal is 40 pst. women in senior management positions by 2006. I see that it is not the Minister of Modernisation sitting here, but I will nevertheless challenge the Council of State to defend the Government here, to look at how this goal is to be achieved. Is the Council satisfied with the patience signalled by the government parties in the Committee? The work on equality must be done at the right of the Government. It becomes too puzzled if one settles for one to go in the right direction, for that is what the representative Ola T. Lånke said in an interpellation debate last year: ‘The Member States are, whether they will or not, an exhibition window for the rest of society, including in relation to equality. Therefore, it has a special responsibility for providing leadership positions to women and minority groups. The State must go ahead and show its way.’ Just this quote from Ola T. Loan made me look at the minority place in the office. Therefore, my request is that the next time you return with a notice of appointment, you should also be informed about how things are going in that area. The second theme covered by the Committee is the publication of candidate lists. When the Stortinge dealt with the public disclosure law in the previous period, the majority of the population, all except SV and Left, gave the administration the right to exclude information about applicants if requested by the applicants. The Civil Ombudsman claims that, based on the information available to him, the administrative authorities operate the provisions in a more public-restrictive manner than appears to be the opinion of the legislator. It has to be cleaned up. The SV's view has been that candidate lists in addition cases should be public, both in the interests of equality and in order to achieve the attainment of qualified women by the addition of managerial posts, but also in order to avoid additions on a political basis or other non-transparent basis. There's no reason to believe that the "gut club okay" culture doesn't exist, at least a vandal of it - in the state. Therefore, we believe that it should be a leading commodity attitude. There shall be full publicity around the candidate lists in addition cases. This was our opinion when the Public Relations Act was discussed, and it is an attitude that we will take with us when the new Public Relations Act comes up in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e341	I am pleased that the rapporteur initially said that this message reflects in a better way the whole of the appointment, gender balance and other issues related to the appointment of office than previous messages. We're going to take note of that, and then we're going to try to help keep that trend going on. There is no doubt that the Government has a great deal of pressure on this with a better gender balance in terms of both appointments to executive positions and appointments to directors and selections. This pressure that the Government has is not only a pressure against the parts of government and the appointments for which the Government as such has a responsibility, but against the whole of society. It is a matter of private enterprise governance, and it is a matter of enterprises in which the State has a significant holding and a high degree of influence. At the same time, we must recognise that we have not come far enough to achieve gender balance in leadership positions in the overall society. Also in political assemblies, of which we are part, we see that we have a way to go. From the Government's side, you're holding onto the ambition of 40 pst. by appointment. The government as such maintains that ambition, and each state council in its respective departments has pressed pressure. I represent a sector in my department that has been perceived in many ways as, and that is, man-dominated, but we see that when the will is present to put a pressure, it is possible to find qualified women - of course! But it has something to do with attitudes, and it has something to do with culture. Therefore, it is so important that both magnification and government keep this tab high. I feel like we do that, while we get to be humble because we have a way to go. That is why I am satisfied with the position and I can see that in this way there is no difference between the ambitions and the objectives of the Government and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e354	I think it is only right to draw attention to the fact that the Group of the Progressive Party does not share the views of the majority and that the Council of State has now repeated. We agree with the Council of State that, in terms of gender distribution, the attitude and culture that is essential and that we should appear to be crucial. How a society evolves should not always come from a guardianship on top that wants to push its views downwards on society. We think it's a good part of a democratic society, in a civilised society and in a cultural society that evolves in the broad community of the people, regardless of exactly what the ruling desires. That's exactly what has been one of the divisions between socialist, political attitudes and what we can call bourgeois, non-socialist attitudes. Developments shall be more self-contained, how they stand in the population, in the organisational life, in enterprises, etc. The sociologists have always had a desire for guardianship and control over people and control over relationships. This has been reserved for the socialists. I can only see that at the moment there is no difference between a so-called non-socialist government - I see the Prime Minister claiming this - and a socialist government. The desire to push down society, business life, organisations and everyone else is similar in their own views about using laws and regulations to get a different balance between the different genders in different positions. So it's a thought that we're in disagreement with. We believe that this should be managed from below, based on volunteering and based on the fact that companies and others themselves do what they think is reasonable for the purposes of the company or organisation. So I reserve myself and the Group of the Party of Advancement from the thinking that all the other parties here stand for, and, unfortunately, the non-socialist government, as it claims to be, obviously also stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e363	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e378	As spokesman, I would like to refer to Document No. 3:13 for 2003–04, the National Audit Office’s investigation into the management of fish resources. The purpose of this study was to assess whether the management of fish resources is consistent with the objective of securing framework conditions for a resilient and profitable fishing industry. Initially, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Fisheries' budget is relatively small, but the industry has a lot to say for the country financially. Fish and fish products are Norway's main export product for oil and gas. The fishing industry gives us good incomes and incentives for activity and coastal settlement. An important challenge for nutrition is to reduce fluctuations in the different fish stocks and to achieve long-term and sustainable management. If, in the future, the fishing industry is also to help secure stable settlements and jobs in coastal communities, the profitability must be satisfactory at all stages of the industry. Resilient resource management is necessary to achieve this; quotas and other regulation rules must also be designed in accordance with such a objective. The fisheries sector is a very important management area. That is why we have an important debate today. The Court of Auditors has made some limitations. The starting point is the six most commercially important stocks, in addition to the total resource outsourcing made when determining total allowances, because this is considered decisive for the development of the stock. This can give an incomplete image of an increasingly complex administration. It is essential that expressions and definitions are tidy, so that there is minimal variation in understanding and use of the terms fisheries management, resource management and stock management. It is unfortunate that a value-creating perspective does not focus more on the land-based part of industry. The same understanding is crucial. A leading commodity-approaching in the administration is important. This approach is not aimed at unimplemented natural fluctuations, but at uncertainty in stock estimates and forecasts. The management has only a direct impact on the stock through regulation and control of fishing - and a certain, but uncontrolled, indirect impact of the other factors managed by something uncontrolled in nature. It is important to clarify that the indications from the marine scientists are based on different and over time varying regulations when it comes to setting quotas and the principle of yielding power. There may be differences in the set of quotas relative to the indications and yet be fully biological and administratively justified. This shows some of the complexity of the problem of fisheries management. Such an example is the expression "outside safe biological limits". This expression can easily be perceived as errors: the file is in biological danger or is not exterminated. The Christian People's Party indicates that the extraction of some stocks, according to history and statistics, has gone beyond a long-term resilient level. This is serious, as the annual population withdrawal should not exceed the growth rate, as this over time weakens the population. This is not a situation, but a complicated picture from real life. We see it as very positive that ICES has, among other things. after recording from Norway, change the expression to ‘the level of the gyth disease has a risk of reduced reproductive capacity’. I think this expression will give a more nuanced and correct explanation of the gypsum situation. In spite of all the limitations, the study is a useful review, which provides relevant assessments of key issues related to the management of fish resources. The report should therefore be an important tool for future management. In resource management, a resilient resource take-off shall be provided. This is a tool to achieve other objectives of fisheries management. I would like to refer to the four main problems that have been addressed in the study: whether the resource management is consistent with the objective of securing sustainable fish stocks and high sustainable yields from resources in terms of the degree to which the management of its use of the resource takes care of the objectives of a profitable, geographically distributed and varied fishing fleet, the extent to which the control activities of the management authorities contribute to the objective of a more efficient resource management how the ministry has complied with its requirement to set objectives and performance requirements and to obtain reports on the results and effects achieved, in relation to the activities of resource management, resource allocation and control; Fish stocks represent important national and international natural resources, which Norway also has a responsibility to manage in the best possible way. Resilient resource management is both an international obligation and an essential requirement for a profitable fishing industry. Binding international cooperation is crucial for the ability to manage resources efficiently and to keep control of the total fish yield. It is important that scientific advice is strongly prioritised, regardless of whether it relates to a stock we manage alone or to a stock we manage in consultation with other countries. As the spokesman for the case, I am pleased that the Committee's plurality, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, sees it as very important that recommendations from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, be emphasised in quota determinations. I would like to stress that the exchange of experience and findings between industry and the research community should be usefully strengthened. It is important to stress that there is a great deal of impact on the viability of a population. Whether Norway manages a population independently or in consultation with other countries is such a relationship. How different files affect each other will be a different ratio. In this context, these members felt it important to show the ministry their work to achieve an ecosystem-based management of our marine resources. The management of fish resources must have an increased sustainability perspective, which includes both biological, economic and social objectives. This is in line with the target of the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development in 2002, that ecosystem-based fisheries management should be implemented by 2010. Ecosystem-based management will consider how different populations affect each other. The population also plays a particularly important role in this area. The Committee would also like to point out another work that looks at different conditions and framework conditions for fisheries and the value and potential for development of marine industries when it comes to increasing value creation and coastal settlement, i.e. the warning of coastal reporting - the big news of marine economic development. The Committee points out that the aim has been to reduce fishing fleet capacity for many years. The investigation shows that the capacity has increased. Despite the introduction of quotas to reduce catches, the fleet owners have chosen to increase their fishing capacity. The Christian People's Party will therefore point to the technological developments that have taken place in this industry on the same line with many other industries. What is important to concreteise is that increased technical capacity is often linked to increased tonnage. The reason for the increase in tonnage is that the facilities on board have been better and better. At the same time, the boats are often decorated in a way that gives more space and space, so that it is more comfortable and convenient for the crew. In addition, the so-called ‘fish waste’ is being preserved today. This also requires space. This has been better, thanks to technological developments, leading to a reduction in much of the heavy physical work. We assume that there have been more jobs than in previous times, thus showing that increasing technical capacity is not only worse. The regulatory framework is designed to ensure that fishermen must be economic rational operators who build the vessel according to their potential for ignition. Several fisheries have been used for many years to build up a sustainable management of resources. This leads to a better overview of resources, and the resource base and the allowance are more conservative in relation to the investment. In addition, the distribution between the coast and the sea is fixed, which is built up under the prevailing conditions for fishermen. The Christian People's Party is familiar with the structure of the industry, with small units. It is an objective to maintain and facilitate a varied structure in the fishing industry. The relative distribution has remained stable. Different instruments shall achieve the objective of geographical distribution along the coast. The Committee points out that the Ministry does not recognise too little documentation in its work on resource control, but states that this has been a conscious priority on their part from the point of view of the resources available. While the department itself believes that the administration has, overall, had a smooth and rapid follow-up and management system, the Committee suggested that work on better routines and more documentation in resource control work be prioritised, so that a more easily traceable return to the system. The Committee considers that the Riksrevision's investigation is largely concerned with the different themes as a matter of its own, but in reality there is a close link between them. The complexity of fisheries management tasks and challenges has increased considerably in recent years. The key to realising the industry's value creation potential - while at the same time helping to create a sensible and efficient resource management, a simpler regulatory framework and, through this, good control - is in the first row in reducing capacity. Finally, the Storting expects the Riksrevision to work independently and as a competent organisation, and to act with caution and objectivity. I experience it so that the Riksrevision fills the measurements that are set for the work. One must be able to conclude that the Riksrevision has a very high level of expertise. It is a wish that the Storing should be able to take greater advantage of this knowledge than it is today. I would therefore like to refer to what was said in the Stortinget on Tuesday 23 November 2004 in connection with the decision of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the report of the National Audit Office on the operation in 2003. I think that the Riksrevision in its management reports should focus more on the impact of decision-making on the inhabitants. This management report is a good example of getting more knowledge of the fisheries policy. This case has given it. The Committee therefore sees the benefit of a revision of the management of fish resources. This report provides important lessons both for the administration, the Storting and the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e443	I am not going to call myself a fishing expert, but: the objectives of Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture policy are ambitious. In addition to the profitable and sustainable use of resources, there is a broad political consensus that fisheries policy should contribute to ensuring coastal jobs and settlements. The working party is committed to managing fishing resources with a view to maximising long-term resource withdrawals within sustainable frameworks and ensuring the most stable withdrawal from year to year. The Workers' Party will maintain a differentiated fleet and oppose the privatisation of marine resources. Without this being the occasion for the big and wide debate on fisheries policy, which I think it would be right for the nutrition committee to prepare to its fullest extent, I would nevertheless like to quote from yesterday's newspaper. The manager there had the title ‘On the wrong course’ and comments on the Bondevik government’s desire to give permanent fishing quotas to an exclusive selection of Norwegian fishermen. The journal writes: ‘The country-wide premise of a small Norwegian fishing elite has a value of several tens of billion kronor, converted into catch value. And the quotas can be traded. The Minister for Fisheries rejects the fact that he makes national fishing allowances for private property. Similarly, Ludvigsen is the last in this country to deny that fishing quotas, the right to fish, can be bought and sold. Him about it. We note that in the fisheries policy too Bondevik & Co. to make the rich rich even richer." So far the newspaper. This I expect will be a topic in the nutrition committee for a further follow-up. After all, we are now examining the report from the Riksrevision. As the rapporteur explained, the Riksrevision study has been based on issues relating to the management of fisheries resources in relation to the objective of ensuring sustainable fish stocks, the profitability and geographical distribution of the fishing fleet, the control activities of the authorities and the follow-up to the Financial Regulation’s assumptions on objectives and performance requirements. I think it is positive when the National Audit Office's investigation confirms that the Norwegian administration has largely followed up the UN Convention provisions on developing and participating in international administrative regimes. When it comes to capacity reduction and resource allocation issues, very difficult choices are being made. There has long been an explicit objective to reduce the capacity of the fishing fleet, while the study by the Riksrevision shows that, on the contrary, the capacity has increased, which was also covered by the case-rapporteur. This should lead to a systematic review of how the measures taken to reduce the fleet have worked, combined with analyses and regulations and regulations. With regard to the structure of the fishing fleet, the relative distribution between the sea fishing fleet and the coastal fleet appears to have remained stable, but so that the vessels in both groups have increased. It is therefore important for the Government to follow closely and ensure that the rural policy objectives set by the Storting are followed up. I'm not going to go into all of the issues that are commented on in our comments on the matter, but just refer to these. In the field of ethos management, I consider it important to stress the importance of prioritising the development of clear performance indicators, so that it is possible to assess whether the activities meet the expected objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e467	I am very pleased that the Stortinget now has the opportunity to discuss thoroughly the Riksrevision's study on the management of fishing resources, particularly for two reasons: firstly, it can provide a basis for putting into place in Norway an even better management of our fishing resources, on which the case-rapporteur has been so thoroughly involved. And secondly, I believe that this report, in addition to the fact that the matter has received a thorough consideration in the committee, and now in a debate in the Stortinget, can actually be of great help to the Council of State in its negotiating and distribution work in relation to fishing resources that we actually share with other countries. I understand that today's debate can provide room for input from many different points of view, that most aspects of Norwegian fisheries policy can be discussed. I am not sure if Dagbladet's lead writer has any kind of special authority to advise Norwegian policy, nor in this area. But I think we're wise to take the advice and the leadership that the Riksrevision gives in this area. Let me just say that in the last few years there have been no political counter-representations at all by the Storting in terms of the extraction of resources that have taken place. There has also been no widespread discussion of the allocation of resources that have been decided upon. Therefore, as the report shows, it is also gratifying that the stock situation actually looks pretty good. It also contributes to increasing the profitability of the Norwegian fishing industry. We see that several important populations are growing, even though the extraction has been larger than intended. That is what we see for shudder, and we see it for the Norwegian-Arctic cod stock. I believe that what must be one of the main pillars of management and fisheries policy in terms of industry is that, as far as possible, we are trying to ensure the industry a kind of stability within the concept of sustainability, which I have the impression that all parties in the Storting are followers of. There is, of course, a hairy balance at all times in the discussion of withdrawals and distribution. And in some cases, we have sufficient experience, negative experience, in fixing the ecological boundaries. It's documented -- and it'll again be documented, if we do it again -- that we don't get over nature, but we're given the opportunity to play along with nature. We've seen that in those cases where we haven't played with nature, things have gone wrong. If we go back to 1990, we saw what dramatic effects it had on Norwegian fishing industry and housing that one did not listen to advice from experts, did not listen to advice from research teams, etc., etc. Of course, Norwegian administration and fisheries policy are full of controversy, noise and disagreement. We have seen it in the discussion on structural adjustment, capacity reduction. I record with interest, and in part also a little surprise, that one finds that perhaps not far enough has been achieved. I don't know what kind of drag help Stortinget has given the department and management system at all when it comes to the job of building up capacity. For just overcapacity at fishing level, the greatest threat to stocks is, in addition to the fact that there is also a major, major threat to the economic situation in fisheries. We also need to be aware that when we are to distribute, we almost without exception share resources with other countries -- that's exception, but basically we do it -- and we have to negotiate for solutions. Also in this area, I think there's every reason to point out that things are going better. Especially in the northeast, in our relationship with Russia, we see that despite a series of setbacks, we have managed to get a better and better management system. I think we should be happy about that. I believe that today's debate and the vote by the Control Committee will also be a support to the Council of State when quotas are to be allocated and negotiated. I believe the Council of State for every reason can feel secure that when it comes to the job of holding back and resisting the pressure, he has solid support in the Norwegian big business. I think that's a good thing to bring in the many hard and difficult rounds of management and distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e486	I'm not going to repeat so many of the points the case spokesperson made in his post, but focus on two things that we from SV's side thought it was worth focusing on in this matter. In order for an administrative audit to be useful, one must be an approximation of what we can learn from what the audit finds. I want to focus on two aspects: the single liability of setting total quotas, and the other relates to capacity reduction measures, where the audit has shown some findings that I think it is worth learning from the Storting. On the fishing side, an administrative audit is important because there is so much power in the administration. It is true that the Storting penalises part of the agency, that it is the Storting that decides, or that it should be adopted, which action to take. On the fishing side, however, it is also the case that the department and its agencies have a number of powers which, in consequence, have a quite dramatic impact on fisheries policy. The size depends on the formulation of objectives and penalties for possible instruments, insofar as the size finding it necessary and the department comes to the Stortinget and asks for them. However, it is clear that the type of decisions that apply to allocations between the different fleet groups and the type of decisions that apply to negotiations with other countries on quotas and the fixing of total quotas have little impact on the size of the stock, in addition to setting targets. And a revision that examines the relationship between goals and means of action must then be essential for the Storting to learn from. After listening to the last speech, I must admit that I wonder if the will is present to a sufficient degree to take inward learning from findings. Let me start with what goes on total quotas. The national audit points to what we all know, that the quota for a number of important species, such as cod, haze and say, has been seen to be much higher and, in part, significantly higher than the biological recommendations of researchers. This has also been pointed out several times by the Business Committee. The last speaker, Ivar Kristiansen, has our case-speakers for the cases in which the Stortinget has taken note of how much quota one has set, and where we have at times come up with quite clear advice to the ministry in relation to the way forward and prioritisation and reconstruction of stocks and that kind of thing. One said quite explicitly from Stortinget's page that a should base the precautionary principle. The committee does not say that because we do not understand that it is difficult to negotiate quotas with other countries. We say it because it is wise to follow the precautionary principle. It makes sense biologically, and not least economically. Adherence to the precautionary principle results in the maximum long-term yield of the resource. That's why it's wise, in addition to being an international obligation. We don't really have a choice. Despite this, the Riksrevision clearly points out that, in part, quotas have been set considerably higher than what has been biologically recommended. In other words, there has been no agreement between goals, advice from the Storing and the practices that have been carried out. I think it's a point that one has found it necessary to say that there is little evidence from the negotiation protocols of the kind of balances that have been made between ecological, economic and social considerations. This is only mentioned in the report, and no no normative advice is given by the Riksrevision, but this is a significant point. For this, the fisheries management is, and this is, fisheries negotiations with other countries: they are very closed. Stortinget does not know Norwegian requirements. The shot does not know the time during the negotiation. Because the Storting doesn't know it, the public doesn't necessarily know it either. We know the protocols. We get a big message for treatment every year. The message is qualitatively improved as one sees the final quotas in relation to the actual guesses. But we get nothing compared to what's politically interesting, what kind of aberrations you've done when you've negotiated, and when you've finally fixed quotas. And of course we can say that it's the ones we've been negotiating with, their fault that the ratio was getting so high. It is a discussion in which it is impossible for anyone other than those who have been in the negotiations to participate, for no one other than those who have been in the negotiations knows what has actually happened. One should be aware that this is also about quotas that we unilaterally set from the Norwegian side. So it does not only apply to quotas that we are negotiating with other countries. I also found it interesting when the Department comments that, in relation to resource management, one of the audit’s aspects should have greater consideration for taxing patterns. I agree with the Department of Taxation. Of course, the tax pattern is very important and central to what is going on in resource management. In spite of the fact that this is an audit debate, I just have to say in a small sentence that if one is so busy with the taxing pattern in the ministry, one should perhaps have changed its structural policy accordingly, in line with the advice that you yourself have given to the Riksrevision. So let me go over to what's going on capacity reduction. It has therefore been a political objective for 80 years to reduce the number of fishing vessels in this country. We've talked about boats, we've talked about fishermen, and then we've said that there are too many boats, there are too many fishermen, we have to get rid of some of them. I'm going to go into the discussion of how wise and sensible it is, because it's really not part of this debate, it's home in other debates. I would just like to point out that, one ten years ago, discussed capacity, there was a significant difference between the fishing capacity and the needs of the vessel. A counted not only tons, a measured not only load volume, a counted not only boats, a counted not only fishermen, but one was aware that there is an equal aspect of what goes on capacity: how much need fleets have for raw materials to get the wheels to walk around. The National Audit Office points out that there is reason to ask questions in terms of efficiency in relation to the capacity reduction objective. It seemed that the means of reducing the number of vessels and delimiting the development of vessels have not been sufficient or practiced in such a way as to achieve the target of reduced capacity. Findna may indicate that the Ministry of Fisheries has placed too much emphasis on the number of vessels in order to reduce capacity rather than other capacity factors. Let me just say that the department has put too much emphasis on it, as far as is good enough in an administrative audit. But this is a tool that is sanctioned by the Storting, where the Storting must be allowed to take its share of the responsibility for one having a one-sided focus on counting fishing boats, rather than other capacity factors. The National Audit also points out that a non-analyses or impact assessments have not been made in relation to how these tools actually turn out, if they help to reduce capacity. We now know that they don't. The technical capacity is greatly increasing during the period we have had as a policy objective to reduce capacity. And that is in the period in which the political plurality has adopted such instruments as the unitary quota scheme in the marine fleet and the structural quota system in the coastal fleet to reduce capacity. It is clear that it is interesting in the management context that an indicator that here has no analysis on the basis of which to know the means to actually use them is a good idea to achieve the objectives that you want to achieve. Here's the most politically interesting thing about the Storting is willing to take the lesson that maybe one should investigate and take inwards about the means of working as a well, helping to achieve the goals. When there is a unit quota, a structural quota, a quota turnover, and you take a vessel permanently out of the fishery, the problem is that it is the one selling quotas, who takes the rent from the industry, while the person buying quotas is getting the debt burden. It must necessarily contribute to the reduction of profitability. When you appreciate an intellectual property right, the right to fish, it must necessarily increase the burden of debt, and it must necessarily reduce the profitability of fishing. Then you can refer to the ring-fleet, which has good profitability. But they have structured themselves for a quite different time and with quite different quota prices than what is now to stimulate the other part of the fishing fleet to do even more, by taking out freeze trawlers and transferring the right to the factory fleet. Then you have to have a tongue in your mouth and be honest enough to see if it works in relation to your goals. The National Audit Office points out that one can ask questions about whether one has a one-sided focus on counting vessels instead of looking at other types of capacity. Is it so that the capacity increases due to the fact that a set of a price on the right to fish, and because of this one increases the pitching demand to such an extent that each fish makes adjustments that can or should be individually profitable for him, but that are not profitable for the fleet as a whole? The question is open. The answers we get in other debates - even if one has already gone a long way in prescribing them here. In such debates, one should look at this: whether there is a mismatch between objectives and means of action, should we change the means of action, or should we reword the objectives? There is no political will to redefine the fisheries policy objectives. Fisheries policy shall continue to contribute to the establishment, employment, profitability and viability of fisheries. It's all the political parties some about -- there's no willingness to rephrase these goals. Then it is the clear conclusion from our point of view that one should do what we learn from this report: we should stop accelerating the measures already taken by the political majority. We should evaluate the impact of them, and we should evaluate the impact where we're going. I think that this review has been a useful reminder that we have a responsibility - it's not just to formulate fine goals and then lead a policy in conflict with the objectives we have, but there should be consistency between goals and instruments. The representative Ivar Kristiansen says that Stortinget has not protested about the distribution of resources, and that Stortinget has not engaged. Part of this, which should also be a lesson, is that the Storting should take greater responsibility for the implementation of the instrument, so that they are consistent with the objectives. Then we need more debates of this kind, and we also need more overarching political debates on the means of action. At that time, the Storting should also be allowed to decide whether to initially set the time limit in the unit quota scheme for the sea fishing fleet to be lifted. That should be the decision of the Storting. The size should also determine whether to open to transfer device allowances from freeze trawls to factory trawls. There should be a self-evident consequence of such treatment. If Storting doesn't take that responsibility, it doesn't matter in administrative audits like this that you can place a certain kind of responsibility. I think it's more interesting for the voters to see that it's actually the politicians and the different political parties on the Stortinget that have that responsibility, not the administration in the first place.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e522	It is particularly commendable that the Riksrevision has done such a thorough job in assessing the impact of the fisheries policy on the fisheries policy objectives set by the Stortinget. The wording is quite clear. A fisheries and aquaculture policy shall be pursued in order to contribute to increased value creation in a profitable and sustainable fisheries and aquaculture industry, while at the same time providing a basis for coastal settlement, employment and development, as set out in documents from the Stortinget. This industry has an extremely important economic and employment role for the nation. It is therefore essential that a resource management should be carried out to ensure that the industry is sustainable over time. The report of the National Audit Office shows that for the vast majority of fisheries, the withdrawal rate has been even higher over the period than the recommendations made by the researchers. It shall be said that the determination of annual withdrawals is not an easy exercise for a Minister for Fisheries, as these negotiations are ongoing in cooperation with other countries, and that they have a joint responsibility between nations to arrive at an annual withdrawal in line with the recommendations and requirements of sustainable management. Despite the higher output, the vast majority of fish stocks are in good condition, and most populations are also growing. This is positive and thus provides a basis for believing that the industry will be able to maintain and achieve sufficient profitability in the future. But it is not just negotiations with other nations and the determination of the annual withdrawal that are crucial for the development of fish stocks. I just want to make a brief comment also on the need to carry out a strict control of overfishing, as we know, especially in the Barents Sea. We should have sufficient control, have sufficient resources for the Coast Guard so that we can be present and carry out checks on board. This is also an important part of the administration, which the National Audit Office has not affected in its document, but which, in my opinion, has an impact on resource management, in addition to the annual allowances. The National Audit Office's report shows that there has been a sharp decline in the number of ships in recent years, while there has been a massive increase in capacity. The boats get bigger, you get bigger engines and more efficient tools. This has led to quotas being taken in a very short period of time, in a few weeks. You experience a price pressure, and you get little availability in periods of the year. All of this is negative both in terms of quality, in terms of the market and in relation to the industry on land. The Minister for Fisheries has contributed to the introduction of vessel quotas in cod fishing. It's very positive, and I think it can actually be one of the measures that can work better in terms of capacity-adjustment than many of the other measures that have been tried out. One avoids a cape fishing, where it will be to make the landing the most possible catch in the shortest possible time. One can focus more on quality, on even raw material access distributed over the year, and the need to increase capacity precisely to catch the most fish in the shortest possible time will be reduced. This is positive. Nevertheless, the decisions taken by the Storting on structural measures in the industry, with the negotiability of the quota, in my opinion will reinforce a trend in relation to increased capacity building. The sin is that no impact assessment was carried out prior to the adoption of this structural system, either in relation to the objectives set by the fisheries policy in terms of geographical diversification, etc., or in relation to capacity building. We're going to get into the exact same situation that we're in now. Some years after trying the new scheme, the Riksrevision will review how this scheme has worked, and I fear that it will not be particularly positive. The purchase and sale of allowances leads to even fewer and even larger vessels, and the situation we have seen in recent years is likely to accelerate. The industry’s indebtedness has increased strongly. It will continue to increase as a consequence of this tradability of allowances. This will lead to increased pressure towards the need to take out larger allowances on each ship, which will again lead to pressure on the resources. The Minister for Fisheries has also proposed that the unit quota in the sea fishing fleet, which has so far been limited in time, should now be made permanent. We have also had a large capacity building in the sea fishing fleet, and in many ways it can be said that this is where capacity building has been the strongest. I don't think you can solve the problems within this group by introducing an eternal quota. This will lead to a concentration on ever fewer hands and also here a pressure towards maximum extraction. The National Audit Office's report is a reflection in a number of areas. The National Auditor's report states that: «the means to reduce capacity have not worked after the intention». That's a pretty strong conclusion. This shows that there is a need to use other means than what has been done so far. Unfortunately, the new instruments adopted by the Stortinget on a proposal from the Government have not taken up the experience so far. In my opinion, they only intensify this development. Therefore, the National Audit Office’s report should be used in depth both in future fisheries policy debates here in the House and, in particular, by the Government in their approach to fisheries policy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e555	I am pleased that we have received this report from the Riksrevision on Fisheries. It is presented by a former Minister for Fisheries as head of the National Audit Office, and then I assume it is quality-secured enough. When you do structuring or structuring, you do it with one eye: you want more profitability in the industry or business. This reality is also the background to the structuring of the fishing industry. But in the fishing industry, there must also be another consideration, a political consideration. The fishing industry must be used to create a profitable and sustainable industry that provides a basis for coastal settlement, employment and development. The size has underlined the importance of fishing industries in many coastal communities and that this must be the basis for the design of the instruments. My claim is that the aim of the Storting is translated into the structuring of the industry. It has gone so far that along the coast, the Bondevik government and its support players are called ‘resource pirates’. There is a massive privatisation of the property of the Norwegian people. We in Stortinget cannot allow this. We can't allow society to be transferred free of charge to the state, and then allocate it to fewer and fewer actors who become both millionaires and billionaires. The coastal party will not allow this! Fisheries Minister Svein Ludvigsen has made strong reactions by claiming that he has not privatised the fishing resources, nor has he made the quotas forever for ever fewer and larger fish owners. Most of the others in the industry, including me, see it a little bit differently. Both researchers, fishermen, administrators and economists believe that the Minister of Fisheries and the rest of the Bondevik government have privatised the fishing community, which has always been the property of people in the past. The initial value of the catches being taken is approx. 10 billion a year. These are enormous values we're talking about. There are enormous values to be managed according to the Storting in such a way that it creates activity, income and settlement along the coast. Will the current structure create settlement and activity along the coast of Northern Ireland, in the coastal areas of Troms and along the Finnmark coast? No, I don't think it will. And I want to justify it with numbers. According to the Riksaudition report, fishermen are invited to pay for the right to fish through the unit quota system and the vessel quota system introduced to reduce capacity. These investments are at the top of investments in vessels and tools. The total debt in the Norwegian fishing fleet has increased from DKK 9 billion in 1986 to DKK 16 billion in 2002, while the total catch value has increased by 5 pst. It is important for me to point out that the whole change in fleet structure has been made to increase profitability and increase the income of fishermen. Today, with the low interest rate, you could say it happened. But the interest rate won't stay at a low level for a year. So what's going to happen? It is not right to claim that coastal settlements and jobs are strengthened by this policy. Far from it! The industry that is located on the coast of the Barents Sea - this huge dining pot in the north - lies with its broken back. I can mention Vardø. I can mention Gamvik and Hasvik. The fact that Vardø has lost 540 jobs in the last 15 years is, in proportion, as if Oslo had lost 90 000 jobs. We cannot, the Norwegian people will not, accept that Finnmark can no longer be a state with many safe and good fishing-based jobs. It will be a disgrace to Norway internationally if these societies disappear! The national audit indicates that there has been a shift towards larger fishing vessels, both within the marine fleet and within the coastal fleet. The majority of the Control and Constitutional Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party and the SV, believe that this change could lead to concentration of fishing rights in individual districts. The majority assume that the Government, through different regulations and limitations, will pursue district objectives set by the Storting. As I said, these objectives are not being met by today's policies. Today, a policy is being pursued that will lead to the depopulation of the coast of Finnmark! The representative Ivar Kristiansen says that overcapacity can lead to overtaxation. It's completely wrong. Overcapacity in the fishing fleet cannot lead to over-taxation. There is a tax on a total quota laid down in negotiations. Overcapacity becomes the profitability of each fisherman. It has nothing to do with overtaxation. Then he goes on to say that the Storting has not been involved in the fisheries policy. I can say I agree with that. But we've been good at giving powers to the Government and to the departments that handle this. Professor Rögvaldur Hannesson of the Norwegian School of Commerce is the ideologist behind the privatisation policy of the Højres and the Bondevik government. In the Official Journal of the European Union, he gives his full support to the proposal that the owners of the sea-going fishing fleet should be allowed to accumulate larger quotas by buying from others and owning the additional quotas forever. He says it's great that Ludvigsen will legislate this already in ours. So the question is, who owns the fish? Is it the Norwegian people, or is it privatized? Is it private that owns the fish, or are we? In posts in newspapers, Minister of Fisheries Ludvigsen claims that the distribution between the coastal fishing fleet and the sea fishing fleet should be fixed. The distribution has been around this for several years. 70 pst. the quota shares in cod fisheries have been allocated to the coastal fleet and approx. 30 pst. to the sea fishing fleet. The National Audit Board concludes that the sea fishing fleet in the period 1990-2002 was 2-3 pst. of the Norwegian fishing fleet. The sea fishing fleet took up at the base of 80 pst. of the total catch of the country, while the coastal fleet took up well 20 pst. Total catch increased by 72 pst. during the same period. The national audit also states that the survey shows that capacity has increased despite structural changes. However, although quotas have been introduced limiting catch, the vessel owners have chosen to increase catch capacity. The National Audit Office points out that the means of reducing the number of ships and limiting the development of vessels have either not been sufficient or have been practised in such a way that the reduction in capacity target has not been achieved. The total annual catch of the sea fishing fleet of 80 pst. of the country’s fishing resources are, of course, related to the enormous value of pelagic fisheries in the Norwegian fishing industry. Professor Rålvaldur Hannesson of the Norwegian School of Commerce was the ideologist behind the structuring of the Icelandic fishing fleet. I know a large Icelandic fishing boatowner who is part of a larger fishing boat company. He curses the evolution that he himself had to decide to be in, if he were to remain in the Icelandic fisheries. The allowances are expensive. Small fishing communities have disappeared. Social responsibility in the Icelandic fisheries is gone. The industry has become a fully-fledged capitalist industry. I would like to point out that the Riksrevision report points out that we are not going to have such a development in Norway. I want to ask that we elected elected representatives take inward this serious message. I have already asked for the establishment of a selection to review today's fisheries policy. There will be a message for the autumn. Let's be critical of what we've allowed. We have the chance to fix it again. Ingolfur Arnarson is an Icelandic researcher who is an employee of the Institute of Economics at the University of Iceland. He says, "I'm not an opponent of negotiable quotas in fisheries, but the prerequisite for introducing the Icelandic quota system was to increase the profitability of fisheries." Have we heard this before? Most research reports suggest that this has not happened. The profitability of the new quota system is no better than that of the old capping system, says Arnarson. What have they got out of the extensive structuring in Iceland, which had the same start as the one we now have in Norway? For the whole period, i.e. in the last 20 years, there has been political concern about quota policy. From an economic point of view, the entire quota system seems to be a flop, in addition to the fact that most people think it's unfair, says Arnarson. That's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e600	I am pleased with the focus that the Riksrevision has put on fisheries management and the views that the Committee reflects both in its position and in the rapporteur's presentation on behalf of a relatively co-ordinated committee. The management of resources is demanding, as many have been involved, and I am pleased that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is so clearly in agreement with the Ministry that the administrative audit of the National Audit Office is useful lessons, but that it also has its limitations. The objectives of fisheries and aquaculture policy are ambitious, said the representative of Brørby in his speech, and I agree with that. But sustainability is the very foundation of fisheries policy and fisheries management in order to achieve positive results. Complexity becomes very visible at the crossroads between the reasons why we manage common resources with other countries, and that the value added perspective must be linked both to the fishing and land-based industries, as well as to the long-term dependence of the rural settlement on the fishing industry. In this way, the balance point must lie in the triangle in the interests of socio-economic and business needs and sustainable biology. I am also pleased that the Committee seems to take into account that the long-term management objectives of sustainable stocks must have a leading value-added approach that has a time perspective that takes into account the economic importance of the fisheries and aquaculture industry for the nation and its role in the achievement of rural policy objectives. Management of living marine resources is becoming increasingly complex, despite the desire for simplification. The National Audit Office has had to make some simplifications in its investigation. It is understandable, and it is necessary, but, as the Committee also points out, when it is not focused on the whole of the administration, caution should also be exercised in drawing the bastant conclusions. The country-based part of the industry is, for example, not included, and therefore the report must be read with the restrictions it entails, as was the case with the rapporteur. The Ministry has harvested - there is no doubt - useful experience in contact with the Riksrevision during the course of the study. This has led to a useful review of the challenges that have been identified, and in several areas we have already improved procedures and reporting in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. I therefore agree with the Committee and the National Audit Office, which believes that the study will be a good tool for future management and useful in the work of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department on improving procedures and practices in the field of establishment management, reporting and evaluation. The comments of the Control and Constitutional Committee will also provide important guidance in a continuous process to improve management. I would like to stress that we are responsible for the sustainable exploitation of fishing resources. Quotas for all common populations managed in cooperation between Norway and Russia are now determined on the basis of agreed, sustainable management strategies. The agreement as from 2003 in the Norwegian-Russian administrative cooperation in the Barents Sea is thus a clear improvement and in line with the recommendations of the Riksrevision. I also note that the Committee welcomes the fact that the quota fixing in the Barents Sea this year is in line with the scientific recommendations. The representative Kristiansen is right when he shows that most populations are growing. It's primarily a result of wise management over a longer period of time. Predefined decision-making rules on the determination of allowances under variable stock conditions contribute to increased predictability of the industry and to mitigate annual variations in quota and stock sizes - for the benefit of both stocks and economic operators. Mandatory international cooperation is essential for the ability to manage common stocks in a sustainable manner and to control the total fish yield. This work is given high priority by the Norwegian side, but experience shows that our main management partners, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, the EU and Russia, do not always have matching priorities with our Norwegians. In this way, we need to balance short-term deviations from the advice with the need to safeguard Norwegian long-term interests. But I agree with Mr Enoksen's point of view on quota negotiations with other countries, and how complicated it may be, precisely because the different countries do not always have matching priorities and interests. The majority of the Committee is concerned that the debt has increased - several speakers have mentioned it - although capacity reduction measures have been implemented. It is then important to remind all of us that the direct purpose of the structural arrangements is to reduce the number of vessels, thereby increasing the quota base and the catch income of each vessel, while at the same time helping to reduce operating costs and expenditure for example. maintenance, insurance, tools, etc. This will provide a quota basis for fleet renewal in order to provide fishermen with a better and safer working environment, which in turn stimulates recruitment and, not least, better qualitative exploitation of the whole fish. The technical capacity of vessels and the burden of debt may thus be increased if, at the same time as the reduction in the number of vessels, new and larger vessels are replaced by technological development or by the enhancement of competences. But it's not given that the profitability there will get worse. The overall technical fishing capacity of the fleet is therefore of less interest than the number of units of the fleet. It is the shipowners who know the capacity of the ship and who can adapt the operating base through the structural arrangements in order to maximise profitability. Intervention regulations are therefore mainly aimed at limiting the number of vessels and to a lesser extent at regulating the design of vessels. For fewer vessels, there is no doubt that there will be a greater quota base for the remaining vessels and an increase in the catch income for each active fishing vessel. It is also the objective of the structural arrangements which are and will be offered the ring-fleet fleet as well as the other and coastal fleets. Preventing fishermen from using new technologies and replacing them with more efficient vessels cannot be a matter of current policy, although I hear views from others suggesting that fishermen and fishing boat owners will be overruled in the renewal of fleets. I also record the debate on the proposed structural measures for the sea fishing fleet, which is still being consulted, and therefore I am not going to go into discussion about it. But the dispute over the concept of ‘eternal quota’ is interesting. Nevertheless, there is a debate which, at best, has to be characterised as very unsound in terms of the concept of ‘permanent’. Therefore, I should just like to state that there is no fundamental difference between the right of a skewer on the Finnish coast to harvest its share of a quota and the right of a purser, whether it be the original quota or any additional quota. They are equally eternal and equally unlimited, all allowances, and one must be qualified in order to maintain their rights. Therefore, this debate on ‘eternal allowances’ becomes quite misleading in itself, because the concept of eternity cannot be used in this context and cannot be used in one way or another on one group of vessels and not on another. Basically, there is no difference between the fishing fleet and a seagoing vessel in this way. We need to recognise that there has been a pooling of resources, not the improvements made in the 2001 Storting Report. Within the resources allocated to the Directorate of Fisheries, however, we have achieved good results. At the last year’s Commission meeting between Norway and Russia, a thorough discussion of the problems of unregulated cod withdrawals in the Barents Sea was held. Both parties are concerned about the situation and agree to take the necessary measures to address the illegality. Among other things, there is agreement to impose reporting obligations on ships transhipping at sea. In addition, vessels receiving catch by transhipment at sea are subject to a satellite tracking obligation in line with other fishing vessels. In other words, I share the Committee's expressed concern in this area. But let me also say that those who from Stortinget's pulpit today say that capacity has nothing to do with overfishing and illegalities at sea are wrong. It is clear that overcapacity inspires increased illegalities at sea, and the unregulated and illegal fishing that is overcapacity is an international, yes global problem. The work on monitoring the activity of Russian vessels in the Barents Sea is also being carried out in close cooperation between the Fisheries Directorate, the Coast Guard and the Russian authorities. Cooperation between the Directorate of Fisheries and the Coast Guard has been strengthened in recent years. Cooperation has been considerably expanded in the day-to-day work of inspections/landing checks and follow-up of cases. On that occasion, let me again underline that without the good cooperation between the Coast Guard and the fisheries management, it would not have been possible to clear up a number of the conditions that have been improved on the control side. However, resource control is a young discipline both nationally and internationally. Some suggest that control requirements will be lower in the future. Work related to the transshipment activity of Russian vessels in the Barents Sea as well as to the pelagic sector control around the North Sea has revealed that resource control actually covers much more than what has traditionally been included in the concept. The Committee is concerned with more and better writing, improved procedures and documentation in the work on resource control, as is also the subject of the National Audit Office. I agree with that, and from 1 January this year we have strengthened control of the maritime control activities, led by two centres of expertise in Tromsø and Ålesund, in close cooperation with the other regional offices of the Fisheries Directorate. Because we do not avoid the need for empowerment in administration in this area, because we are dealing with actors who are gradually faced with relatively sophisticated ways of circumventing legislation. The Directorate has now, in cooperation with the Coast Guard and the Sales Act, developed an overall strategy, broken down on individual stocks, for the use of risk assessment in resource control. This will be put to work during 2005. Cooperation with the largest sales teams has improved in terms of resource control, and I will follow up the Committee's comments on the withdrawal of funds, both with regard to the basis of the law, the use of funds and the control of the use of funds. The Committee points out, as it is right, that the lack of performance indicators is primarily due to complex policy objectives linked to the fishing industry. I see, of course, the need for concrete performance requirements, while etat management has traditionally focused on describing the performance of the work, but has reported less on performance and achievement. This is perhaps one of the most important lessons we can draw from the National Audit Office's report, which makes the need for this clear. These changes have now been made and the Ministry is working on finding satisfactory indicators. For example, in the consultation notes on the structural quota system for the sea fishing fleet, which was issued on 26 November last year, we have defined indicators for the achievement of objectives in this way: the objective is, as I said, to reduce the number of vessels and defined indicators for success we have tried to define as: the number of vessels to be hauled without a number of working days on the remaining vessels; The debate raised the issue of rent. This is a complex and significant issue related to fisheries policy, and the Government will return to the Storting with these issues in a different context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e669	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e672	I understood the Council of State Ludvigsen's definition of what an «eternal quota» is, as a sort of retreat from what he said earlier, and then I want to ask him: does that mean that the Council of State is now going to lay down and work entirely on the basis of what a unanimous nutrition committee has said in the Innst? O. No 55 for 1998-99? There the Committee says: ‘The Committee will point out that the fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people, jointly. Therefore, no individual or individual company may be granted exclusive exclusive rights to harvest and serve those resources free of charge, while others are excluded from fishing.’» My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State agree with this statement and this unanimous comitology?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e682	This government has no problem standing on the definition given by the representative Brørby here, and I stress that the allowance is the property of the community. Therefore, on a later occasion, the Government will also come back to the issue of rent, because there is an essential element in the setting of the quota and the fixing of ship prices, including fishing rights. It's also true that no one has an eternal right to an allowance. Those qualified through defined qualifications are granted a right to fish for a share of the total quota. It is allocated annually. There is no fundamental difference between a starfisher allocated its quota for fishing off the coast of Troms and a sea fishing vessel fishing in the Barents Sea. Once this discussion of so-called eternal quotas has come up, there is a debate that is not inspired by the Ministry of Fisheries. This is part of a debate related to the structuring of the sea fishing fleet that is out for consultation, where we have defined three different models for a future structuring with the right to transfer allowances. [[The President clubs.]] There is no difference between what we are proposing for the coastal fleet and what the Storting has decided, and what we are proposing for the marine fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e687	The number of a line is 1 minute. The president just reminds me of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e690	I mean, what the state council here does in its answer, and also in the post, is misplace the debate. Of course, a suspension of the unit's allowance timeout does not make allowances more or less eternal than normal allowances. It makes them ordinary concessions. But what the government does is change the rules. For that was the whole point that they should be time-limited, when one introduced them, for those who were followers of it, to take out other vessels. I think it's quite perceptive that the same Christian People's Party that then introduced the quotas, said stop, no we have to evaluate, we have to figure out whether the system works before we introduce it, now is doing these quotas as eternally as ordinary quotas. I have to admit that I am still wondering if the Council of State is interested in taking lessons from the report and finding out whether the salary is actually getting better or worse after one has been subjected to the form of structuring that the majority of the population makes available to the operators in the industry. Would you like to continue with a priori guesses as to whether it will be profitable, or should you consider whether it will actually be?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e699	Then I am pleased that the representative says that we have a common experience that there is nothing that is eternal allowances, there are no allowances that are more eternal than others. They are time-limited as long as they comply. With regard to the debate now taking place on the so-called additional quotas for the sea fishing fleet that are being transferred by structuring, we must remember that those quotas were to be allocated to the remaining vessels in the group. There has never been any suggestion that these should be allocated to society, which could assign them to some new ones. It has been the assumption throughout, under changing governments, that these were to be allocated to the ships already within the group. It's an aspect of this debate that I think has gone away, when you now talk about this being something that society should have and assign to someone else. It's never been the assumption, just so it's totally fixed. President, I was still living in old age in Stortinget and thought that speaking time was more than 1 minute -- sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e711	Yes, but there are some of us who follow in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e716	It is quite right, as the Minister for Fisheries says, that the time-limited unit quotas should initially be allocated to the remaining vessels, when the time for unit quotas had expired. So what the Minister for Fisheries is doing is assigning the quotas to those who have placed themselves and used the unit quotas, these quotas -- and I'm choosing to use the term forever, that is. as long as you are in the fishery. This means that the rules of the game have been amended as regards the premises on which the unit quotas were introduced in due time. A good part of the industry chose when the unit quota period was over, to keep its boats in order not to lose the supply of catch, to take one example, while others have used this and thus now get from the Minister of Fisheries a security that they should not initially have, which would be distributed throughout the group. That's the actual situation. My question is: will the Minister for Fisheries in any way contribute to the participation of the Stortinge in the debate on this important issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e723	The fact is that last autumn we sent out to the hearing three alternatives, one of which was to continue today's system without any changes. Another proposal was what is now being debated, which is to transfer the remaining relative share of the allowance in relation to the time it has been spent, and to retain it for as long as you have rights in the original allowance. The hearing round is not over. We have not reached a conclusion, and we do not do so until we have concluded the hearing. Then it's time to listen to the industry, listen to the political advice that comes, and then draw conclusions. What is now being asked is to draw a conclusion before the hearing is concluded. I note that the debate is about one of the proposals, and that it has been overlooked that I have actually also asked the industry to consider whether we should continue the scheme as it is. When the hearing is over and we've made assessments, I can also tell you how, and if so, if we're going to make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e732	It was said by Ivar Kristiansen and the Minister for Fisheries that overcapacity could lead to illegalities. It's a justification for the debate. Irregularities are unacceptable in any case. So the Minister of Fisheries said that the transhipment of catches between the ships in the Barents Sea was to be monitored by satellite. It's a derailment. There is no problem with following the ship and even knowing the name of it. It goes with approx. Twenty-four miles. We know which port it's going to. We know which quai it's adding. We know what the boat's name is. You don't need satellite tracking to know. But you have to have a coastguard ship to follow it, and you have to have an Orion plane. It's not much use with F-16 in that case. What does the Minister for Fisheries do to limit the illegal transhipment carried out in the Barents Sea - because we do not need satellite tracking?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e741	I think that if Mr Bastesen's representative is thinking about it, he will probably have to admit that overcapacity and a strenuous economy for Norwegian fishing industry and international fishing industry inspires regulation, because it's a matter of surviving financially. That's a confession that we have to take with us. I agree that illegalities are unacceptable in any case, but denying that overcapacity has something to do with this seems to me to be distorting reality. With regard to the Russian transhipment and the Russian overfishing in the Barents Sea, we have documented it. We have faced Russia with it, and they recognise that this is a problem. Then we have jointly established a regulatory framework in which, among other things: satellite tracking and other documentation shall enable us to track the landing location of the fish. We have also addressed this with EU authorities. I myself have been in the EU and discussed how to get better port state control so that we can identify where the fish is landed. But there's an international cooperation going on. It's too easy to stand on Stortingen's pulpit and say that now we have to send Coast Guards into international waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e748	I believe the Minister for Fisheries misunderstood the intention of the representative, Mr Enoksen. I do not believe that the representative Enoch has any need to ‘pushe on’ in order for the Council of State to draw its conclusions. But both the Central Party, the Labour Party and the SV make it clear that we want this case to be dealt with in the Stortinget, with or without the representations of the conclusions, which appear after the fishing press, as if the Council of State has already drawn. And that might be a fundamental difference. The Council of State said in its speech that it seems that some people here today need to override business operators in relation to technology choices - of course not. What we pointed out was that the framework conditions that the authorities should, for example. making structural quotas available to the fleet affects the kind of technology choices that the operators in the industry will take. By increasing the capital requirement, an operator in the industry is forced to find ways to improve the service capacity, and then, for example, will. increasing the technical capacity of an instrument. I am still wondering if the Council of State is interested in taking lessons and finding out whether these capacity-reducing measures actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e757	I repeat: we have three alternatives out at the hearing, and one of the options is to continue today's policy. Once the hearings have been concluded and we have made our assessments, it is quite natural that we should also consider how to proceed in the event that we come up with amendments. If there are no amendments, the matter in itself will not be much to report to Stortinget either. So I can answer that question when we finish the consultation round and see what conclusions we draw. With regard to technical capacity, it is clear that it is increasing when investing in a new vessel. You also want to give fishermen a safer and better job. That, I think, is a significant contribution to the renewal of the fleet - safe, good jobs that make young people choose the fishing profession. This does not necessarily mean that profitability is getting poor even if debt increases. From the structuring of the coastal fleet, we now have good examples of spending on the maintenance of more ships, on insurance, and on tools being so heavily reduced that profitability increases even if debt increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e767	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e777	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Christian People's Party Group to the representative Anita Apelthun Seele from 7 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The representative of thevariety, Pål Kårbø, is invited to attend during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e795	Then we go to voting on the matters that are listed on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-02-03.ana.ud2653e889	There is no record.
