ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e34	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e41	We have for handling Ot.prp. No 68 for 2004-2005, which is mainly about two things: pension fund law and change in the pension law. The Board of Directors shall be consulted on all its proposals, but in addition, a single committee shall make an important proposal to reduce the costs incurred by the companies in the event of compulsory occupational retirement provision. There are also two minority suggestions in the setting, which I would like to mention. Under current law, the legislation of life insurance corporations and pension funds is broadly consistent. Important elements of the rules are requirements for the funding of future liabilities, requirements for the holding of own funds and requirements for the management of the funds. While important rules for life companies are laid down by law, until now, pension funds have essentially been regulated by regulations. Both the important role of pension funds and the similarity between pension funds and life companies mean that important rules for pension funds are laid down by law, and that is what Odelstinget does today. In connection with the handling of Ot.prp. No 11 for 2003-2004 the Committee asked for priority to be given to the distribution of inter-municipal pension funds. The government has done so and now proposes that a pension fund can manage separate pension schemes for several municipalities and is joined by a single committee. On the other hand, the Committee will give private enterprises the same opportunity to create a common pension fund, which is very important in view of the fact that on Thursday, during the management of the pension reform, we will decide to introduce a compulsory service pension. Mandatory occupational retirement provision will require a large number of enterprises, mainly small and medium-sized, which do not currently have a pension scheme to establish it. The framework conditions must therefore enable pension resources to be managed safely and at the lowest possible cost. A common pension fund for several enterprises is an important proposal to reduce costs. This proposal is also supported by a minority of the Banking Law Commission, such as the Bank Law Commission. indicates that the operating costs of a pension fund are equal to half the costs of life insurance. The Committee asks the Government to submit legislative proposals as soon as possible to this effect, as we are now opening up to inter-municipal pension funds. Minorities, the Progress Party and the Center Party take up suggestions that the contribution fund should also be able to cover losses for ordinary performances, and that additional provisions should be able to cover negative returns. I'm glad there's still a broad majority in the committee that rejects this. The Committee dealt with the same question as late as last year and also rejected it at that time. Using additional provisions to cover losses would be a clear reversal of the risk distribution between the client and the financial institution. There must be a clear limitation in legislation between the customer capital and the ownership capital of the pension scheme. Own funds in the form of own funds shall be capable of covering losses. It is important that tax-free arrangements, which are also to be used for the benefit of customers, do not take over this role as the responsible capital. So that's what makes changes to the law on indemnity pension. We open this law so that we can also receive contributions from employees, in line with the wishes of the organisations in connection with the 2004 wage settlement. The government recommends that payments from both the company and employees should be made in the same account. As a result, the costs of the scheme will also be deducted from the contributions to the enterprise. The majority of the Committee, all the non-participating Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, adopted the opinion at Innst. O. No 2 for 2000-2001 to also open up the possibility for the enterprise to vary the contributions from year to year by up to 25 pst. higher or lower inputs than fixed in the inlet plan. As a result, in the year in which the enterprise pays lower contributions, it will be an even greater proportion of its employees’ contributions that will actually go to administrative costs rather than to own pension savings. A minority, SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, therefore believe that there is no doubt that the contributions they make to the pension scheme give a corresponding higher pension. We would therefore stress that they add their deposits not to be used to cover administrative costs, and make proposals in line with that. With that I would recommend the setting. I also take up the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party and of course recommend this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e69	The representative of Heidi Grande Røys has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e72	The rapporteur has made good progress on the matter, where there is no major disagreement in the Committee on Government Proposals. In one area, however, I need to explain the somewhat more nuanced reasons and specific comments of the government parties, and the proposal for the promotion of joint pension funds for private enterprises. We also agree with the proposal, but we have found it necessary to say a little about the challenges we think will be faced in the work on such a proposal. The Banking Law Commission did not fully agree on this issue. A minority considered that there should be a general access to the possibility that two or more entities may agree to have a common pension scheme. The majority of the Banking Law Commission also found that it should be considered that there is an opportunity to create a common pension fund for entities that, branded, are part of the same group or group based on mutual ownership. It was an important fundamental distinction drawn by the Banking Law Commission between companies that were within or outside the same group. Therefore, the minority of the Banking Law Commission, as I see it, called for a substantial conversion of one of the main principles of the Occupational Pensions Act and the Pensions Act that a pension scheme should be linked to one enterprise or to several within the same group, which the majority of the Commission therefore rejected. Another important question in this regard is whether a single pension fund should be able to manage several pension schemes for several independent undertakings. The question becomes where to draw the distinction between a life insurance company and a pension fund. It is well illustrated in the proposition and further elaborated by the ministry by letter to the Committee. For there is a difference between the rules of a pension fund and the rules of a life company, precisely because a pension fund administers a single enterprise scheme, while a life company manages many different schemes for several independent enterprises. We agree, as I said, with the proposal that the Government should propose a single pension fund for several private enterprises, but we believe here, and have pointed out, that any proposal that allows the pension fund to manage many different pension schemes for independent enterprises will be a matter of considerable challenges in relation to the legal differences that now exist between the pension fund and the life company, so I can only end up wanting the ministry to succeed in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e85	The rapporteur has given a thorough explanation of the vote, so I just need to brief briefly on the minority views and proposals of the Progress Party. The Association of Norwegian Pension Funds has arranged for pension funds to be given the opportunity to use the contribution fund to cover losses, including for ordinary benefit schemes. This, combined with the ability to use the additional reserves to cover negative returns, will increase the buffer capital of pension funds and risk-bearing capacity and thus provide a basis for higher returns over time and reduced pension costs. In the light of the assessment of the Progress Party, it is difficult to see that competition considerations can justify that pension funds cannot use the contribution fund and the additional provisions to cover the deficit in the management. Furthermore, the capital adequacy requirement in the proposal for sections 6 to 3 is superfluous in the context of the proposal for sections 6 to 4 concerning the solvency margin requirements and the existing buffer capital requirements. The Progress Party will therefore vote against § 6-3. Several hearing bodies shall call for the removal of the requirement of an external member of the Management Board and shall remove the requirement for the accountable actuaries and auditors to meet twice per meeting. year of the Governing Board meeting. We can't see that there's any reason to regulate the composition of the board. Nor can we see that significant considerations are ensured by requiring the presence of the actuary and auditor at board meetings. The board of directors of a pension fund will have representatives from the institutions behind the pension fund and from members of the pension scheme. Therefore, it does not appear well justified that external representatives of the Governing Board will be necessary to give better substance to the work of the Governing Board. § 7-11 requires pension funds to provide members with information on the level of accrued-to-date entitlements each year. This appears to be an inappropriate wording in relation to pension schemes and municipal pension schemes, as there can be no accurate information on such a level in these schemes. The Progress Party would therefore stress that regulatory access must be used by the Ministry in order to clarify that information on acquired rights cannot be provided in schemes where those rights cannot be clearly defined. I bring up the minority proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e102	Siv Jensen has taken up the suggestion she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e105	The centre party feels it is positive that we now have changes to the law, such as: leads to increased competition for the provision of defined contribution schemes without an insurance element. It shall be open to the establishment of deposit-pension undertakings owned by a life-society, a bank or a mutual-fund management company. Intermunicipal pension funds that manage pension schemes for several municipalities are open. The Committee has concluded that the corresponding single pension fund scheme can be set up by private sector enterprises. This is all positive. The improvement of the conditions for pension funds is very important. They have lower administrative costs. Many small and medium-sized enterprises charged with occupational retirement provision from the new year should be able to choose to set up a single pension fund. The minority of the Banking Law Commission considers that the operating costs of the pension fund are half the costs of life insurance. It is important that the Ministry also now contributes to making such a new cost-saving option known and that the scheme is rapidly operational. At all events, the Ministry should assess an information campaign on pension reform. It can't be that only if and Storebrand are going to take care of that information. The Centre Party and the Progress Party support the proposals of Norwegian Pension Funds Association, which can further reduce pension costs in the pension fund. As customers and owners are the same in the pension funds, the requirement to be competitive with share-owned insurance companies should not apply, for example. the use of the contribution fund’s funds. The Centre Party has common comments and proposals with the Workers' Party, the SV and the Coastal Party that employee contributions should go unabated to increase pension payments and not be charged with administrative costs. In the context of this setting, the centre party has been tempted to address a few other questions which are central. Gender-neutral pension contributions to occupational pensions could now have been discussed. In Sweden, this is an indispensable requirement. This should also be done in Norway. Also a requirement that pension entitlements be moved unabated at the time of a job change applies in Sweden. We should have that, too. There should have been time and opportunity to discuss these principles in this setting, but the Central Party will at least come back to these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e124	Both the question of whether access should be granted to independent entities having their own pension scheme to join forces to establish a single pension fund and the question of whether access should be granted to several independent undertakings to form a single pension scheme is, in the view of the Ministry, a matter which should naturally be considered in the extension of the investigation into and subsequently the treatment of supplementary compulsory pension schemes by the Storting, i.e. occupational pension schemes. So we're going to look at this first. Since there will hardly be any difference between a life insurance company providing only pension insurance to different independent undertakings and a pension fund that does the same, a possible response could be to propose that the rules for pension funds which are to be able to manage several pension schemes for several independent undertakings should be identical to those for life insurance companies, for example. by the fact that there are two concession classes for pension funds, respectively concession as usual cash and concession as what we must be able to call life insurance funds. The important thing about these rules is to secure depositors. The problem that exists when private enterprises join one pension fund is that an enterprise can go bankrupt and put the pension fund and other people's contributions at risk. It must be ensured, inter alia, that: through legislation and legislation. The Banking Law Commission will now, for its part, be involved in the investigation of compulsory supplementary pensions, as I see a possible proposal for a decision in the Financial Committee's position on pension reform now on Thursday this week. That question needs to be addressed this summer. I have already called on Friday, after the big debate, very many of the social partners to a hearing on the further treatment of the occupational pension issue. The Banking Law Commission is prepared, for its part, to address the question on the same day for further work, so that no undue time is spent on this investigation. However, it is clear that when the Banking Law Commission, where the other parties are represented, comes up with its position, it requires a hearing. We aim to agree with the parties a progress here that allows Stortinget to get the necessary legislation on occupational pension schemes as early as possible until the autumn. Then, of course, the collapse of the Storting actually answers when you can start dealing with those questions. In the wake of this, the question of, among other things, common pension funds are investigated by the Banking Law Commission, but I state that the Banking Law Commission now has to give priority to occupational pension schemes and, secondly, to common pension funds rules in the light of the decision expected by the Storting. I can say that about the momentum. It should not take undue time, but I see it, given the strong desire of the parties to get occupational pension schemes up – to say it a little unpresist – as soon as possible, as necessary, to give priority to the question before the question of which investigation has been asked in this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e137	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e140	I would like to commend the Council of State for the specific and consensus procedure he is now putting up with. It's probably a little bit to take the result on Thursday in advance, but we believe that a more or less accumulated accumulation will adopt a compulsory service pension. But in order to be a real alternative for those companies that now have to set up schemes like them per. Today, it is clear that if we do not have an alternative legislation in place to choose a pension fund as an alternative to a new year's life company, those companies that do not have a pension agreement today will have to go through a life company. If the pension fund is an alternative, the worst-case expenditure is doubled within a short period of time if the enterprise is going to use the pension fund option. I understand that the Banking Act Commission should give priority to the most important thing, that's first, but I just want to make it clear that it is important for the choice of these companies that they have alternatives, and that we also get to present that solution before Christmas, so that we have the opportunity to show the companies an alternative after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e148	I cannot promise without saying that the decision on this issue may be taken in Stortinget before Christmas. So it's not done before. The Banking Law Commission has the capacity to take a case at a time after all. It is a general rule, for reasons of legal quality and in the interests of the parties, that the consultation period is normally three months. We can make exceptions so that it becomes six weeks. I can already mention that in the first case, the occupational pension schemes in companies that do not have them, I intend to propose to the parties that the consultation period be even shorter for the sake of progress. If that's understanding and acceptance for it, that means that we can get a greater momentum in the other issues as well. However, it is quite important in such matters that the parties are given reasonable time to comment, because it is despite all the social partners who are going to use the arrangements. So the consultation time is kind of the limiting factor here. I can well say so that a significant preparatory work has been done pending the decision of the Storting on this issue, which means that we can now have a progress that is faster than before. I can also mention that we have informed the members of the Contact Committee at an early stage about this progress, so that they have already begun to prepare their views on the occupational pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e157	For the Labour Party, it is very important that we get the most coherent decision that will be taken later in Odelstinget today, and that the government party is involved. It is clear that we have understood that it takes time, when something is to be done. The most important thing is that you get a service pension in place from 1 January next year. But even if we are impatient – and we are, because we have had suggestions on this before and not got it through – we realize, of course, that it must take time. I am therefore satisfied that the Minister of Finance says that he is busy doing the work as quickly as possible. The decision taken today is important. At least I'm very happy that all of the games go in for this. Although the representative from the Right was a bit reserved, they are involved, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e162	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 648]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e178	I will, on behalf of the case spokesman, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, who is a member of the Lagninget, briefly do the right thing for the case. The amendments to the Securities Trading Act adopted today come in the light of an EEA Directive on the format of prospectuses. A plurality of the Financial Committee, all parties other than the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, has joined the Government's proposal for changes in the limits of the amounts in respect of prospectus obligations. The proposal envisages that this obligation should be exercised in the event of an offer involving amounts above EUR 100000, which is addressed to 100 persons or more. At another important point in the configuration, the committee is divided. A plurality, the government party and the Progress Party will have Oslo Børs operational responsibility for the control and approval of the prospectus. The minority, the Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party will assign both the operational responsibility and the responsibility to the Credit Authority. The proposal for new rules on the application of prospectus obligations involves liberalisation in relation to the current limits. SV found that these changes could be supported. The Government has chosen to impose as much obligation as possible within the scope of the Directive and has also chosen to use the possibility of imposing a prospectus obligation for so-called national prospectuses. We support this. Without using this scheme, the prospectus obligation would apply only to the purchase or subscription of EUR 2,5 million or more, which would mean a significant decrease in access to information in the securities market, both for operators, authorities and general government. It is also important to stress that the limit of EUR 100000 is significantly lower than that under which Norwegian legislation existed before EEA membership. SV is dissatisfied with the fact that the government has chosen Oslo Børs as its control body, and that she is being supported today by a scarcely multiple. A number of hearing bodies have agreed that the credit supervision should have the operational as well as the responsibility for the control and approval of prospectuses. The prospectus directive also emphasises that the authority body should be completely independent from market players. We share that view. We believe the credit supervision is the body that best meets the requirement of such complete independence. The question of operational responsibility for the control of prospectuses should be considered in conjunction with the responsibility for auditing the accounts. This responsibility has already been added by Stortinget to the Credit Authority. It's not just SV who thinks it is. Other hearing aids, including: The Banking Authority and Norway Bank have stressed that coordination of prospectus and accounting control could provide synergies and more rational use of resources. The minority here today also agrees with Norway's Bank and the supervision that it is important that the principle of prospectus and accounting control be put in a context and enforced equally. We therefore believe it would be a clearer and more effective solution to put the control tasks of the Credit Authority in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e198	This is one of several financial market issues that harmonises and adapts Norwegian legislation to international developments. For the right, it is important that business has a regulatory framework that facilitates value creation. In the field of financial markets, legislation must contribute to an efficient capital market in which operators can rely on each other, where the information is relevant and credible, and where conditions exist for good capital access for the enterprises. The representative of Grande Røys, on behalf of the rapporteur, has explained the position, and there is, with few exceptions, an overall committee behind the proposals in the proposal. With regard to the prospectus ceiling, the Right emphasises that wide market offers must maintain a good quality and be credible. Therefore, the minimum requirement for prospectuses is laid down in the Directive. This is slightly higher than the current Norwegian border, but sufficient in relation to the need. The right is pleased that it is a majority that subscribes to the proposal to give the overall control responsibility to the Credit Authority, but delegate the operational control to Oslo Børs. Oslo Børs has the control responsibility for prospectuses today, and a number of market actors have pointed out that this works well. The prospectus control has clear parallels to the control of information flows in general, which is a central task for Oslo Børs. For the market, it is important that this function functions efficiently and professionally, so that transactions do not encounter unnecessary obstacles. Feedbacks show that Oslo Børs has a high level of competence and trust and long-term practice in such work. There is little reason to change practice — on the contrary. There is reason to note that a number of actors, including the NHO and the Main Financial Industry Organisation, recommend that the stock exchange continue this work, stressing that this is an integrated function in the control tasks of the stock exchange. For Norwegian companies, it is important that the stock exchange maintains its weight as a trading venue and provides opportunities for good capital access.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e211	The Progress Party agrees with most of the proposals that have been made in this matter. In the case of a national prospectus of between 100000 and 2,5 million prospectuses. Euros, we'll do the same. But we have a note that we think it is very important and important that there must be a correlation between the cost of drawing up the prospectus and the amount of the issue that one withdraws. If there is too much cost in relation to the amount of the issue, we believe that it would be stimulating for a person to try to escape the prospectus obligation. We therefore believe that national prospectuses should not be unnecessarily extensive, and that it would be sufficient for one to rely largely on existing economic figures and to expect economic development. In addition to the fact that the prospectus obligation is important, we think it's not enough. It is also pointed out that it is important that the prospectuses are also checked in a professionally good manner. One must remember that a company like The 5 Percent Community had a nice prospectus, but it wasn't revealed that the promises that were made didn't hold true. That is why, together with the Centre Party, we have put forward comments and suggestions that one should consider independent stock supervision as one should build up with sufficient competence and experience to assess both the content and the quality of the different prospectuses. We believe that an independent stock supervision, which would be quite independent, would be a good contribution to building confidence in the stock market so that investors could rely on the information provided. Unfortunately, it's only the Center Party that's come across us. It's a shame that no more people did it, but it's of course good that at least we got the Center Party with us. As a conclusion, I would only like to address the proposal of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e224	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e227	An EEA Directive on prospectuses to be submitted when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading requires us to include less than today the prospectus requirement. The Centre Party proposes that the current limits on the prospectus obligation be maintained, that is to say, all offers relating to amounts above EUR 40000. There is good reason to believe that the level of share fraud contributes to a significant reduction in the number of small private shareholders in Oslo Stock Exchange and the grey market in recent years. Not least, the need for control of the smaller capital invitations seems to be high. The proposal of the centre party means that the number of prospectuses to be checked is to be as at present. The government's proposal reduces the need for control, and the Central Party believes that this is an unfortunate and socially unprofitable saving. Checking that all actors are provided with accurate, adequate and simultaneous information is essential for confidence in the securities trade. In order to make the information contained in the prospectus equally available to all, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party propose that at least the summary of the prospectus should be available in Norwegian. I think it's strange that no more are concerned about that theme. The central party considers, as SV, the Workers' Party and the Coastal Party, that Oslo Børs cannot be the independent control body in relation to the market actors required by the Directive. We are in favour of not delegating the operational control authority from the credit control to Oslo Stock Exchange. The Centre Party, together with the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, then proposes to investigate the establishment of its own stock control – initially to control national prospectuses, later on, from 2012, when the transitional regime is over, in order to take over all control. The centre party believes this is an important matter. It's about trust in the stock market, and it's a shame the government hasn't done any more work to get such an investigation done in the past. The Financial Committee requested that a share supervision be investigated as early as 2000, in the voting on the Stock Exchange Act. It will be very positive for those who made up the majority at the time, even this time, to vote in favour of this proposal. I would like to promote the proposal of the Coastal Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e240	The representative Morten Lund has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e243	I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on these legal rules that is now being proposed. They will help give us a healthier and more open market. When it comes to the issue where the Committee shares – whether the overall responsibility for the control of prospectuses and operational responsibilities should lie with the credit supervision or be shared between the credit supervision and Oslo Børs – it is possible to have both views. I see well that there are arguments that go in both directions. It is essentially my view that, in any case, new bodies should not be set up when there are sufficient bodies competent to exercise supervision. It would really be my answer to the question of a new stock control body. It's building up new skills where we already have it. I don't see any reason for that. I'm a little surprised that those who otherwise speak against bureaucracy, right here have found that this is a brilliant idea. When we have chosen to share operational responsibility and control, it is because the control of the prospectus is very similar to the control of information flows exercised by Oslo Børs on a daily basis and has sufficient independence to satisfy all parties. It is also expressed in the hearings that all parties are satisfied with the competence of Oslo Stock Exchange as regards the execution of the prospectus control as it is being done today. Then you raise the question, do they have enough independence to control this, and to make corrections? At least they have enough independence to make it maybe even more serious daily, per. hours, to follow in the flow of information, even going to the serious step of stopping the trading of a share if there is suspicion of manipulation. With today's computer systems, this happens very efficiently, and it has given us a much better market. It's a task that really requires independence, because it can have an economic impact on companies far beyond what a prospectus control can have in itself. I think it is a good solution here that operational responsibility has been found in Oslo Børs and the head of the Credit Authority. We have good confidence in both institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e252	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 671]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e268	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 675]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e281	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e289	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the The President will first vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The nodule does not agree with Ot.prp. 53 on the Law on Legal Affairs and the Management of Land and Natural Resources in the State of Finnmark [[2002-2003]] [[findmark law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e356	The President will vote on the motions for resolutions. 4–15, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e1277	First, the paragraphs that the Socialist Left Party has announced during the debate that they will vote against. The party of progress is also opposed. The President shall refer to the paragraphs to which this applies: under Chapter 1: Sections 1, 3, 4 and 5under Chapter 2: Sections 7 to 10 and Sections 15 and 19under Chapter 3: Sections 23, 25 and 27under Chapter 5: § 29 until § 47under Chapter 6: § 50 Changes in other legislation, paragraph 2, Law 30 June 1972 on Mining § 7 a and 22 a
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e1308	The other chapters and paragraphs of the setting are quoted. Here the Socialist Left Party has notified that they support the option. The party of progress is against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e1322	President! The President must note that the Coastal Party voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e1329	Was Mr Bastesen wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e1332	No, but the president did not mention that the Coastal Party wanted to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e1339	Okay. Then it's noted. It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. This is where the Progress Party and the Coastal Party are opposed. The Socialist Left Party supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e1355	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e1365	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e1990	The Progress Party has announced that it will vote against the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e2003	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Here, too, the Progress Party has announced that it is against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e2017	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e2162	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e2172	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e2231	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e2241	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e2303	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e2313	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e2917	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e2927	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e3377	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e3387	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e3395	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Heidi Grande Røys on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party Proposal No. 2, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e3870	We shall then vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In insurance law, the following amendment is made:§ 5-6 new fourth paragraph is replaced by the following:Administrative expenses may not be charged to employees’ contributions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e3963	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e4115	The President has understood that the Progress Party wishes to vote against Section 7-6, first paragraph, third and fourth sentences and fourth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e5456	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e5466	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e5476	C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e5484	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party Proposal No. 2, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coast Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish an arrangement with its own share control to ensure the control of prospectuses and other control tasks in order to strengthen confidence in the share market.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e5558	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2nd from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Securities Trading Act is amended as follows:Sections 5 to 2 are replaced by the following:Sections 5 to 2. Prospectus obligation in the case of an offer to subscribe for or purchase of transferable securities addressed to 100 persons or more in the Norwegian securities market and for an amount of at least EUR 40000 calculated over a period of 12 months, prospectuses shall be drawn up in accordance with the rules laid down in this Chapter. The same applies where an offer is made by a resident of Norway in another EEA State and the prospectus is to be approved in accordance with the provisions of Sections 5 to 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e5752	The President has understood that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party wish to vote against the last paragraph of § 5-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e5876	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2nd from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e6012	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e6022	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e6152	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-05-24-lower-2.ana.ud1009e6162	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
