ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e175	The representatives Rolf Reikvam and Finn Kristian Marthinsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e195	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3043]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e211	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3043]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e227	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party and Center Party 10 minutes each, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e238	It is in the municipalities that the welfare society is created. That's why it's important for municipalities to be able to develop the society that we want Norway to be. I don't deny the challenges we face, but I see that a lot is good – actually very good. So I read in the newspaper that some representatives are very curious about what to say today. They may be disappointed, but for security's sake, they should listen carefully. First, I want to say that I believe in the regime. I believe that long-distance Norway must have both regional and local government. I think those who wear the shoe know best where he prints. I've always believed that. That's why I think the power and the tasks have to be moved out of Oslo, out to local and regional levels. I believe in regional power against state power. I think Norway can be better controlled from below than above. Therefore, it is good that the principle notification of the Norwegian management and management system is handled early in the next period. Good luck with the others. My vision for Kommune-Noreg is that the A4 community will be eliminated. I hope that municipal self-government will be so sovereign that the populace and the inhabitants can take advantage of their comparative advantage without the intervention of the big community. I hope for greater inequality, but that security increases – certainty that a person gets sick home when one needs it, that a person gets care when it is necessary, that there is school nearby, and that postal and infrastructure are in place, osb. I hope we don't need new action plans and earmarked supplements, but I hardly think so. In particular, I believe that we will be short in relation to care for the elderly. The municipalities are not banned from the wave of older people beginning in 2010 and coming in full in 15 years. In fact, I believe that municipalities can build enough institutions and hospitals. We've built everything one to 90 pst., almost to anyone who wants. If the municipalities get freedom, they give priority to the most important thing. But the reality is still going to catch up to us. If we are only to keep up with today's recognised lack of care for everyone, every third youth has to expand and work within the care of the elderly. It's a challenge. The Bondevik II government has ensured that thousands of new jobs have been created in this four-year pillar in the care sector. Health and care have had a major priority. At the same time, we have done our best to strengthen competitiveness in Norwegian business – for the sake of the poor, for the sake of municipalities and for the sake of well-being. But we're going to lack free hands, as I said, hands that can provide care, help, relief and support. These are statistics, this is clear speech. These are consequences of a lifestyle in spite of the laws of life. This is the result of the abortion community. This is the main challenge for the future. There are several – for the Christian People's Party – important system changes that are decided upon during the current ageing period. We've changed the counting time for the population supplement, so that municipalities with rapid growth will actually get paid for the inhabitants they actually have. I'm thinking well when the Christian People's Party, in fact, for the first time this took up five and a half years ago. The ministry, at the time of Sylvia Brustad, said that it was not possible. Now it's done. We've changed the funding of heavy users. I think of all the letters and telephones I got from spokesmen over the quite country about this problem. We need a top funding model, it was said. Now it's done. We've changed the income system to capture expenditure on drugs and psychiatry. It's impossible, asserted more government councils, but now it's done. We have brought back the corporate tax, a programmable claim from the Christian People's Party and a continuing claim for all vocabulary conferences. Now it's done. We've solved the threshold problems of small municipalities when they got too much of a resident. Many small municipalities asked for a smoother transition to the income base when they went from being a municipality of less than 3,000 inhabitants to becoming more than 3,000 inhabitants – a reasonable requirement, and now it is done. The Bondevik II Government promises to increase freedom and reduce the use of funds for municipalities, a requirement of the KS. A lot has been done. Is that what's been done? Yeah, so definitely. I believe that the consultation arrangements between the State and the municipalities must be further developed and made more binding. When Denmark and other countries in our vicinity do this without losing control, I believe it is possible for Norway too. It provides local government with greater possibilities for long-term planning. Then the return claim, the result, is not satisfactory in Kommune-Noreg. It's better than long, but it's 3 pst. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail The government's proposal to the local economy will not lead to dramatic changes, but it's all a little sad. But it also doesn't have multiples, as far as I can read the situation. I would like to congratulate Kommune-Noreg on a lift in the free revenues if the vote were to be like that, that one would vote for what is closest to one's own scheme after own proposals have fallen. But it's not necessarily like that, so this is actually going to be an exciting day. The local authorities are having a hard time. The Christian People's Party considered it alarming that over a hundred municipalities are on the ROBEK list. That's not satisfying. It is good that some have worked through a demanding conversion and gained control of the economy. Well, that's what it's all about. Many municipalities are doing well. The dramatic decline in interest rates has been seen as a better local economy. Billions are saved in municipalities with loans over the whole country. The municipality of Norway has over 80 billion dollars in loans and an interest rate decrease of 4-5 pst. Naturally, it means billion savings every year. That's good. It is important to pursue an economic policy that does not overlook what we have achieved in recent years. There is optimism in business. A tax regime that is competitive with our neighbouring countries, low interest rates and inflation can create a climate of innovation and work for everyone. It is also the most important factor in fighting poverty. The government's tax haven't gone to the companies and created new growth and optimism. The red mantra of treasures to the rich is a deception. The economic policy of the Government is, in fact, a formidable success, and it must be passed on. The government proposal may not have multiples. The municipalities may get $2.5 billion more in free income if there are multiples for anything here today. They may need that. Most Roman decisions are also adopted. Many of them have a reasonable content, if true, and many of them open doors. The government has already started work on this topic. I just want to recommend Roma number I. On my last day at Stortinget’s pulpit – so far, I’m sure I’ll say – I think the interest will be low too next year. I think the deflator we're importing is going to keep inflation down, and the oil price is all hour high. Norway will be able to cope, even with the decisions that are being taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e273	The representative Apelthun Seele is an experienced parliamentarian. In a number of articles here in Stortinget, she has committed herself to ensuring that the welfare of the municipal sector is given good conditions. She has pointed out that the state plays a central role in this context, because it determines the framework under which municipalities are to govern. Today, the representative Apelthun Sæle is spokesman for the Municipal Proposition. In this way, she has a particularly good chance of affecting the outcome of treatment. My question must therefore be: Is the representative of Apelthun Seelele that the Government's approach to the municipal economy is satisfactory in relation to the extensive tasks that the municipalities and county councils will solve in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e280	Every year I've been in this big business, there's been a slight increase in the local economy – a little more every year, a little more tasks, a little more money and a little bigger challenges in some areas. Is this, as I would like to clarify, an increase of NOK 3 to 4 billion in the framework and an increase in the free income of NOK 1.3 to 2.3 billion – I hope that it will be the upper part of this frame, just NOK 2.3 billion more to the municipalities – a satisfactory budget? I think if you look at it from Kommune-Noreg's side, if you're in the municipalities, many people will say no, we need a lot more. But I also think it's to live with. If we slowly but surely build the welfare society we want, and take it a little bit later, we will have a safe economy and slow, but certainly a better Velferds-Noreg.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e287	I understand that the representative Apelthun Seele is a little frustrated today. I thought I would challenge the Christian People's Party and Apelthun Seal in relation to the desire to include ear-marked grants. But I read today in Bergen's Official Journal that the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Steensnæs, owes a debt to the Advance Party when he says: «We wanted an agreement on the local economy and therefore we negotiated with Frp. Frp would close the book. We take note of that, says KrF's parliamentary leader, Einar Steensnæs." My question to Apelthun Seele, with whom I have been negotiating for 14 days, is: Who closed the book, and who did not want to negotiate and get an agreement on the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e297	There are many ear-marked contributions to the local economy in this period, more than anything. There is a lot left to achieve the freedom that we want local communities, democratic peoples and local representatives to have. But that wasn't the question, this was just the introduction. Who's in debt? I have not read Bergen's Official Journal today, but I read Bergen's Official Journal yesterday. I was interviewed myself, and I was asked the same question. I hope the representative Per Sandberg has read what I said. I am not giving the debt of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e304	When the country gets richer, it's a question of how to distribute the wealth. I record with regret that the Christian People's Party has chosen the wrong side, and chooses increased private wealth rather than better well-being. It is also true that the Christian People's Party has unfortunately chosen the wrong side in terms of privatisation and outsourcing. I want to ask a question to the Christian People's Party because they've had a long tradition of understanding what care is. The care soul jumps out of something other than that one can numerically attach to a paper and set a price on it. It jumps out of a social relationship between the one in need of help and the one in need of help. Now there's an ideological struggle about the mind of care, and it's about the outsourcing of competition. Competitive outsourcing involves standardisation, pricing and counting, while the mind of care suffers and is lost in this game. Why does the Christian People's Party choose to destroy what has been at the heart of care?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e311	I am pleased that the representative from SV acknowledges that the Christian People's Party has a tradition and a history that allows us to understand the basis on which care is based. I agree with the representative that care cannot be counted in dollars and cents. It is in human relations care happens. If the person in need of help isn't getting help from another person, it's not care. But I'm completely disagreed with the representative when she says that public care is better than private care. In fact, most of the care done in this country is private. It happens at home in relation to children, it happens at school, some are publicly added and some are added to private schools. I do not agree that postponing competition is something that reduces care. On the contrary, we get more care for the money when we put it on the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e316	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e320	Around our country, many people are very interested in what is happening in the debate we are now holding. First of all, the leading people elected in municipalities and county councils are looking at the Stortinget and the municipal committee's position on the municipal economy for next year. In turn, this is a debate that is very much about the conditions for a very large number of citizens. Here we are discussing in practice the welfare of our municipalities. Will there be enough money to train children and young people? What kind of care for the elderly are we going to have around the country? Should it be at a level that provides a decent care for those who have labored for many years at their place of work and who now need care and care? Or should municipalities reduce the level and quality of care for the elderly? The question you are asking may seem to remove too many questions at a high political level. For the child who does not receive a defensive training, or for the nursing woman who does not receive satisfactory care, these are harsh realities. It's here in the house we decide in which direction evolution is going to go. We decide the course to follow, whether or not the public services will be of good quality. The Labour Party will pursue a policy that will allow municipalities to be a crumble in the provision of welfare services. Municipalities shall provide equivalent services. That's our value choice. In addition, municipalities should be the guarantor of political governance of welfare, not market-driven. A decisive condition for this to happen is that the economy of municipalities and counties is satisfactory. It is an expressed objective of the Government to increase the use of competition in the local government sector. Moreover, it is pointed out that there is a large untapped potential in relation to supply competition. The government also states that with the financial framework established for 2006, it will be necessary to continue the work on conversion and efficiency. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for conversion in the municipal sector. This work needs to be continuously run to provide the best possible service to its inhabitants and to add a good working environment. Development work must be carried out in close cooperation with the added and their organisations. Care and training tasks should not be treated as a product that can be placed on the market. For the Workers' Party, it is decisive that they do not have to be weakened as a result of the outsourcing of public services. I would like to point out that efficiency does not have to go beyond the quality of the provision provided by the municipality. Change and development must focus on quality development, new cooperation relations, skills building and productivity improvements through active involvement of those added. This is how the Labour Party is its policy in this area. He stands in clear contrast to the Government's line, one-sided focus of competition and privatisation. There are many examples of people in need of help and care. Unfortunately, if we're going to take the municipal sector on the pulse today, it's not a bright picture. Every day for many municipalities is difficult, sometimes very difficult. The government has no hope of finding a solution. Currently there is an economic imbalance in the municipal sector. There is no match for the tasks to be solved and the resources to be allocated. The Central Association of Municipalities has been demonstrating this for a long time. For this reason, a plan between the State and the local government sector analysing the actual situation has been proposed. This claim has been rejected by the Government. The party of progress has agreed to this view. The Labour Party believes that an obligatory plan on the financial imbalances in municipalities and county municipalities must be developed. Then there must be a task for the Storting over a few years to grant permission so much that the local government sector comes out of the economic misery he is currently living in. Before that happens, there will be no peace around this matter. The representative of the Stortingsretten Apelthun Seele may also have realised this, for she has stated the following to the Official Journal of Bergen: ‘I challenge... the government to enter into a binding agreement with the Local Governments’ Central Association with a view to eliminating this sub-covery.’ [[KS]] The message from the case-speaker, Apelthun Seele, has clearly fallen on rock bottoms. Government council Solberg stands firm in his opinion. The Government Party and the Advance Party shall provide her with the necessary back coverage. Technical estimation shows that the deficit in the local government sector before loan transactions was DKK 12 billion at the end of 2004. It's just a little bit better than the previous year, but it's a very skinny comfort. The material presented shows that the deficit in municipalities and county municipalities has been unusually high in recent years. The government must take full responsibility for that. The economic situation in the municipalities has deteriorated significantly under the Government of Bondevik II. Now is 26 pst. of the municipalities placed under State control. It tells a lot about the economic situation in the municipal sector. Never before has the number of municipalities with heavy economic problems been so high. In More and Romesdal, 13 municipalities are placed under administration. In the Nordic region, the number is actually the same. Of course, this matter has a financial side. But she certainly also has a democratic dimension. The consequence of what happens is that the county, which is a state bureaucrat, has the decisive word for determining the budget, investment and operation of these municipalities. The people elected, with the spokesman in the head, must play the second violin. The spokesman is elected by the people. It's certainly not the county. The well-being of many municipalities is under strong pressure. It frameworks the provision of elderly people with a high level of care. The money problems in municipalities also lead to poor training for the elephants. The students who are most in need of support, guidance and active follow-up will be the hardest frame. That's critical. Political action is now needed to improve the economy of the municipal sector. The Labour Party rejects the government's financial arrangements for the municipalities and county councils for the next year. We believe that funds for the municipal sector must increase significantly. The working party proposes that the growth of free revenues in 2006 be set at DKK 4.8 billion. It will give a substantial gain to all municipalities and county councils in relation to their government plans. Students can receive better training. The quality of parental care is increasing. The key point for many municipalities is this: public welfare is very difficult to keep, because resources are not coming. In turn, this could lead to poorer quality of public services. Then the arena is open to private solutions. If the municipalities are fed economically, provide a basis for launching competition and privatisation. Such a policy will be countered by the Labour Party. In this area, there is a fundamental distinction between the government party and the Progress Party on one side and the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party on the other. The working party opposed the introduction of the system of VAT compensation in 2004. In our view, this was essentially a measure to promote privatisation. When the scheme was introduced, we have been concerned that there will be an overview of the extraction and compensation of all municipalities and counties. This material must be submitted to the State budget for 2006, when the accounting figures are available. The Labour Party believes that the municipalities and county councils that have received too large an extension must have a return as soon as possible. Accordingly, those who have received more compensation than they should have had have had to pay back to the social security fund. I refer to the configuration of the Committee at this point, where a 'possible redistribution' of resources will be ordered. Once such a careful formulation has been chosen, it is because we have not yet been able to access the accounting figure. But there are clear indications that the scheme has not worked fairly, either between municipalities or between municipalities and municipalities. The majority in Stortinget believes that it must be cleaned up in this matter in the current year. The government must follow up. Some municipalities have particularly high costs for resource-required users. A new financial instrument from 2004 has been put in place which clearly increased the country’s obligations in this area. It was a right policy course. Nevertheless, there are enough municipalities that have unreasonably high expenditures in this area. Our municipality in Hedmark and Jevnaker municipality in Uppland can be such an example. In the 2006 government budget, the government must assess the arrangements for resource-required users and ensure that these municipalities can obtain additional means of discretion in order to get the most out of the money. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e367	The representative, Mr. Reidar Sandal, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e372	For the Labour Party, the municipal sector is an important provider of welfare services and there is a cross-political recognition that there is an imbalance between tasks and resources in the municipal sector. That is why the Christian People's Party also wants to give municipalities a real growth in income in the years to come. Another issue related to this is the distribution between municipalities, which will be challenging. My concern and the concern of the Christian People's Party particularly concerns the small municipalities, who need a more differentiated policy, a policy that differentiates between incomes and tasks in the small municipalities. We need a small community policy. Income is one challenge. Another thing is to keep track of the expenses. There has been a general criticism from the municipal sector that they are assigned new tasks without sufficient funding. It imposes a responsibility on this house, including the Workers' Party. [[The President clubs.]] Later today, we are going to discuss a reform that goes to school food.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e381	Then you're going to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e384	I'll do that. My question is, can the Workers' Party guarantee that new tasks will be fully compensated?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e389	To the representative Lyngstad, I would like to say that the Labour Party is taking on the challenge of the state imposing many tasks on the municipalities, and that one has not always been as good as sending money. We believe that the Stortinget must be very clear that when the local government sector receives new tasks, funding should be included. We're making an active contribution to that. It is our policy in time that comes as well. So talk to the representative Lyngstad about the distribution of money and tasks. I would say that what is disappointing is that the Christian People's Party, which has verbally stated earlier that one is busy with this, has failed when the distribution policy has been on the agenda of the Stortinge in this period. I hope that there may be better times later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e396	The representative Sandal and the Workers' Party continue to spread their depressing and pessimistic message about how wrong everything is in the municipality sector in Norway. In fact, we also see in the Progress Party that there are several things in the municipal sector that can be improved for the better. But then there are limits to brushing out a distorted picture of reality, as the Workers' Party has unfortunately had a habit of doing in dealing with the municipal proposition in recent years. In 2004, Norway was designated by the United Nations — perhaps for the third time — as the world’s best country to live in. Then I have to ask: do I understand the Labour Party correctly, that they believe that the UN conclusion that Norway is the world's best country to live in is an all-wish conclusion? When I hear the representative Sandal's pessimistic and sad presentation of the state of things in the Norwegian municipal sector, that must be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e403	I can reassure Andersen's representative that both my personal mood and the Labour Party's political mood is good. I want to say that we don't present a distorted image, but we're trying to take the pulse on what's the situation in the municipality of Norway. I note that the assessments I have expressed here in relation to their overarching development have been endorsed by progressive party politicians both in municipalities and in county municipalities around the country. Then it's also that the Workers' Party has a general social critical view. It's necessary to have that. When we see trends and trends in society not moving in the right direction, we have to be willing to adjust the rate. So let's do that. Therefore, we need to invest more money on welfare in the municipalities and municipalities in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e410	The working party, the Senterpartiet and SV are united about a great deal in the local economy. We very much agree on the value priorities and direction. I want to grasp some of what Sandal said in his post, namely that it is important that there is consistency between tasks and responsibilities. SV is very concerned about it, because the story shows, as Sandal also sail says, that it hasn't always been like that. This is the background to one of the proposals that SV is promoting today, namely that we should set up a separate grant linked to educational resources to follow up the new curricula that are now being adopted. The government has not been able to explain to us how much it will cost. That means it's hard to estimate a number. SV therefore suggests, in order to make the sum visible and to guarantee that the government takes the bill, that we put it in an earmarked grant and allocate it according to the principles of the income system. Then there will be no division between the municipalities. Why does the Labour Party not want to support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e417	I agree with Andersen's representative in the description she gives of the relationship between the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. I'm glad we're giving a very strong signal in the attitude of the municipal committee that we have a common political course on important issues. That's a good promise. When it comes to the question of the teaching material that follows from the change that will take place in the base of next year, I, like the representative Andersen, am greatly dissatisfied with the government's handling of that matter. A number of questions have been asked to the Government about how to plan funding, and what is the cost for 2006. It has not been possible to clarify. The main response from the government is that one should provide a clarification in connection with the budget of the autumn. We thought it would be good to have that overview before we finally take a position on how this should be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e424	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e428	For the Right, it is important to continue to work to provide security for homes, homes and jobs. We want to secure and create jobs, and we want to strengthen the welfare of the individual. We are now looking into the matter of the government's policy. The pessimism of business has turned to optimism. The family economy is better than for a long time. The number of households with payment problems is halved in the last two years, showing SIFO figures. This is the lowest figure measured in 20 years. When the red-green talks, it doesn't sound like that. But it is a fact that Municipality Norway also enjoys the good times. The black paint that the opposition sometimes conducts shoots far beyond the target, in my opinion. The municipalities have had the strongest income growth since 1997. In 2004, the growth was over DKK 7 billion. In 2005, the growth was DKK 4 billion. The progress of Kommune-Norge will continue in 2006. The financial structure of the municipal bill implies a real growth in the total income of the municipal sector of between 2 and 3 billion kroner next year. There will always be new demands and needs in the municipalities, and from our side we have arranged to meet the needs of the municipalities because, in addition to the growth of income, we have increased the space for action. The historically low level of interest rates is very important for a municipal sector with a high level of debt. Moreover, there has been a small price increase, and there has been moderate wage growth. In order to meet the needs of school buildings and more kindergartens, we have facilitated favourable loan arrangements and investment support. Of the total investment framework for school facilities of DKK 15 billion for the period 2002-2009, already DKK 10 billion has been phased in. A new billion is granted in the revised version. The 2005 budget provides for a similar system for church buildings. In particular, we have adopted a tax reform that allows municipalities to increase income by allowing them to retain more of the corporate tax itself. In total, the action space of municipalities has become both larger and more flexible. Information on the activities of the local government sector shows that 72 pst. among children aged 1–5 years, there was a nursery place in 2004. This is equivalent to 20,000 more places than in 2001. The number of beneficiaries in care services has increased slightly in recent years, and the number of students, both in primary and secondary schools, has increased in the current period — this while resource use per year. students have been stable. The economic balance of municipalities is, as a whole, significantly better today than that of former Heads of Government. The blackness of the local economy by the socialists is also not reflected in the population. The municipal surveys in 2003 and 2004 show that the population, in particular the users, is largely satisfied with the municipal services, and they are the ones for which municipal services should be provided. This is in line with the Right Policy. The focus shall be primarily on the needs of users and on the quality of the various services. Whoever performs the services is subordinate and should be able to compete for the benefit of it. To the extent that one gets more quality out of each krona by postponing services to competition or by making them more efficient, it should be done simply because it provides more well-being for the money paid by the inhabitants in tax. Studies now show that people think they get more money back than the case was a year ago. In other words, welfare is not being built down. The government was also paying twice as much on welfare as on tax relief. One example is the State funding mechanism for particularly resource-intensive users, as also Reidar Sandal mentioned in his statement. This scheme allows citizens with a high level of care needs to receive satisfactory municipal services. The municipalities cover the first 725,000 kroner. In addition, the State covers 80 pst. of local government expenditure. In the past, municipalities had to cover everything themselves. So over the course of this four-year period, we have introduced a reform that has an incredibly positive effect on individuals, regardless of where they live, and on the municipalities, which are receiving considerable aid from the state. It means a lot to us in the Right that citizens are offered equivalent services of good quality and with good availability, adapted to individual and local needs. That is also why we are putting forward a policy that strengthens local democracy and increases municipal freedom of action. We do that by decentralizing tasks, authority and responsibility. By shifting responsibilities to policy bodies, almost the population is reinforced by the possibility of active user adaptation and user involvement. So a little bit about the priorities within the proposed framework. In the context of the growth of the total revenue for 2006, we find funds for the nursery sector. We'll find funds for the psychetry escalation plan. We find new teaching materials in primary school and free income. Between 1.3 and 2.3 billion dollars of total revenue growth will come as free resources. In one area, the Government itself proposes to postpone the inclusion of earmarked grants. The government is working to make room for all children who want it in kindergarten, and this must take precedence over further reductions in kindergarten rates. It is therefore quite appropriate to propose to postpone the inclusion of earmarked operating grants and investment grants to kindergartens until 1 January 2007, pending full childcare coverage. This will ensure stable and predictable framework conditions even in the final phase of development, which, as it now stands, may occur at the end of 2006. In the right, we are concerned that the main objectives of the kindergarten agreement are maintained, not least by how a common, equivalent funding for private and public kindergartens should work. This is an area that we from the right-hand side want to focus all the time. Moreover, we are pleased that the Government wants to continue to work to integrate the earmarked grants into the municipality's free income. A total of 57 million grants. kr is proposed for inclusion in 2006 and will contribute to an increase in the share of free revenues within the overall income framework. KS clearly announces that designation should cease. It is all the more surprising that the opposition joins together and peaces the designation in several areas. This clearly reduces the area of action of the municipalities and reduces flexibility. One does not have to be a fortune - teller or a fortune - teller to see that we are facing major challenges in the coming years. I'm not just talking about money. I am talking about increased competition in labour and skills, greater expectations from citizens to service provision, demographic development, adaptation to new technologies and limited financial resources. In particular, this will be challenging for the many small municipalities, and it will be essential that municipalities are adaptable and have the capacity for innovation. In the Right’s view, the solution lies in a more robust and forward-looking municipal structure. Many municipalities have taken developments seriously and obtained good results. However, there are still large differences between municipalities. It is therefore essential that the development and conversion work continue. My conclusion was the coin of the municipal work in relation to the economic situation and not primarily the municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e459	Right-wing claims that the municipal sector should have good framework conditions. Right will strengthen the municipalities, both as service producers and as a democratic arena. This is an ambitious goal. Nevertheless, we see that a large number of municipalities cut their budgets. The last week we saw that Nome municipality, which is in the representative Holmberg's own county, had to cut 4 million. kr. We see a cut in well-being. We see the additions being cancelled, and some municipalities are budgeting even with deficits. The representative Holmberg boasts of real growth in the municipal sector. Yes, the Government proposes an increase in free income in the range of SEK 1.3 to 2.3 billion. This covers only demographic developments. Does the representative Holmberg, former spokesperson in Skien admit that the municipal sector is underfunded, or is the representative satisfied that most municipalities still have to cut their welfare supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e466	As I said in my post, the municipal sector will always have challenges. It will always be the wishes and needs of a population. What's the main point is that we, regardless of the party, have to work to improve the conditions in the municipalities. That's what our government has been doing for four years now. These four years we have had the largest income growth in the municipal sector since 1997. The great deficits, the rapporteur's insurrections that we saw earlier, came under the regime of the former Heads of Government – the Jagland government and others. Then the municipalities had a huge deficit that they have made. We have now tried to restore the balance year after year, and we see that it gets better. We see that conditions in the municipal sector are better, and the space for action is larger. One thing is the transfer of money. Another thing is the increase in the room of action, and that probably means so much to the community sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e473	Year after year, this government has focused on and put on itself a goal of strengthening local democracy. Then they have used the inclusion of earmarked funds as an argument that it is the only way to get local democracy, or that municipalities should have a greater decision-making base. I would like to ask the representative Holmberg: what is left of earmarked funds to be incorporated, which will significantly strengthen the decision-making base of municipalities and local democracy? I don't care what goes on at camp schools and small amounts, 10 million. I'll give you $10 million. kr there, and the kindergartens. I would rather focus my attention on the proposals No. 4, paragraph 11 and Nos 12 from the Progress Party, which would have really strengthened local democracy, and which the Right will vote against. What is it now to strengthen local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e480	Over the years, we've had a number of ear-marked areas in the municipal sector. Initially, it binds the municipality in unreasonable areas. It may be that the municipality has already done an excellent job in an area and cannot avail itself of the money that the state has earmarked. In this four-year period, we wanted to cancel and change it. We've come along well. In many areas the ringing has gone away, and the flexibility of the municipality has become much greater. I can agree that it's not the largest areas that are left, except for the kindergarten area, but we're getting along very well. But this case is equally important for the future. Now the KS has finally arrived that they support the Government and say it is good that the designation disappears. They didn't say that before. Now it is so far, and it is important that in the future no government reforms are being made with earmarked funds, because it binds the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e487	In the right, you know what you want to hear, not what you don't like to hear. The representative Holmberg now makes a large number of 57 million. kr to be included, of earmarked grants, while she refuses to listen to KS actually ask for NOK 4.1 billion more to do their tasks, to be able to maintain quality, as the representative Holmberg says. The representative Holmberg refers to the government's proposals, where, when it comes to measuring school efficiency, one chooses to look at the characteristics of Norwegian, math and English against the number of teaching hours and clearly sets it as a good measure of both efficiency and quality. I would like to ask the representative Holmberg: Is it so that the local authority sector will have a significantly larger room for action by that these 57 million. kr is included, rather than if you had listened to KS’ wish to get SEK 4.1 billion more, so that you could have given a quality offer and freedom of choice, which users actually deserve?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e496	There's a lot of ways to ask questions. Municipalities are dependent on transfers of income, but the possibility of action spaces and flexibility is also essential for municipalities. It is the two elements that are absolutely crucial. We're talking about KS in this context. We've had consultation arrangements with the KS in these years, and we've drawn close to each other. That's why we've had the big growth in free income in the last few years. When KS now asks for additional billions and points to maintenance needs, I have to say that maintenance has always been the responsibility and task of the municipalities. We also have to remember that 80-90 pst. by the municipalities, this task is an excellent one and has given priority to it as a matter of priority. But there are some municipalities that have neglected their maintenance responsibilities. But it is and has been a municipal task. The best thing we can do for municipalities is to create a balance, and we do that with an increase on the income side, but also with more room for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e507	The cord shift is over. Per Sandberg now gets the word for an ordinary post, in 10 minutes or about there.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e512	Thank you, President. I'll try to stay around there. Economy is usually most focused when we talk about municipalities. I actually agree with a lot of what the government says in its proposition, and I also agree with a lot of what has been said by the representatives of the government parties. The problem in the municipal sector is that we have a structure with 433 municipalities, which have 433 different political constellations in their bodies, which are different priorities, and therefore we have different situations in 433 municipalities. That's really what it's all about, whether or not we're going to accept here on the house that there are differences between these 433 municipalities. Here I have some problems understanding in particular the red-green option, which will unlimitedly transfer billions of dollars to these 433 municipalities, even though the red-green option also knows – it is my impression that they have expressed that they know it, but they know of course – that within these 433 municipalities there are a number of municipalities, some of them many municipalities, which have overwhelmingly good finances. So with the system that the red-green option wants, uncritically transferring billions to these 433 municipalities, the differences will increase. The differences will have to increase. The party of progress looked at the scheme presented by the Government, which was useful when it came to economics. That is why we entered into negotiations with the government parties here on the house with a view to staying within the framework that the government itself presented. We regret that we were almost rejected by the Government. I'm putting emphasis on the Government. The reason why we wanted to secure the upper framework was what the Government itself points out, that within the growth of NOK 2-3 billion for 2006, which the Government provided, there was a focus on the kindergarten sector, a stepping-up plan for psychiatry, new teaching materials in primary school and free income. Initially, this growth that the government claimed they would deposit would be exhausted if the government and the government council, Solberg, were to aim for a free income of SEK 1.3 billion. Based on the outcome of the negotiations, I have understood that the Government wanted a maximum increase in free revenues of NOK 1.3 billion. If that's not what they wanted, they had no reason to stop the negotiations with the Progress Party. Local democracy is about accepting differences. The progress is distinguished by the fact that we do not accept differences in the primary services. We do not accept that the municipality of Tromsø, which is run by SV and the Workers' Party, prioritises cultural houses rather than older people and schools. We do not accept that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party in the local government around give priority to cultural houses rather than the elderly and the school. That's why we want the state to steer the incomes of care for the elderly and school more closely through the price of a piece. Only then can we ensure a good and even offer of primary health services in the municipalities. We do not say that the municipalities will stop delivering. What we're saying is -- actually, the same thing as some people in the red-green option try to express, but with us there's a guarantee -- that these problems have to be solved by the state taking 100 pst. of the financing. We believe that the signals that this government gives, and the focus it has on earmarking, turn the debate away from the challenges. Integrating 57 million. kr or to include the nursery allowance will have nothing to say for the action room of the 433 municipalities – nothing. If one is to do something about the action space of the municipalities, the Progress Party today has three proposals which are being discussed and which would have had a significant impact on the action space for the municipal sector. That is proposal No. 4, that is proposal No. 11 and that is proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox But these proposals don't get a single voice from any of the other parties. Not even from the Center Party do we get votes when we talk about what is going to develop and strengthen local democracy. Giving municipalities more space for action is not about funds. It is largely about frameworks and regulations. I believe that the financial framework for the municipal sector in general is more than good enough today. But as long as we do not adopt our primary approach, we need to be part of and strengthen the economy in general – blindly – and thus we are also involved in creating differences. We can also look at the municipality of Os now, as I believe has a really good case. They've put a stop to their escape. Why? Because they have a separate account that confirms that government orders for the settlement of refugees give us extra costs of between 4 and 5 million. kr. Therefore, the Progress Party says: This arrangement needs to be changed so that the state takes 100 pst. of the financing. Neither have the other parties. We want to increase the grant to NOK 525,000 over seven years, but we've been voted down on that, and we don't see any reason to repeat it over and over again. The representative Sandal said, "Elderly care will be of significantly better quality in better economics." No, the opposite is proven. A number of large, strong worker-participating municipalities have significantly strengthened the economy. Tromsø kommune and Trondheime kommune have received a significant increase in their frameworks, but the Arbeiderpartiet and SV kutter still belong to the care of the elderly and the school. So it's not related, what Sandal here claims. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the desire that there be an agreement between government, large-scale and local government in order to balance the local economy. It's kind of interesting that KS in this context has said yes, if we get such an agreement, we also have to make it more effective for half a billion. A little bit strange -- I call it a little blackmail. So KS shows that there's an efficiency potential, but to take it out, they're going to have to pay for it. It doesn't belong in other contexts. Where there is a potential for efficiency improvement, it shall be taken out. President, 10 minutes isn't much, and I promised that I'll try to stay around there. I would also refer to another aspect of the ‘bad economy’ in the municipal sector. There is some look-up today: Best year since 1997, significant improvement in the net operating surplus of the municipality. Cherries: Jerdisiplin produced results. – I could refer to a number of suggestions of that type. This is going the right way. I also think, as many people have been talking about earlier here today, that it is time to spread some optimism and focus on lighting points around the municipalities, instead of constantly painting black, black-painting, black-painting. And to make one more look today that I also think was interesting: a small municipality in central Norway – I won't tell who it's run by, I don't have to say it when there's a trombone layer, because there are the municipalities largely run by a few parties – have now decided to build an ice hall. The municipality is running short. As I said, I should not say who controls that municipality, but this is about priority. The framework arrangement of the Progress Party today should be endorsed – unless it is strange. I would just like to end by promoting the proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e552	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e557	The representative Sandberg later, as if it were very good around the municipality of Norway. That's not right. In my local way, it says: fewer hospitals. The municipality doesn't have town halls, and we're talking about the municipality lacking money. Then I have a question for the representative: The Progress Party believes that the municipalities need an increased framework for the next year, and the Labour Party agrees. We believe that there must be consistency between the tasks that the municipalities have to do, and the money that they have at their disposal. This does not follow up with the Government. It still means cut in welfare, and there won't be any good news for most people. The party wants to call itself the party most. But the Progress Party does not agree with the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party that we need a plan for the creation of this major imbalance, and the party will vote against our proposal. Does this mean that the Progress Party believes that there is consistency between the tasks the municipalities have to do and the money they receive in transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e564	In fact, I think in my main post I showed that in general it is very good at economics in the municipal sector. Of course, there are some municipalities that come out poorly, but it is because of an income system with which the Workers' Party is burdened and broken, which distorts the income of the municipalities. The working party is behind an income system that provides some municipalities with twice as much income as comparable municipalities, which is why it is distorted. I also tried to refer to that in my main post. Yes, we have a proposal for an increased framework, NOK 1.5 billion. At the same time, KS says there's an efficiency potential of 500 million. kr. If there is an efficiency potential of 500 million. kr, and municipalities get an increase of SEK 1.5 billion in addition to what the Government proposes, i.e. NOK 4.5 billion, in 2006 will substantially be a new, good year for the local government sector. But if that's the income system the Labour Party wants to do something about, we'd like to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e571	It is nice that Per Sandberg’s representative develops efficiency improvements and efficiency gains in municipalities – there are many of them. However, it is funny to see that the Progress Party is now moving towards further incorporation of earmarked grants. Is it flexibility and efficiency that the Progress Party is concerned when it leads to increased reports to the Ministry when it leads to increased control in the Ministry of Municipalities, when it leads to new regulations and rules? Is there any efficiency or better use of the money when the Riksrevision goes into each case, for each denomination? Or is the Progress Party concerned that this reinforces that those who have good advice are allowed to use the earmarked grants, and that those who have bad advice are unfortunately not able to apply for the earmarked schemes that exist? No, this leads to less flexibility; it locks up money in the sector that you might want to streamline, because efficiency will result in earmarked grants not being paid because you spend less money in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e576	I should almost have asked in 10 minutes, there were many questions. My response to this challenge is: the Progress Party wants to earmark or have state-wide price funding on the main tasks, what is important, health, the elderly and school. In addition to that, municipalities will be allowed to do whatever they want, based on the income they earn, they will be allowed to do whatever they want. But I'm going to give an example of why the Progress Party is against inclusion in some areas. In 2003, the Workers' Party and the Government introduced a earmarked grant for care for drug users into some institutions. What's going on? Well, these people, young people who are on the sidelines of Norwegian society, who are outside, don't get an offer, because the municipalities don't prioritize buying places for them. That kind of thing doesn't accept the Progress Party. That's why we want a ear tag, to make sure these people get the offer they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e581	First, I would like to say that it is quite remarkable that the Progress Party does not know that when large organisations and large private companies change, they need an economic pot to get started, in order to make the changes that make it possible to take out an efficiency potential. But I'll leave it. I will go to the ideology of the Progress Party, which is that most things should be earmarked, and, as the leader of the Advance Party tends to say, the money should come automatically. One might wonder how to control the economy, which the Progress Party is obviously concerned about, but the Progress Party does not follow up on what they say in practical policy. In today's vote there are proposals from SV, among others. on the earmarking of teaching material for the new textbooks that the school must have. The party of progress is against it. We also have a proposal, together with the Centre Party, to lower the municipal proportion of the top-level funding scheme for particularly heavy users. It is users who should not be subject to discretion, but who fail in the Progress Party. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e586	I fully understand that Karin Andersen does not in any way understand what the priorities the Progress Party is doing, because they are as far away from what SV initially wants. Of course, we don't go in and we don't label material and trifles to individual institutions. We mean that we fund the place for a student, and then each institution finds out what kind of material and what kind of governance they want in each institution. It should be easy to understand. As far as resource-intensive users are concerned, there has been an ongoing campaign for the Progress Party. We have realised that we have not achieved goals, and we have lost in relation to our mandatory desire for full state funding in terms of resource-intensive users. We have realized that, and neither has SV been involved, since we have been together on this before, but unfortunately we did not get in terms of that. But if SV wants to take up that fight, we will be loaded and broken with them if the red-green option promotes that proposal after the fall elections. I don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e593	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e596	SV believes that there is a need to strengthen the free income of the local economy by between 4,5 and 5,5 billion kroner in addition to the government's arrangements. We do that because we believe that we should have a modern and good school in Norway, that care, care and child protection should be there when you need help, and that the quality of what we do in the public sector should be full of standards in society around us. There are considerable differences between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy in how we will prioritize welfare, school and care. The right-hand side believes that if we spend less money at school and care, we will get even more people who already have a lot of money and Norway will be richer. It's a deep disagreement. Norway has become richer, and if we look at the figures from recent years, private consumption has increased by 4.3 pst. in 2004, in 2005 by 4.1 pst. and in 2006 it is estimated to be 3 pst., while public consumption will only increase by 2 pst. in 2004, 1.7 pst. in 2005 and only 1 pst. in 2006. Then the differences increase, and the standard of the community that is so infinitely important to us is being reduced and suspended. This is a right-hand strategy that wants privatisation and outsourcing. One wants the public sector to appear to be something different. Has it improved in the municipal sector? The government claims it. Yes, the local government sector received a one-off budget commitment last year. Of course, it helped in the acute situation, and many municipalities could then put some of their emergency plans in the drawer. But that sum of money has not been carried forward this year, nor until next year. In addition, there are many municipalities that have cut services and cut much more than what is good. Therefore, there is a presentation of the situation that SV does not agree with, when the government says that the situation in the municipal sector has improved. There are fewer elderly people over 80 who are now receiving home help or being accommodated in a nursing home than before, and the government claims that it is due to the fact that the elderly have become healthier. Yeah, I suppose so! In the municipalities I know, there are – or, to put it this way, people in line for a place in the hospital and for home help. In fact, it is a simple choice of values for SV when we say that we are prioritizing the use of growth in the future to strengthen the welfare of the elderly and of the children. These are important challenges ahead of us. SV will keep what we have promised regarding the nursery contract. That's why we're adding the increase that's going to be, as an earmarked grant, to implement maximum price 2 in our scheme. We are pleased that the Arbeiderparteit, SV and the Zenterpartei now agree that grants for kindergartens should not be included until maximum price 2 has been put in place and you have had a children's garden space for everyone. Then we agree that such a change can happen. SV will point to the large extra costs that the municipal sector will have for the introduction of new textbooks, as a result of new curricula. Based on what happened at the time of the introduction of the L97, the government estimates that this will cost at least NOK 2 billion, and then it's a little strange that this should happen within such a small increase in the free income as what's inside today. SV wants the Stortinget and the Government to undertake that this money is to be fully financed by the State. You want to contribute it to your own grant, but the money is to be distributed as if they were part of the free income. One of the major welfare challenges we face in today's society, which is also a major challenge for society as a whole, is related to what is called inclusive working life. The municipal sector is the largest employer we have. How do we manage to work with this important area, like, for example, Are we going to make sure that people who have reduced their health get a job to do? We have asked the Government during the treatment of the municipal bill: Have you taken this into account? Does anyone know what it's like in the municipal sector? And we've got a very depressing response from the Government: No, you haven't checked whether you can recruit people who are out of work in the municipal sector. No, you haven't checked if you can keep your seniors. On the contrary, the Government writes that there is so little evidence to suggest that the government's follow-up to the IA agreement has contributed to the entry of more disabled people into the labour market, and that it is going the wrong way. Moreover, when they are so concerned with measuring effectiveness, the projects they have set up to measure effectiveness do not assess effectiveness in the light of the IA main objectives 2 and 3, which require more people outside the labour market to get to work and the seniors to be able to work. That means that the government has a scheme for the local economy that does not address the biggest economic and welfare policy challenges we have in today's society, that is, that those who need and want a job can have opportunities to get it, and that we should have a work life that does not push people out. This must, of course, be given room in the local economy, because people have to work somewhere. Now the local government around the country is asked to find someone to quit, or something to make it more efficient and decommissioned. That means that the municipalities are not first in line now to offer jobs to people who have poor health, but who need a job to go to. SV is concerned that users of municipal services should have an influence on how they are treated and that they should be given the opportunity to say something about their own situation when they become in need of help. Right goes to the choice of what they call ‘choice and user involvement’, but SV seems that before they shower too much with the springs, they might be able to ensure that people actually get a sick home when they need it, and enough hours to help when they need it. It will, but it won't right! They can't afford this good community economy. Now – or rather lies – people are in line, and many receive too little help. Then it's pretty stupid to talk about freedom of choice. Freedom of choice is good. SV will make freedom of choice real, take more account of how much help the individual needs, how hours are to be spent, and that you have the opportunity to complain if the offer is bad. This is too small today, and so is not the case with the Right’s ‘freedom of choice’. In Oslo you can now choose to wash the floor in private, if you have been granted such help. Privates may be allowed to provide ancillary services. It is, of course, nice for those who have a lot of money. It feels positive, but the municipal service is not allowed in right-hand Oslo. If you can organize this with a few helpers around the individual, so you know that there aren't 35 different people with one coming into the shower, yes, why can't right-wing Oslo organize their home service in the same way? It's obviously right to do it this way. It is obvious that many older people need to have more influence on whether they need to wash their floors, go to the store or want to do something else. What is the reason why you don't do this in the municipalities you're running, if you think it's right? Unfortunately, the reality is that there are too few hours to do so, and that they are strictly controlled by the municipal services, so that they appear to be rigid and old-fashioned, while increasing the scope for private services, so that they appear attractive, especially for those who can afford to pay for the extra services. The freedom of choice with regard to the sick place also sounds nice, but I think the Right and the Government are now going to stop fooling people that they want to make sure that. That would mean that we had to have a lot of vacant places in nursing homes around the country, because otherwise people could not choose. It is obvious that older people should be allowed to choose a nursing home near where they live, if possible. But having a lot of sick homes standing empty, so that people should be able to choose this as if it were a normal hotel room, is little efficient use of money and health professionals, of whom there is too little today. It's light-years from the reality that's in the municipal sector today. In practice, the Government puts efficiency and savings far beyond the choice of choice for old and nurturing. There are now municipalities that solve the needs of the elderly for personal hygiene by showering only every three weeks, instead, as most of us do every day or every two days. The problem is that these municipalities get praise from the Right and the Government to be effective. It's probably efficient in an economic sense, but in the SV's view, this is destitution and the opposite of freedom. The government indicates that some municipalities are more effective than others. For example, when they are required to demonstrate this, they show that: to the NTNU report. There, school effectiveness is measured by measuring carats in Norwegian, math and English against the number of teaching hours. It is a summary measure of efficiency that is inadequate and completely incompatible with a modern quality school. For example, the school structure in this report is considered to be quite voluntary, and it is a bit funny when you look at the country we have, and also at capital expenditure related to schools such as the Netherlands. are used empty or poorly, if you think that you would gather all the students in one school in all municipalities. When the municipal sector gets its mark and its tastes because they want to keep a decentralised school structure, as many municipalities want because it's a good thing, they're told: well, you get it, but it's not very effective, and you get to pay the bill. In parallel with this, the Government has introduced a funding system for private schools that maintains and rewards the inefficient school structure that the Government does not tolerate allowing the municipal sector to retain. If a private school is set up where the municipality has had to lay down, it will automatically get its money from the Government, regardless of whether this is effective or not. This says something about that this is a value choice and is not about quality or local maritime governance. We have received many serious signals from municipalities about the conditions of psychiatric patients. Therefore, SV has proposed that we review the situation in psychiatry, the interaction between first- and second-line services and the need for action in psychiatry. In the case of psychiatric hospital beds, there has been a significant reduction in the number of hospital establishments and the local community sector has not had the power to follow-up with sufficient outpatient treatment or other services. This has to be corrected. I would also like to refer to proposals for a grant scheme so that young people are not allowed to live in a nursing home. We've been doing this, I don't know how many years. The size has decided that this should end in 2005, but it does not. And why doesn't that happen? Well, because the municipal sector has little money, and serves to gather young people either in a kind of care ghetto where there are many old people and people with problems – so that it can be effective, as the government likes – or in old homes. But it's unworthy, and it has nothing to do with freedom of choice for the individual. I also refer to the proposal to strengthen the system of user-led personal assistants, because this is very important for people with disabilities to be at all equal to others in society. Finally, I'll say a little about the school. The school is incredibly important for the future. Anyone who wants to secure the future has to make sure that the school is so good that not one child leaves school with a shrinked sea urchin and has been washed up in his own future. Then we need different education, not sharing lessons, we need more adapted training, and the kids need a lot of positive experiences and good experiences in school, because then they'll be happy in school and want to learn more. Then you can't cut, as many municipalities have to do now. That is why it is incredibly important that the local government sector now has a strengthening of its economy, so that they can take the responsibility they actually have for offering our children a school that is fully at the height of society around them, for example. have both school buildings, up-to-date and qualified teachers and technical equipment in line with society. This is important for all children, and it is most crucial for the children who come from families with bad advice, where the school should be the instrument that could eliminate a bad social heritage. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. I want to include the suggestions in the setting that SV either stands alone or has with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e630	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e635	SV says there should be an administrative level between the state and the municipalities. Of course, this should be popular. The Party shall also, in the configuration of the Municipal Committee, identify a number of key tasks to be assigned to the regional level of administration. People's word leaders in our country have agreed that we need new and larger populous regions to solve the challenges that exist, not least when it comes to employment and industrial development. In the setting SV points to the fact that it may be appropriate to have the county councils have their current geographic extent under a different name and with several tasks in the future. I would like to challenge Andersen's representative at this point and ask: Is SV dynamic enough at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e645	As far as this area is concerned, SV has for several years made proposals to transfer tasks to the county municipalities as they were, so that they could play the role they were supposed to have when the reform with the county municipalities came. During the examination of the task-sharing communication, we also promoted proposals for a pilot scheme with larger regions. Unfortunately, we did not get sufficient support to implement this. It would have been an interesting starting point to have now when we're going to start a major reform. So it's that there are very different sizes of the states in this country. They have different geographical locations. We don't want to lock up such an important reform if in any county councils it's thought that joining up with another county makes the proximity and the starting point you have to be able to pursue good policies in a geographical area impossible. That is why we want the reform, but we do not want to make it clear that everyone has to join forces for the reform to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e652	I have the greatest understanding that the academics are reaching refugees from S.B. in hops. What the representative Karin Andersen says about the 2004 allocation, that this was a one-off grant, is wrong. That must have been said for better knowledge. Of course, the high growth rate in the municipal economy in 2004 continues in 2005 – with four billion new tops. For 2006, real growth is projected in the municipal sector, no matter where the growth range is used. Then the representative Karin Andersen brought up the fact that a modern school is really the core of our society. I agree with the heart. But is it Karin Andersen's experience and wish that a modern school should also include that children should be able to multiply when they leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e661	In a modern school, children have to learn. They're going to learn more than what they're learning today. Therefore, SV wants to set high quality standards for public schools. We don't think there's any good method, as the Right says, that you have to let it scour and go with the public, and then you have to offer some private schools where you can choose from the public if you don't think it's good enough. The school that's not good enough for my kids isn't good enough for anyone's kids. That is why we must ensure that the whole school sector is of good quality. When we had a debate here this winter about the private schools, I think the government revealed itself quite seriously. Then the private Johan Bauer school was out and said that they would offer the PC to all the students. They wanted to offer a trip abroad. They wanted to offer a personal teacher to follow the students. We said this was a good idea. Why shouldn't we have such ambitions for public school? Then the government said that we couldn't have it, because it became too expensive. That means that the government doesn't have ambitions on behalf of the public school. That's why learning is also bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e668	It is always interesting to hear the representative Karin Andersen frise against competitive outsourcing and defend the public monopolies. In fact, Norway has one of the largest and most resource-intensive public sectors in the world. SV does this year – as in previous years – the piece of art left to be the most granted, 8-9 billion more they suggest. It's also a little interesting to notice the gap between the red-green parties – between the working party's 5.5 billion kroner and SV's 8-9 billion kroner. How can it be explained that these parties, which may be part of a common government, can crack so much in their view of the need for the local government sector? Let me ask: if we were to add NOK 8 to 9 billion more to the municipal sector, as SV suggests, does that mean that any future red-green government will have to increase taxes and taxes substantially to finance this? What is being said is that taxes and charges should not be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e675	It is true that SV has the strongest local economy of all parties. We do because we think it's a choice of value. But it is not right, as the representative Torbjørn Andersen of the Progress Party said, that in order to implement this, you need to increase taxes. The government and also the Progress Party are putting on the table that they want great tax relief in the future. We're going to be richer. What are we going to use that wealth for? The Progress Party and the Government say we should have more tax relief for that money. SV says no. We want better school, better well-being and better child protection for that money. It's a value selection, and it stands for SV. It is fully possible to spend money in a much more sensible, targeted and forward-looking way than both the Advance Party and the Government do.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e680	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e683	The centre party has higher security and local welfare targets than the Government. For us, it is a value choice to secure a good and free school, a more dignified care and the most necessary maintenance of municipal buildings. The center party wants the pastors to take care of our old ones, get better, not worse, time. We want to secure our children's better follow-up. So we want more teachers in school, not fewer. We want parents who have a disabled child to feel that they get better support from society, not as of now, to be referred to a humiliating self-help effort to get a satisfactory arrangement for their own children if possible. We want good municipal buildings, not schools and churches that are due. We recognise that the fight against poverty must be intensified and that municipalities have a decisive role to play in caring for their most disadvantaged. This costs, but we're willing to prioritize it over additional tax havens. It is no longer necessary to discuss the word we are going to use in order to see the actual local economy. Now people see it themselves. People see that when the learning density is reduced in the school, when the crossroads disappear, when the supply in the cultural sphere is reduced, it's because of the tight community economy. People see that when their own elderly people do not get a place in the hospital, even if an older reform has been carried out, it is the municipal economy that fails. The increase in the Government's contribution for the next year is not sufficient. An increase of DKr 1.3 billion in free resources will all initially be consumed by increased expenditure as a result of demographic changes. This scheme will not provide a better service to its inhabitants. Right, Christian People's Party and Left want it like this. Today's setting still confirms that there is an alternative to today's government. There is an option that will strengthen the community and strengthen the ability of local people to follow up with good local services. In its 2006 proposal, the Central Party has prioritised an increase in the free resources of the municipalities in line with KS’s requirements. That would mean at least $5.7 billion in relation to the government's $1.3 billion. KS has estimated the maintenance of buildings in the municipal sector for between 30 and 40 billion kroner. It is a particularly serious signal that many municipalities and counties are exposed to the necessary maintenance due to a need for a municipal economy. We want an increase of 2 million in all of the regional initiatives. kr. This means that 150 municipalities with about 3,000 inhabitants or fewer get 2 million. kr more. We find reason to remind ourselves of the special challenges these municipalities face today. If the population is on the way back, the income is falling. The costs will not be reduced accordingly if one wants to maintain a decentralised school structure or a good care in the community. The basic costs are the same, even if the classes are not full. The center part will also secure the inhabitants of these municipalities. Then there is a need to counter-move to the right-wing and Christian party of the People's Party for which they have been designated. We want to reintroduce a more conservative system for resource-intensive users. We are very pleased with five proposals that I should now mention in order, and as a broad majority – all the non-governmental parties – are now in favour. We want municipalities to know what they get when it comes to resource-intensive users. We are very pleased that a decision is being taken today to tell the municipalities that they will receive 80 pst. of costs in addition to NOK 725000. The government is now practicing an unsustainable and complicated system. It's going to go away. Then the Centerpartiet wants the property from the municipalities to be lower, and makes proposals in the form of SV of NOK 650,000. We stick to the principle that the funds should be earmarked for some municipalities, or for regrouping the activity in one area. We are opposed to these petty proposals presented by the Government, and we are pleased that there is a broad majority for our vision. For example, a number of young people in drug treatment establishments have been unsure whether or not they receive a schooling under treatment. Another example is the supplement to apprentices with special needs. Incorporating it is for us directly unsolvable. So a few words about the VAT compensation. He's made a lot of headbrow in the municipalities. We pointed out in the revised national budget that we don't believe the government has invested enough funds. A multiple of these now require the Government to carry out any re-allocation of extractions and compensation in the 2005 budget. The fourth proposal concerns health professionals – a repetition of a case that has created a lot of extra costs and a lot of added concern for many coastal communities, because the Government, with its proposal to transfer responsibilities from the National Agency to health care providers, does not secure these municipalities. On the contrary, they create uncertainty when it comes to the organisation of medical services, as well as financial exclusion for these municipalities. Here a majority of the Government is asking for a more prudent mechanism in the long term for the 2006 budget. So to young people with disabilities in the elderly institution. The number of young people with disabilities has increased in recent years. In some municipalities, there is an example of the prestigious municipal economy. It's also obvious that a few of these people want an institutional offer, but just as open it's that it's important to be active here. That's why we have a common proposal on that. So the beauties and the ROBEK municipalities. Yes, the easiest thing for a municipality that's on the ROBEK list is, of course, cutting, so that one gets out of this list. It's simple in theory, but of course it's not easy in practice for responsible local populaces who want to make a good offer. I think it is quite unheard of that the government party so uncritically gives praise to these municipalities, who have thus felt compelled to cut because they have been given too little funds. The question of future municipal structure is a repetition of the municipal proposition. Let me underline from the Center Party's side that voluntary participation is our basis. Let me also underline an important proposal from us, to introduce mechanisms that stimulate inter-municipal cooperation. We would have liked to see more than SV on that proposal. Then it's going to be exciting to see what happens to the regionally elected level. The central party is in charge of the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party to obtain a decision of principle from the Stortinget, a clarification in 2006. A clear premise is that a comprehensive and systematic transfer of tasks, responsibilities and authority from state to regionally elected peoples is completed. Or we have seven points in this setting that deepen our view of it. Let me conclude by saying that the proposal by the Government contained new tasks without the financing being clarified. I'm thinking about the promise of knowledge. There's no doubt that there's a billion counts here if the necessary learning material should be in place. It is important for us to clarify the costs of this in the 2006 state budget. This also confirms the change in the municipal structure, both in the ageing of the 2005 budget and in the budgetary procedure for the autumn. And then to all those who are concerned about social security, I recommend the two proposals from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, which for the first time involve a more mandatory consultation system with the KS, and for the second, a multi-year escalation plan to correct the economic imbalances. I would then like to address the proposal No. 16 and 17 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e727	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e732	Our income system is complicated, and it tends to have negative consequences if you start looking at it without looking at all the elements in context. The representative of Meltweit Kleppa has previously pointed out that no important changes should be made immediately before the Storting should discuss the setting from the Income System Selection. It is planned to take place in a year. Today, the Centre Party proposes to amend the regional contribution. Does not the representative Meltveit Kleppa see that the centre party is thus touching the balance sheet, and that there may be other elements in the income system that might as well have been right? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e739	The Central Party looks forward to the debate to come when it comes to the Income System Selection, with the greatest interest. We've thought that thorough assessments are important when making changes. At the same time, the majority in this room have systematically made changes that make everyday life in the smallest municipalities much worse. I'm thinking about both the conversion when it comes to drugs and psychiatry, and the corporate tax, which is not a reversal, but a redistribution of funds. This counterbalance is therefore absolutely necessary, because we think it is right and timely to raise a debate on the basis of which smaller municipalities should operate. They must also provide for a good school and a decent care, and have many more tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e744	Yesterday’s Evening Post read that 16 000 jobs are available in Oslo and Akershus, which is 19 p.m. more than last year in May. In my home country, Telemark, the rate of unemployment is highest in the country. We have received a notice from the State Institute for Consumer Research that the number of households with payment problems has halved over the last two years, and this trend is likely to be related to strong interest rate decline combined with significant income growth from the end of 2002 until today. Most people are happy, they think they're good, and the UN dares us to the world's best country to live in. It's not related to everything we hear from part of the opposition parties here today. The member of the Central Party says in a comment: ‘This member is deeply concerned about the overall impact of the policy line of the Cooperative Government.’ What's so wrong? Is Aetat wrong? Is it the research institutions that are wrong about their numbers, or is it the Center Party that is looking at the situation with a very special look at both in Kommune-Norway and in the country as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e755	I am very surprised that a representative who has been at Stortinget for four years, who has followed the decisions that have been taken, has not been able to get along with it, for example. that the Government, with the support of the Progress Party, has systematically cut into some public welfare schemes that make the ticket into sick pay for those who are ill more difficult to obtain, and that those who leave the day off have a worse economy. So we've got a new group of the next poor, which is in danger of getting a smaller basis for their everyday lives. Then there is also an overview that shows that there have been fewer settings before school and before care, so the government has got its goal of a smaller public sector fulfilled, and the government has got its goal of a Difference Norway fulfilled. In the Center Party we see those who fall outside, and we want to do something about it. I'm sorry that the government is closing its eye on today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e764	First, let me ask for evidence that the unemployed and the sick in this country have generally suffered worse. I think that's important, because it's a recurring claim that has not yet been documented. However, the opposite is partly documented. I have a question for the representative, Kleppa. In Bergen's Official Journal today, the representative Kleppa says that it will not be appropriate to vote subsidiaryly in relation to the municipal bill in relation to the economy. There are five framework proposals. The representative, Kleppa, indicates that there may be another government after the fall selection. Yeah, it could be. No one can draw that map. It is up to the voters to decide. How in the world can the representative Kleppa create predictability for the local government sector when one does not want to signal now which frameworks the local government sector should receive? Although the Centre Party loses its bidding round with SV, there are alternatives that provide better finances for the local government sector than is the setting by the Government. It's a challenge for the Center Party that I want an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e771	It seems a little strange to me that the representative Per Sandberg is calling for custody from the municipalities, who has been here several times in the decision on the cottage that he has not been through about the spring, and decisions on the spring that he has not been through about the cottage. We in the Center Party are actually going to do what we can to make sure that the local authorities are safe, by standing by the arrangement that we are now proposing. We mean that there's a need between 5.7 and 6.7 billion dollars in free income, and we also want to fight to get a regional supplement in place. I also want to remind you that we are three parties who have said that we want to do what we can to get to an alternative government. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party all have more to do with the municipalities than the Progress Party. We know the Progress Party and the unresponsiveness that they represent. It's enough to remind you of the corporate tax and the big words they used on it last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e780	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e783	The local economy is on the right track. The growth in 2004 and 2005 has our record peaks. The government takes important steps to cover the gap between tasks and revenues that follow many years of policy, not least the Labour Party’s arrangements from the 1990s — when eartaged schemes were consistently underfunded and not priced. It is a well-known fact that the local government sector had a weak income trend in 2002 and 2003, mainly due to increased pension expenditure and tax intake failures. Since then, the sector has been given a historic boost, far above it. The Labour Party and the Center Party were once in the vicinity of the position. As before, these parties are more generous in opposition, but the credibility of this speaks for itself. Look at history! Politics is about prioritisation, about taking things in order – and letting the concerns of the economy decide what there is room for increased effort. It is such a responsible policy that gives better advice to households, businesses and municipalities – due to low price rises, low interest rates and moderate wage settlements. The effect of this is greater than billions of extra transfers. It does not help with a large lift from the opposition when not telling the back of the medal. What do they want to give priority to, and how do they overwhelm? I just want to remind you of a couple of reactions after the national meeting of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in ours. Citation from the Newspaper on April 2nd: ‘The ESA’s economic policy is not interrelated, believes leading economists. They believe that increased taxes are necessary in order to meet Kristin Halvorsen’s electoral promises.’ If the Centre Party wrote VG at the tenure place on 12 March: «The lift flood served by Sp in front of the elections is so extensive and costly that today's Minister of Finance, Per-Kristian Foss, must have hotspots. It should also be given to Ap-leader Jens Stoltenberg." I believe that the Norwegian people have been vaccinated against unspoiled overcrowded policies. If it were only the local economy that would get more money, it would be the case, but the opposition would allow billions for all possible purposes. It is not related, especially when the same parties do not want to reverse the tax credits they have used throughout this period to finance their increased promises – not least to the municipal sector. In the first sentence of its remarks in the setting we are now dealing with, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party repeat the eternal mass that the Government prioritises tax relief for the richest rather than welfare. Why won't these parties increase these taxes again? Why not reintroduce the investment tax and the flight tax? Why not increase the peak rate of intermediate income and lower the minimum deduction limit – all of the items that monasteries? When, in addition to this, the Centre Party, through an interview in the Newspaper, promises to zero out the use of additional oil money, which they have benefited from throughout this period, only one must state that the bottom falls out of the opposition’s promises and overburdens. I mean, they don't have any trust, and the charities shouldn't be fooled. And in parentheses, the central party's thief loan from the pension fund continues this year, through the revised national budget, where they spend 800 million. kr – it will only end next year – while the party will be involved and reduce the wealth tax on working capital. As I understand it, the excesses that the red parties present today must be financed by sabotaging the tax reform that the Stortinget, with the support of the Labour Party, has agreed, and that provides tax austerity for the richest. Or maybe they're going to reintroduce the housing tax? Will the Labour Party propose a national property tax? Why can't three parties that say they're going to form a government of the autumn and decide the state budget for next year, gather about a common economy half a year before? Norwegian municipalities are lit up with a gradual growth in their incomes, within a responsible and sober economic policy. Additional transfers will not help if they are eaten by increasing wages and prices. Norwegian municipalities are also marked with increased freedom to determine how they will use their own resources. It is a pity, therefore, that the government party does not get any more parties on a force cut-off to reduce ear marking and detail control. All parties have their festivities in this field, but not all follow up in reality. There is something fundamentally wrong with a party that can celebrate local democracy on the one day, and demand new ear-marked measures on the other day. There will be no multiple today for a specific frame for the municipalities next year. Local authorities are wise to plan from their Government proposals. If there is, however, a government shift, the transfers may increase slightly, but the spin may quickly increase. The government has given priority to the local economy in this period. This will continue in the next period, within a good economic policy that does not jeopardize the good results we have achieved for the workplaces, homes and municipalities. Of course, we agree with the Christian People's Party and the Right in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e824	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e827	The representative Vihovde represents a party occupied by local democracy. What we see in the municipal sector today is that the municipal sector is underfunded. Municipalities by municipality are reducing their welfare supply, and they are renouncing their additions. What, then, is left of local democracy? If you ask a municipal politician today what the task is of the local government, he will tell you that they are poverty-distributing them. It is not satisfactory and it is not helpful to recruit for local political work. Then to the claim of over-prevention policy. I note that the Left has started the long election campaign. Does the Left really believe that the government's financial framework for 2006 is satisfactory in order to increase recruitment to local politics, or does the representative rest with the fact that there is a majority in this Chamber who will nevertheless adopt a higher framework than the Government stands for?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e838	Let me start with the last one. Of course, the left is behind the government's frame. We want the freedom to consider whether to increase the budget, but it must be within the overall economic policy, where there is no higher interest rate, where there is a strengthened dollar rate, and where there is no risk to employment. So to the point that it is so bad and difficult in the municipalities: yes, a lot of municipalities are tired. They do because they have had sub-funding on some ear-marked schemes. And of course, we also want to strengthen the transfers to the municipalities. But in fact, I believe that when we sit here in this Chamber and adopt laws and rules and as strong a leadership for the municipal sector as we do, because we want them to give priority to what we think they should give priority to, we are actually doing a lot of things that our municipal politicians could use in a completely different way, if they had that freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e845	It is quite remarkable to be taught by the Left on governance of the economy, when we know – it reports Today’s Business – that this government has spent SEK 150 billion more of the oil money than the rule of action suggests. There's room in the future economy, there's growth in the future. But it's not possible, according to the left, to use any of this increase for anything other than tax relief for those who already have the most. This is where SV chooses different from the government. When we know that there are increases in the economy, we say that a greater share of that increase should go to well-being, to schools and to care. It's a value choice, it's a value choice! And I think it's very good that the left now shows that they don't think it's as important. They think it's more important that you get more money in your wallet that you can use – yes, I don't know right for what, that's what people can decide. Left makes it a big point that the inclusion of 57 million. kr in the local economy should mean increased freedom of choice, while a greater share in the local economy, of several billions, is impossible and means nothing for freedom. I think the Left should try to explain that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e852	The left is, of course, behind all the tax breaks we've been through in this four-year period. In fact, a good part is also supported by the Socialist Left Party. We are going to continue to make proposals on tax relief, in line with the tax reform that we actually got adopted on Tuesday. But that also means increasing taxes for some, through the dividend tax. But we've been busy giving tax breaks to secure jobs. Families also have increased purchasing power, they have reduced their taxes, and they have received low interest rates, which they can use to ensure good welfare for themselves. It's not just the kingdoms that have received tax credits, like the Socialist Left Party, until they want to claim degrees. We want to provide tax incentives for increased labour input and for more jobs, but at the same time we want to ensure well-being. And in fact, this government has spent a lot more money securing the well-being and increasing the well-being of most people. I think most people also perceive that – well-being has improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e864	Newspaper Ryfylke has a leader in the last edition saying they're writing about big business representatives traveling to Oslo, forgetting where they came from. May Britt Vihovde may not have forgotten where she is, but I understand that she thinks it's perfectly OK that Sveio has closed the swimming pool, and that they've cut off the school supply. I also understand that she disagrees with her colleague Anita Apelthun Säle, who actually stated that she would have liked to see a better municipality than what the Government is now proposing. Then I understand that she has not come to realize that the Central Party has made the SSB evaluate its budget. They say our budget will have a minimal impact on interest rate/inflation, but it will mean 10,300 annual works in municipalities. The same thing KS has done with what they've asked for, which is $5.7 billion. They've been given the quality assurance. It means a lot to local well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e873	I haven't forgotten where I came from. I have very good contact with the local politicians in Sveio. I'll be there. I enjoy a very good provision of well-being, which these politicians have managed to control. The priority must be given to local politicians. Sometimes the Centre Party wins with its priorities; other times the Left wins with its own. But this is actually up to the individual municipalities. I thought we should be a little honest and say that some municipalities are tired, but there are also municipalities that have a very good economy, and that can provide a very good supply for them. Then we're going to fight to increase the transfers to the municipal sector. But we support what's from the Government, and then we'll see it within a holistic scheme. I have to say, we have a government seat with the Center Party, and then there were tough priorities. I'm very excited about how the red option can be prioritised – with the overdone and the different funds they have – at next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e884	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e887	The local economy is becoming a major factor in this election campaign. It's fixed. The responsibility for it lies primarily with the Government. The state is drowning in money. Is there any reason, then, to sacrifice well-being? Is it because the members of the Government and the municipal minister Erna Solberg believe they have more knowledge and competence about the conditions of the local economy than the state and big business politicians have? Is that why we sacrifice well-being? Or is it because the government and the municipal minister are dealing with skyrocketing and completely ignoring the situation in Kommune-Norway? I suspect the government, and the municipal minister, for the last time. Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik can massage as much as he wants Norway to go on the rails under this government. The economy in the country is going down because of international economic cycles. The local economy is a major campaign case. The choice determines what kind of municipal economy we get. The government's municipal policy is hard to swallow for a lack of a Christian People's Party politician. It is claimed that the dissatisfaction among the party's rapporteurs and local politicians is an Achilles heel for government cooperation. I can underline that. The Coastal Party leader, Roy Waage, was for many years a central local politician in the Christian People's Party. He went to the Coastal Party because it became impossible for him to conduct credible politics in the Christian People's Party. Of course, the government has put the spotlight on the local economy in its own way. There is a lack of knowledge about the composition of own expenditure that is serious, because it prevents fundamental change, says municipal minister Erna Solberg on the basis of a report prepared by Ernst & Young. It's not that simple. I would rather say this: when the municipalities are under pressure, it leads to a completely different way of working than if the municipalities knew that they could cope not only with the wage increase, but also with the necessary maintenance costs and investments that the municipalities have. The municipalities do not take into account the fact that expenditure is rising, claims the analyst. Is that right now? Of course, municipalities have to be more efficient in financial management, but this presupposes that municipalities have an economy to manage, after all fixed costs and all statutory expenditure are covered. There are many municipalities that do not have the financial resources to see any possibility of directing the local economy out of the hemisphere. Select 100 municipalities today are on the municipal ministry's supervisory list. It's 27 pst. of all the municipalities of the country. Kommune-Norge is struggling with a very tight economy, and we are, in fact, big business representatives who are responsible for it. These municipalities are scattered throughout the country. We find municipalities like Molde, Ålesund, Bergen, Kongsberg, Fredrikstad, Porsgrund, Skien and Elverum. I mention it, because it may have created a false impression that there are mostly small municipalities in the districts that have come under this scheme. In relation to the claim made by the Minister of Local Affairs that larger areas, larger regions, are more profitable – that doesn't exactly testify to that, what I just said – this summary may also be very interesting. It clearly shows that it's not the size that matters. So what does a poor local economy mean in relation to a good local economy? It means a big difference in the welfare goods, short and easy. Moving to one of the municipalities on the list is not as good a welfare solution as moving to other and richer municipalities. That means there's a big difference between people, depending on where you live in the country. Is this how the Government will face a situation of increasing unemployment in health and care professions, while the need is increasing dramatically? It is the social responsibility that underpins a good municipal policy. Can we interpret the Government's proposal to the point that the Bondevik government lacks antennae for the social development of the country? Yeah, I'll say. The designation of grants for kindergartens is now to disappear from the local economy. The government believes that it will lead to more good and healthy kindergartens. I don't think so. I don't think this government has visions of a viable Norway with future faith in thousands of neighbourhoods where there's room for everyone. One cannot claim that there are billions of savings by competitive public services, as the Government proposes. It's going to be wrong. In too many cases, competitive outsourcing of welfare services has been shown to provide less expensive and at least equally expensive services. It must be noted that some municipalities are much more effective than others. The Coastal Party leader, Roy Waage, has said it this way: I think the time is up for protests and uprooted against the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e915	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e918	The representative Bastisen uses a lot of wise words. In the post he made now, there were constant opinions about poor local economy, and poor local economy. My question to the representative of Bastesen is: does he share the views of the Progress Party on the income system of the local government sector, which gives a misunderstanding in the local government sector? Or is the Bastisen also in line with the Center Party, which believes that all 433 municipalities are in a terrible economic situation, or could it be that many municipalities also have a very good economy? As I understand the contribution to the representative Bastesen, it is generally bad in all of these 433 municipalities, although we have figures that show that some municipalities have a very, very good economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e925	To Per Sandberg's orientation, I think there are a lot of municipalities that are struggling with the economy. There are some municipalities that have good finances, but I don't know them. Most people have bad finances. There must be something wrong with the income system when we have rich municipalities that contribute to the state with large sums, but even go to the poverty fund. Then there is something wrong with the income system, I agree with Per Sandberg. We have to do something about it. But we need to strengthen the local government's economy. It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e930	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e933	Our well-being and security depend to a large extent on our common welfare systems — whether our children have a good school offer, whether our elderly people get good home help services, whether you get sick homes when you need them, and whether you get fast treatment in case of illness. For most of us, the lack of these welfare services is a greater problem than the lack of private wealth. For this reason, the Workers' Party will improve the quality of school, strengthen teaching in Norwegian, math and English, provide homework, provide training tailored to the individual student and provide teachers with further and further training. In the same way, we will improve the elderly services, strengthen cultural and activity services, provide those in need of care, personal care, respect and privacy, give everyone who wants it, exclusive in nursing homes, and provide room for short-term stays for those in need. That is why we will also strengthen the municipal sector. It's a political choice. Under this government, we have seen a serious deterioration in the economy of the municipal sector. Therefore, the offers are weakened rather than strengthened. Parents receive a letter that the swimming lessons are cut to save money. Additional resources for teaching are cut. Schools are laid down. Older people are told that there will be a longer period of time between visits from home help. Hospital wards are left unused. This is the result of conscious choices. The Right Party and the Advance Party shall allow schoolchildren and the elderly to pay for the tax relief to those with the highest income. They could have chosen differently. The right-hand and the Progressive Party could choose to strengthen the school, strengthen the elderly services and strengthen health services, but they chose not to do so. Instead, they chose to give 23 billion dollars in tax bills. The working party selects differently. We will strengthen the school, strengthen the elderly services and strengthen the provision of health care. That's why every year we've gone into this period to spend more money on the municipalities and less on the tax havens. For example, for a municipality like Fredrikstad: the difference during the period totaled to 60 million. kr more with the structure of the Workers' Party than that adopted. In the run-up to next year, the Government does not undertake to increase the free income more than barely to cover the additional costs of the municipalities as a result of increasing the number of older and more school students, DKK 1.3 billion. The government is not taking any action to improve the situation in the municipalities. The Labour Party believes that the free revenues must be increased by DKK 3.5 billion in addition to this – i.e. NOK 4.8 billion. At the same time, we believe it is necessary to establish a binding plan to correct the financial imbalances in the municipal sector. This illustrates the difference between better common property and tax relief for those who have the most. That's what the choice for the harvest will be about.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e954	It is with a certain amazement that I have been listening to parts of this debate, after haranged after harange, that have come about the misery of Norwegian society – not least when the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa manages to suspect debaters and her political opponents as she did when she said that we had reached our goal of a larger Difference Norway. I was confirmed in the newscast yesterday morning that I have achieved my goal as a politician, by the fact that fewer families have payment obligations in this country today than they had in 2003, and they have received it – the representatives of the SV should take it along – because we have had higher private consumption. Private income has increased more so that people can pay their bills. The most important thing in our society is that people are able to pay their bills and feel the security at the bottom of it. So you've halved the number of families in that situation. I think this should be taken with me in this black paint that's going on in politics, that everything is wrong. In fact, some of the weakest have had a strengthened situation, where they are able to pay their bills. It's about tax relief, it's about low interest rates, and it's about us contributing to an economic policy that makes it better. I also think it is important to take into account what we are now discussing: the local economy: KS has asked, many have said, NOK 5.7 billion in 2006 – I think it was the representative Karin Andersen who said it was to maintain the quality of the work they are doing in the welfare sector. No, KS has requested that they cover SEK 1.3 billion for demography. That's the bottom plan of the government in the interval we have. They have asked for NOK 1.4 billion to get net operating profit of 3 p.m., which is about maintaining the quality of services as they are, without taking savings. They said it's 500 million. kr in potential efficiency gains, and then we are within the range of the free income growth proposed by the Government, in order to maintain quality and balance after the financial imbalance we have been working on for several years now. Then they propose, in addition to that, NOK 3.5 billion related to maintenance, of which NOK 2 billion will be returned for the detention of maintenance. So it's not the care of the elderly, it's not the quality of the services; it's the maintenance of the buildings that have been required by the KS and that have been incorporated into it. It might have been a point that we had had a clearer debate about what different groupings have added up to. The debate that I have heard today really makes the consultation system superfluous. Because there's no one here that even listens to what KS actually says, they just hear numbers. I can then, at the request of Stortinget, consult the KS again. I can do that many times. But my question is, is it that you should be listened to, or is it so that the election campaign is now in full swing, so that doesn't mean anything? Reidar Sandal said it was the government's fault that we have financial imbalances. Well, I think we all have a partial blame for this, and the main basis for the economic imbalance was laid at the end of the 1990s. In 1996, the Labour Party decided to propose 0.15 pst. growth in free income, in 1997 they chose 0.2 pst. growth in the free revenues, and in 1998, 1999 and 2000, when with local government ministers from the Central Party, they chose 0.2 pst. the growth of the free revenues. The proposal we now have is, as a percentage, six times as high in free income as the Workers' Party proposed in 1996, and it is five times as high in growth as the proposed three times as large as the Centre's proposals. Of course, there were problems at that time. At that time, under-budgeting of the local government sector was decided to invest in the earmarked schemes, and the free revenues were cut. My polemic question – back to the speech to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa just – is: Would the Center Party at that time not have a good school? Would you not have good care for the elderly at the time? Was it not important then with the quality, since they had no money to do anything about it? I think one of the most important challenges for politicians in the future is to create respect for the politician's job and make sure that the politician's disdain is reduced. The debate we've had so far here, and the picture given by what you're going to afford if you get into government, is so small that I believe that the really big backlash that comes for democracy in Norway at this kind of debate is an out-of-the-box political debate, because there's so much you can't deliver here that it should be really embarrassing for those who have said something.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e965	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e969	According to NTB on 13 May, the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, the date on which the municipality proposal was made, stated: ‘And according to Erna Solberg, the appropriations are committed to ensuring that the financial crisis in Norwegian municipalities can soon be phased out.’ The government itself has informed us that there are now 115 municipalities under state control. The deficit in the municipal sector has been historically high over the previous two years. Welfare services have been cut down in many municipalities. So I'd like to ask you, Trur, the Council of State, for example. the spokespersons in Molde, Austevoll and Lillesand, who have major economic problems, will stand behind the quoted nominee with whom NTB has come?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e981	No, but if Reidar Sandal had listened to what I said in my post, he would hear my review of what KS and we agree on, and what is actually the deficit at the entrance to next year in relation to operating costs. That's $1.4 billion. This means that a scheme within the external framework of free revenues that we have set up by the Government provides a starting point for the recovery of the deficit which was measured at the end of 2003 at NOK 5.5 billion. That's how you have to read it when you go through what KS has written. Then I think that's the basis for saying that then we're on our way to re-establishing the economic crisis. There are many important welfare tasks that need to be solved in the future, but we need to keep the economy in order first. We have to have a balance, if you don't push the costs in front of us. And I think that's actually what we've done over the last two years. Then I want to remind you of one thing, that in 2004 there was no record deficit – it was a good year, with a good balance of operations – while in 2002 and 2003 it was, because of tax failure. I would also like to remind you that in 2002 the working party had a total of 250 million. more than the Government of the Municipal Economy, and it had not contributed in particular to reducing the deficit in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e988	The President will remind you that time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e991	First, I must be allowed to say that I share the concerns of the Council of State in relation to the black paint that occurs daily from the red-green option. One could be depressed by less. It might be interesting to challenge the Council of State to draw some scenarios about the outcome of a driving that kind of black paint daily. But my question to the Council of State relates in particular to the Workers' Party all the time, this list of municipalities that are under state supervision. We all know the reasons why they're on that list. It doesn't necessarily have to be that there are no heads in the register, there may be trifles, very simple, small mistakes that the municipalities have made. We now read that older people have to share single rooms, they can't go on their own, schools are laid down, etc. – mostly in SV and labour party-driven municipalities. What sanctions do the Government have against these municipalities, when they do not give priority under the reform adopted at large and under government?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1000	Let me first point out that in the case of the so-called ROBEK list, one at the moment feels that municipalities are disappearing at record speed. Our estimate is that we come under 100 municipalities on that list when the closure of the accounts for 2004 is completed. So there will be maybe 20-25 more municipalities than it was when the list was created in 2001. I have always said that I am most concerned about those who stood there in 2001 and who have never come out. We have some municipalities there that have some of the really big structural problems, and sometimes also skills problems in getting the economy right. It causes concern when there are municipalities that have been there for so long. But we also have some examples of someone getting out again. We have 91 pst. In Norway, retail coverage is now high. That's equivalent to what's also in the regulation. At the moment, there is no reason to worry that we do not reach the main objectives set out in the regulation that we should have approx. 90 pst. One-room coverage, because approx. 10 pst. of the spaces at all times are used for such short stays that it must be tolerable to have two in the space, if any. But there are some worrying signals from some municipalities. So far it seems that those municipalities are using a little more double room because they are in a remodeling phase in the case of new nursing homes, or nursing homes to be upgraded. Then you might have to live with it for a period, but the government always follows closely whether the regulations in these areas are being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1007	I think maybe the Council of State could cut down a few dots when she puts grades on the debate and presents it as if it's completely impossible to spend money that the Right has promised in tax bills, on welfare and school in the municipal sector. It's actually possible to choose differently from the right, and SV does. But I'm going to take one of the major societal challenges we have in front of us. More and more people are excluded from the labour market, reintroduction and disability. SV has asked the Council of State: does she know how this works in the municipal sector? Do we have numbers? No, the council answers, we don't have numbers. And besides, what we know about it indicates that this is going the wrong way. In addition, the Government is concerned with improving efficiency, but the efficiency projects they have launched do not assess effectiveness in the light of IA objectives 2 and 3, which relate to people outside the labour market getting a job. Does the Council of State believe that this efficiency and quality objective is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1014	I could now provide a good probability of why Karin Andersen is not going to afford the municipal scheme she has set up, even by funding it at the Right Budget for tax relief. I would like to remind you that the Right Programme requires tax relief. This can be done with approx. $20 billion. If we take NOK 5 billion every year divided over the next four-year period, the representative Andersen doesn't even have money for the municipal scheme for the next year, by financing it that way. Therefore, it is not credible not to increase taxes, or not to spend more oil money in the future, because even before you have to finance your municipal scheme, you have spent much more money than this. I am concerned that we will implement the IA agreement. The government is engaged in the IA agreement, in particular including more groups is important. That's one of the things we put more pressure on when we're now working on the further development of the IA agreement. It works gradually on sick pay, but now we have to look at the exclusion mechanism that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1021	Governments are busy with political dissatisfaction. What really creates political disdain must be that the country has a municipal minister who is still busy with what happened ten years ago, instead of looking at the future, and who uses his figures as he pleases, and who says nothing about the fact that there was something called more tax growth, which the municipalities kept, for example. during the centre management. Then I will ask the Council of State to confirm or confirm that the Government has abandoned the principle of equalization – I have understood it this way. And it says a bunch of researchers will mean a direction with bigger differences in this country. And then the Council of State proposes $1.3 billion. The center party is occupied by a good school, a worthy care and that the municipalities will have money for maintenance. How are they supposed to make it within SEK 1.3 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1033	I believe that it is relevant, and I know that it is painful for the Centre Party – very painful for the Centre Party – to be reminded of their participation and their work for the local economy when they were in the government last time. The former party leader of the Center Party, who had also been the municipal minister, had humility enough to say that the imbalance that arose in the municipal economy had contributed to many – including that they themselves had not done a good enough job. Had it been such that the humility had been expressed by the centrist figures now, I would not have thought it had been a big point, but history shows the credibility of what the centre party manages to prioritize, and what they get through for. And so it's like we haven't suggested NOK 1.3 billion, we've suggested a growth of between NOK 1.3 billion and NOK 2.3 billion. Where we end up in that growth range, it depends on what kind of other expenditure comes into the budget, and how the income side goes forward for the entire state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1042	The economy of municipalities has been significantly weakened during this period, and we see daily effects of this. And then the Council of State gives a rosy mention of evolution in the last few years. Yes, in 2004, the economy of the municipal sector was improved by DKK 2 billion as a result of the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party and another DKK 2 billion as a result of the new aging agreement with the Progress Party, i.e. in violation of the Government's will. In 2005, the Government raised a growth in free income clearly below what was the extra cost of population changes, and it became somewhat larger as a result of the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, but again against the will of the Government. So the scheme for 2006 is that the government is barely committed to giving as much as the growth in the population suggests. Is this government's policy to improve the economy of the municipal sector? Or is it that what must have been of improvement is the result of unity in the Storting, which has gone against the will of the Government? And isn't it true that we are equally fully faced with a situation in which the municipalities together stand a lot worse rusted now than they did when this government took over?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1051	In fact, municipalities are in a better situation, they provide more services, there are several teaching hours, more care is provided in the home care services. The only area that might have a little bit from 2001 is the number of residential areas, and we knew that would be the result of the elderly care reform, i.e. the old age plan, because it was built for a few institutional areas, i.e. sick homes for the elderly, and the energy reform ate up some of the capacity that has been. So if you go through what you do with services in all areas of the municipal sector, the municipal sector now provides more services than they did in 2001. So the economic situation is that we need $1.4 billion to achieve our goal of 3 pst. operating profit, but it has been several years earlier where it has also been unbalanced. So I just want to say to the Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa in the previous row, that there had been so much growth in tax revenue. Well, in 1999, it was 200 million. kr in VAT growth, and yet only 0,2 pst were proposed by the Centre in the same year. growth in the free revenues — not much.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1061	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1064	There were no municipal politicians or rapporteurs from any parties who took the wave on the day the municipal minister made the municipal proposition for next year. The frustration and the acknowledgment just got bigger. And after the treatment in Stortinget, the situation hasn't changed. The right and Christian People's Party here in Stortinget has not promised a crown in addition to what is stated in the proposition, as proposed by the Minister of Local Affairs. Although the Christian People's Party representative and the case rapporteur fall a few tears in Bergen's Official Journal and feel that this is far too small, it does not help that neighbor to the Right Council of State. The Christian People's Party loses in the fight for money to the municipalities. The promise now is that the growth of the free revenues – for that is what is of interest – will be SEK 1.3 billion to next year. The Labour Party believes this is far too small. We believe that a growth of SEK 4.8 billion in free income is necessary. So that's going to add up to $5.5 billion. In addition, the Workers' Party is going to bet on kindergartens, which go far beyond the government's arrangements. We also want an obligating plan to create the economic imbalance in the municipal sector, and ask the government to put such work into place. We don't get a majority for that. It is not the municipal politicians and the rapporteurs who are concerned about the Workers' Party. No, it is the grandmother who so sorely needs an hour more home help every 14 days – the minimum pensioner who has not received tax relief, who is not allowed to participate in the increased private welfare that someone has received and who does not understand that the municipalities have to cut off the offers. But with what is adopted here today, the municipalities will not be able to extend the offers to next year. There won't be any more home help. No, because the increase that is now coming, and as the government parties, including the Christian People's Party, boasts, only covers the costs of getting more older, more schoolchildren, etc. Besides, there's no increase, unfortunately. There is no improvement for Martin in seven, who would like to go to the school leisure program while the mother is at work. But the school leave arrangement has become very expensive, because the municipality has had no other means to maintain the arrangements than to pay the price. That's why there'll be keys around the neck seven-year-old rushes to school and home to empty houses when school day's over, even next year. These were a few everyday examples from Norway. They don't remember much about the rich state that we hear so much about. But this is the reality of many. And those who are hit are hit hard. This is not the way the Working Party wants it to be. Therefore, we believe that we should have more community, better municipal economy and less private abundance for some. That's what we're going to do for the autumn. Today's treatment of the local economy is a good example of the need for a new majority and a new government for the harvest, so that well-being can be increased and those who need it the most get a better offer, not even worse. So for the host municipality grant. Moss municipality was the host municipality of Oslo before the HVPU reform came into force. Oslo sent the most resource-intensive users there. 55 users still live there. The municipality has estimated a deficit of almost 16 million. kr for that group of the items they receive from transfers. This gives a hopeless situation for the municipality with only one exit: if the municipality does not receive more of its actual expenditure, the offer to users must be much worse. Therefore, it is good that the Workers' Party is given a majority for a full review in order to make the real costs of the host municipalities visible. It gives new hope to the municipality of Moss, and it gives new hope to the users. So to the representative Sandberg, who boasts that the Progress Party is giving enough money to the municipalities to receive immigrants. It is quite wrong, because the Progress Party has opposed the state's paying the municipalities for those who come into family reunification with those who have been given a humanitarian residence. Then the municipalities get zero kroner, not more than 500000 kroner, as the representative Sandberg tries to produce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1083	Let me first correct a manifest misunderstanding from the representative Signe Eye. Minimum pensioners have also received tax relief. The taxes on wealth are reduced and the taxes on wealth are a tax of 40 p.m. is paid in by pensioners. So a lot of these are minimum pensioners. The removal of house taxes also benefits minimum pensioners and the special deduction for age is increased. Overall, minimum pensioners get far more back now than they did in 2001, when the Workers' Party put in power. Then it's tempting to draw the parallel of former Minister of Finance Schjött-Pedersen and his time as Minister of Finance, and to the municipal riots and the protests that then came, but it'll be a very sad chapter for the Workers' Party to draw it up again, so we'll move on smoothly. We are definitely administered in Norway. The public sector is very large in Norway, and particularly worrying is the fact that we have a municipal structure from the 1960s, and 19 county municipalities that should never have been established. This means that our citizens don't get the quality of services they should have. Some municipalities are too small to have the skills they need in all areas, and the overall use of resources in administration is significantly higher than it needs to be. It is also tempting to draw attention to our neighbouring country Denmark, where the number of municipalities is now reduced from 276 to 98. There it was decided by the Folketing to have a minimum size of 30,000 inhabitants per. the municipality, but the division was free to do locally. It shifted the focus from what we are familiar with in Norway, namely: ‘My municipality is more than large enough, and it’s just as appropriate’ to: ‘Who can we work with to ensure that my citizens get the best possible service offer?’ There were also many local public initiatives to ensure that their municipality cooperated with municipalities other than those decided by the politicians, and many of these initiatives won such a referendum. Old municipal borders disappeared and new ones were created. I want to say that this is a lighthouse – or a leading star – for us here in Norway. We again need, a strong need, to draw a new municipal map, for the benefit of our citizens. Many promote extensive intercommunal cooperation as an alternative to municipal association. It's going to be putting your head in the sand. Far-reaching use of inter-municipal cooperation is all too often an expression that the municipal structure is not satisfactory in meeting the tasks of the local government sector. The lack of democracy and the building up of bureaucracy that gives less resources back to the direct provision of services are, to me, the main arguments of principle. In addition, it provides lower cost control for each municipality. Extensive inter-municipal cooperation could also contribute to a fragmented governance structure, ambiguity in responsibility and difficulty in coordinating services, especially to the vulnerable users. However, I would like to point out that until we have a robust and forward-looking municipal structure, too many of the smallest municipalities of intermunicipal cooperation are still the best solution. The goal in the future must be a community reform that provides better services to our citizens. It is difficult to discuss the municipal proposition without access to local economy. It must be admitted that for some of the municipalities in the country, the economy has also been tight during this ageing period. But it's improved anyway. For 2004, the result was 2.4 p.m., or 5.6 billion kroner. This result is a consequence of more than just extra appropriations from Stortinget. The government's economic policy has contributed to the exceptionally low level of interest rates. We have a low price rise, and we have moderate wage settlement. All of this is also the government's profit. At the same time, many municipalities have both modernised and streamlined their operations. Decreasing unemployment also has an impact on the local economy. New jobs are now being created at high speed, and most joyous in this respect is that more and more people are creating their own jobs. Founder’s desire is back in Norway. It in turn means higher tax revenue and lower expenditure on social budgets. Overall, this gives a clear picture also of the local economy and the municipal sector. Norway does not need a new course, Norway still needs progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1104	It is with some certainty that it must be noted that the debate on the municipal proposition is still being reduced to a dispute as to which party is the best man in the class when it comes to granting as much extra billion as possible to the municipal sector. In my view, concentrating on the debate on the municipal proposition to become essentially a question of financial allocation is too narrow in relation to the many challenges facing Norwegian municipalities in the future. Therefore, greater attention should be paid to the ability of municipalities to convert, renew, modernise, launch and merge. This is probably as important a topic in the debate as the number of billions transferred from the state. It is regrettable that municipal service production is almost stagnated into a structure characterised by the monopoly position of the public sector, which is thus protected from competition from the private sector. Most municipalities still don't have the power to think anything new here. In order to create a reasonable competitive relationship between municipal services and private actors in the production of publicly funded welfare services, Norway is a slowdown. We know that the vast majority of products that consumers enjoy today have low prices and high quality precisely because there is competition in the private sector to offer consumers the best and cheapest products. And then you can ask: why should it not also be in the public sector that consumers can choose what they think is best for themselves? Why should consumers of publicly funded services only be referred to a public monopolist, without any possibility of choosing who they want as a supplier? It must then be that, in the case of welfare services, consumers must have freedom of choice in order to ensure high quality and fair prices. With regard to the right to choose between public or private care services, public or private schools, public or private health care centres, there is little or no freedom of choice in most municipalities today. This is an old Soviet monopolistic situation that should have been banned in Norway. If we are to increase the quality of welfare services and, at the same time, curb the growth of public expenditure, there will be no way in the future but to open up a reasonable level of competition between public and private to provide public-funded welfare services in the municipal sector. The debate on the local economy has always been a continuing political issue, even under changing governments. I do not remember that the municipalities have ever stated that they have been anything but dissatisfied with the fact that the state transfers have been too small to perform the tasks that the municipalities are set to do. However, the truth is that the growth in the municipal sector has never been stronger than in recent years, and never has the municipalities ever had more money at their disposal, actually. Last year the net operating result for Norwegian municipalities was 2.4 pst., which is much better than in many years. This is a joyous progress, and the Progress Party is of course pleased that we have also helped to give the municipalities a small extra pot of money. However, as long as municipal service production is in a monopoly position and is not exposed to the competitive market correction that counteracts inefficiency, this in itself implies that we must have tight budgetary frameworks on the part of the state as an instrument against municipal inefficiency. This permanent political dispute over the local economy is in evidence that the time has come for us to introduce a completely new and different funding system than today's framework financing system. This system is outdated. Therefore, the Progress Party will have a completely new funding system for the municipal services that ensure equivalent offers across the country, whether in a poor or rich municipality. The Progress Party will have a new funding system for the municipal welfare services, based on a state-owned single-cost financing of the basic municipal welfare services, and will facilitate increased freedom of choice for users of publicly funded services, so that they can choose freely between public or private service providers. The question is not about, but when we have to introduce such a new funding system, combined with freedom of choice and market solutions in terms of municipal services, in line with the Progress Party's claim all year round.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1123	A strong public sector has been and is an important foundation in the development of our society towards a safe and well-being state. The public common solutions are central to Norway. This does not apply at least in areas such as schooling and care for the elderly. One of the goals of the Norwegian people in the post-war period has been to remove the class contradictions in society by creating equal rights and equal opportunities for all. But research and experience have shown us that these are complicated questions that don't have simple answers and simple solutions. The income system of the municipal sector also has elements in it which mean that there will be large differences and variations between municipalities and municipalities. Economic crisis is reported in several municipalities. Every day is difficult. The tasks and challenges are greater than the money bag extends to. And in several municipalities, the consequence becomes dramatic in the welfare supply. It should also take over the Progress Party. In life inside and outside the municipality hall, politicians and the administration will meet, and will have to solve complex challenges and tasks. Poor economy also makes it harder to recruit for political work. Conversion, efficiency, cutting – these are words that are left in the municipal sector. Big demands are made on the municipality, both from a demanding community and from demanding citizens. These are requirements that citizens can rightly claim. In addition, there are many, not to mention the vast majority, who have strong views on how to operate a municipality today. This everyday life wears on both the administration, add and populace. How a modern municipality should develop and be in the future, no one can give a fascist response, of course not, because no one is able to see all the changes that will happen in a reasonably short time. So, of course, conversion needs to be done. I believe that we have now come into the situation that the main task of the municipality is to call about what exists, and that thus one does not take the height of population change and increasing needs. More elderly people in the municipality require a greater commitment to care for the elderly. If the municipality does not get the necessary growth in its economy, it will result in a poorer supply for all. For all intents and purposes, we must not create what I call the paradox of the welfare society. The expectations of the inhabitants must be proportionate to the provision provided by the municipalities. The size of the population has, on a number of occasions, placed a great deal of emphasis on the development and continuation of the welfare community. In other words, it has been and is a great political consensus to invest in well-being. The challenge is that there is no political plurality in this room that will address it properly. Other negative factors of a depressed local economy are lack of well-being at work, physical or mental work environment, with many changes, lack of organized jobs and a general demand for greater efficiency. I have a lot of understanding that a lot of people worry about going to work every day. I'm not going to generalise this for a whole lot, because I know that most local authorities work well in their jobs, even if they sometimes feel burnout. These workers are a major resource for welfare production. Older workers are the most delayed in many ways. These problems in relation to our oldest employees are not new, they've always been there. But I think it's now more important than ever before putting this challenge in focus. Older people should not lose their ability to tolerate and understand changes and changes. But then, as responsible authorities, we have to facilitate relations in order to help them achieve a decent end to their professional life. So what can we do? There are no simple answers, but I am convinced that a much better local economy – as the Labour Party suggests – will contribute to a much better working environment for those added to the municipal sector. Therefore, it is important that we also look at these issues on the political agenda when we discuss future issues for the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1146	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1149	On Monday we discussed the study of power and democracy. It raised many important questions relating to the relationship between the State and the municipalities. The reforms implemented in the mid-1980s would increase local freedom of action. However, according to the investigation, the result is that the State has imposed standardised requirements on the municipalities, thus limiting local self-determination. Municipalities are entrusted with a number of new tasks, but they have not been allocated sufficient resources to carry out all the tasks satisfactorily. The requirements for efficiency improvement are increasing. In many cases, the requirement for budgetary balance also in municipalities appears to be more important than keeping an acceptable standard for the population. Also, the use of earmarked funds represents a restriction on local self-government. The economy of municipalities is the choice of social direction, and the attitude shows the differences in social views. We in the Workers' Party believe there is greater freedom of action and security for the individual if the municipalities are financially able to provide quality services to their inhabitants. Care should not be a commodity. It's not hard to balance the municipal budgets if you don't care, and ignore that there are services for people it's about. Only in the upland municipalities in the last year, there's a cut of 190 million. in the budgets, resulting in fewer services for the inhabitants. With the government's financial arrangements for the municipalities next year, further cuts will have to be made, which will sting even more, and which will even more clearly identify the social orientation of the Workers' Party and which right parties will have. Moreover, it is strange that everything in the municipality is ineffective. All the time, it's a self that you have to make more and more effective. It may be time to look at whether the various agencies and departments of the state operate efficiently enough. The person who has been on a nursing home in the village sees that it is not possible to run faster. The employees already provide a maximum amount of services. I would rather have money to provide care services in the municipalities, and give users the security it is to have a hand to hold in, than to have the pockets full of money that I have received in tax relief. Behind each budget cut is the people it's about. That's why I have a challenge for the Council of State, and it's whether she has a good enough overview of what it really costs to have many resource-intensive users in a municipality. They should have a good offer, of course, but for example. in Evennaker, where I live, the cost to resource-intensive users is 11 pst. of gross operating expenditure. It tells us that the entry point of NOK 725000 is too high. I am aware that the scheme will be evaluated, but I ask the Council of State to look at each municipality in order to actually provide additional funds for those who have particularly high costs for resource-intensive users. At least it will increase municipal freedom of action considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1169	More important than overcoming promises of more money to the local government sector is the establishment of distribution mechanisms in the income system that are accurate in relation to the challenges. The government has implemented several important changes in the income system in recent years facing this challenge. The Committee on Income has, among other things: as a task to assess alternative mechanisms at central and municipal level, respectively, which can contribute to greater stability in the expenditure of the welfare service of the financial system for the municipal sector established from 2005 onwards. The Income System Committee has been extended until 1 October of this year. The Christian People's Party has expectations of the work of the sample, and we look forward to discussing distribution mechanisms that provide a better basis for meeting new challenges in the municipal sector. I will nevertheless allow myself to look back in time. When former municipal minister Gunnar Berge visited Akershus about ten years ago, he was asked about the work of the Rattsø Committee on the income system, and whether this would lead to losses for many municipalities. The answer was that no municipalities would lose out on the conclusions of the Rattsø Committee. After that time there was a slight change in the system, but the treatment in this room has since not shown that there is any willingness to change. The majority in this hall has been the guarantor of this promise of no change. Many urban municipalities today experience, as at the time, that the income system does not give the fairness in the distribution of funds referred to in the position of the Rattsø Committee ten years ago. It is alarming that a majority in this Chamber, on the one hand, have decided that the use of discretionary means should be reduced, while, on the other hand, funds for special purposes should be invested in the discretionary means, which reinforce a division of discretion between municipalities and counties. For a long time, municipalities and county councils represent 40 pst. by the population, received 60 pst. by the discretionary scepter. The funds shall compensate for conditions not captured by the income system. If the income system operates so poorly for a group of municipalities and counties that they will soon have to have a large part of the entire discretionary pool, it is high time that the entire income system was retired. In the opinion of many, it would have been more transparent to create a critique system in which the so-called objective criteria had been free from political leadership and geography. Outside the system, policies could be put in place. Then it would be visible to much more people where the money was sent, and how they were affected. The aim of the ongoing and certainly future review of the income system must be to find a fairer distribution of the abundance that, after all, is many places in the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1186	Minister of State Erna Solberg has recently canceled the tax bill as the big campaign case for the Right, and will instead bet on a softer, warmer and more female profile. A good political strategy, you ask me, although there was not a single trace of this soft, female profile in the posts of the Council of State today. Here was the pure word for the money – order in the economy, the right has found the balance point in the local economy, all the appropriations beyond what the government has proposed are irresponsible, wasted, and will only create political contempt. With three and a half years of experience in the municipal sector since the last time I was in Stortinget, I am amazed at the government parties' description of how things stand in the municipalities. Many have order in the economy, it is claimed. Isn't it a problem that 115 municipalities don't have it? And that the order of the economy doesn't order the quality. Has that thought turned down the council? There are a number of municipalities that need to set up hospitals, which need to reduce the number of teachers in school, and which do not see themselves able to maintain the mass of municipal buildings. It's not because the politicians don't want to, but it's because the money doesn't stretch. Being a municipal politician today is an exercise in cutting and dismantling, which is hardly a driving force for democratic development. I think the following should be a prayer from Kommune-Norway: Stop saying efficiency, when you mean cutting. Stop saying modernisation, when you don't go ahead with a good example yourself. The Ministry of Local Affairs increased the number of posts, while the rest of the Municipality of Norway had to cut down. Stop calling it black paint when someone says from there, the whistleblowers are also in the municipality of Norway. Stop saying the municipalities don't try, because they do, I can assure you, but they lack money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1195	In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is regrettable that so much of the funding for education lies within the framework of the municipalities and county municipalities. It's a scheme that gives little security to the students. In initial training, the student is the most important. Municipalities and county councils are less important. That's why we should have a different funding. We should have a funding where the money follows the students. An amicable example of how this system works is linked to the camp school situation. Fortunately, a majority, together with the Progress Party, have now rejected the further inclusion of funds for camp schools. It's a shame that SV didn't have that opinion two years ago, when we dealt with the municipal proposition for 2004. Then SV was there and took away some of the earmarked funds for the camp schools. The effect of this is that the offer has almost disappeared. In many places where it has been maintained, it is such that the parents have to pay. Then we're quite far from what SV says they're committed to defending, that's the free principle in school. So to another case, construction maintenance, which was also mentioned in the previous speech. With different constellations in Stortinget, we have now allocated NOK 10 billion for construction maintenance, and we have NOK 5 billion left on the program that the Government has presented, and which has been a unanimous uprising in Stortinget. An assessment has been included in the municipal proposal, which is a kind of self-assessment. You ask the school owners if they think the buildings are good. It's almost as credible as asking rough riders if they think they're meeting the speed limit. We have today received a new report from the National Audit Office that hits this picture in half, and shows that six out of ten schools are being beaten, as it says in the newspaper today. 58 pst. school builders have a structural condition that is not satisfactory. We're talking about the students' learning environment, we're talking about the working environment for Norwegian school students. Here, there is still a power cap to be taken. It is not that I am acquitting municipalities for blame when it comes to prioritising construction maintenance. There's probably a very different picture. Some may rightly say that they have been in need of funds, and others have not prioritised it. But I want to release the students from punishment. When it comes to settling the guilt issue here, it has an academic interest in students and parents. What's important for today's students is that we get to do something with the building school standard in Norway, which, therefore, regularly boasts of being among the richest countries in the world, but where 58 pst. school builders have a structural condition that is not satisfactory. It's a shame. Here, a power cap has to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1205	Today it's 27 pst. of the blacklisted municipalities — that means they have not been able to balance their budgets. This percentage could be much higher if it hadn't been for that 73 pst. the municipalities have already cut into their bones and reduced and weakened the provision of good welfare services in the care of the elderly and increased parental pay in the cultural schools and kindergartens. In the municipality of Åsne, the municipal council returns 16 years' work and decides a municipal budget with a deficit, because the municipality does not have the heart to reduce the school offer to the children in Åsnes. I say honor be the political leadership of Åsnes. That's the situation for many municipalities in Hedmark. In the municipality of Us in the north-east valley, the municipality uses 14 pst. of the budget to provide the most helpsome a good offer. This is about human dignity and respect for children and young people with great help needs. I am grateful that the Municipal Committee has taken up the economic situation that the municipalities have experienced as a result of offering to so-called heavy users. The actual costs in each municipality were taken into account, and not, as at present, the average of all municipalities, some of the bias would be corrected. No human being or user is average -- we're all people. The local council is, together with the municipality of Stange, the municipality of Hedmark, which has the lowest income. Every year, the municipality has had good financial management, where one has set the pace by industry. The municipality has no choice. It must operate at a similar low cost. Overall, we estimate that the Løten municipality operates its care and care services at 25 pst. lower costs than other municipalities it is natural to compare with. For 2004, Løten municipality reported seven resource-intensive users. If the municipality had performed its care services at the same cost as the comparable municipalities, the remuneration would have been entitled to between 2 and 3 million. kr more from the country in 2004. This means that the municipality is penalised for having low operating costs. In many old-age and sick homes, manning is reduced to the unwarranted: one person on guard at night with 30 old and nurturing. Think about how it wears off mentally and physically all those who work in the health and care sector and who bear all the responsibility alone. We can't have it like that. It is absolutely necessary to transfer more money to the municipalities, so that municipalities get an economy that is proportionate to the tasks they are going to do, for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1222	Norwegian municipalities face a number of challenges that have also widened considerably in some areas over the last few years. We have had a development in mental health protection, where we see that large institutions have built up their daily places, and some offers have moved from the institutions to the municipalities. This means that there are expectations that municipalities will be able to handle tasks that have been more effectively solved in the field of specialist health. Looking at developments in mental health protection, there is a number of worrying developments in daily places. While the number of hospital wards has remained fairly constant with approx. In the case of psychiatric hospitals, 2,940 treatment sites have been severely degraded. In 1996, Norway accounted for about a quarter of the total population. 2 300 daily places on a national basis, while 555 fell in 2003. What you have also seen is that there has been a good deal of professional arrogance in assessing those offers. Many of the offers made in Norway at psychiatric hospitals have been reasonably good for the group to be cared for — lowthreshold services where a place could easily be provided, but where access to psychiatrists or other highly qualified staff has not necessarily been available. In the course of the psychiatry escalation plan, the focus has been on very specialised offers, partly also in the municipalities, and then it has not been seen that the group that was offered in the past has partly lost that offer. I have to say that it is very positive that a majority of the municipal committee has joined the proposal SV took the initiative to identify the overall offer in terms of daily continuous spaces, in order to find out how best to meet the need in the future. At the same time, I think it's nice that not a unanimous committee has joined it. I see that the government parties are not involved in the proposal. It must be proper to have a critical look at this, and from a professional anchoring one finds out how to move forward in relation to these places, and where you are best placed to achieve the most. I record that there is great confusion, also in many municipalities, about how that offer should best be carried out. We see that the escalation plan has had an idea of keeping far more of the psychiatric hospitals than they have now. So that means there's a contradiction between the escalation plan and the degradation that's happened, and what should be the goal. Therefore, it should be expected that the Government will also clarify those objectives further, so that no further reduction is achieved without ensuring that this offer is respected, either by maintaining psychiatric hospitals, by strengthening the district psychiatric centres or by expanding more treatment facilities in the psychiatric wards and in psychiatric hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1233	Karin Andersen claimed in his statement that the Right wants the public sector to appear as secondary. So it's wrong to take. It also falls on its own unfairness. The right provides a better financial balance in the municipal sector. We strengthen the municipalities for the third consecutive year – and most since 1997. At the same time, however, we say that the municipalities themselves must continue their conversion work and make use of their possibilities. Is it that unreasonable? In the Right we want a strong, good and healthy local democracy. We certainly do not get that with the Swedish state policy and detailed management, because the trust in local politicians is low there in the farm. It's a choice of values,' said Karin Andersen in his post. That's right. If SV is controlled, we will certainly see that the overall well-being goes into an uncertain time. One thing is SV's black paint, pessimism and lack of trust in local politicians. However, the worst thing is that SV's economic policy is not linked. It's easy to promise a lot in a community proposition. It's the state budget that binds. It is in the 2006 state budget that SV and the other red-green parties should show their priorities. That's where they have to indicate what they're prioritizing. One does not need to be able to predict that taxes and taxes will increase more and more if SV is involved in managing and managing. For business, it will mean aggravating conditions – poorer framework conditions – that will eventually lead to flagging out and decommissioning, to unemployment and to people experiencing payment problems. Well-being will then be compromised. I think it is disastrous that SV does not see the link between a healthy economic policy and continued safe and well-being. In fact, it is the government with its policy that ensures security for homes, homes and jobs – ensuring security for good well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1248	Yesterday I received a report from the municipality of Lucky Næroset, with a health minister who greets people, and a sign with information about vacant plots in Kuala Lumpur. The limitations of the Lucy Neeroset are few. A pretty big deal even if you want to focus on the positive or on the negative, they were outlaws, and the choice has consequences. At the end of this debate I thought it right to point out that the situation for the municipalities has been better. In fact, KS admits that they get DKK 1.4 billion – in addition to the 1.3 billion changes in the demography – and streamline them as they plan, the operating result is 3 pst. has been reached. So 2.2 billion is sufficient. And I'd like to remind you that from the government's side, the growth interval for free incomes is SEK 1.3 to 2.3 billion. Of course, we want this to be in the upper reaches. We can experience that the municipalities are happy next year – I would like to have ours here and experienced it. KS points to missing maintenance and wants a few billion to it. Missing maintenance is something that hasn't just happened during the Bondevik II administration. Old sins in the municipal sector are now produced as a sub-covery. That's hardly the case. But also here are significant improvements: 1 billion kroner for the maintenance of church buildings and 15 billion kroner for the school – where 10 billion kroner are set aside for consultation – is a lot. It is clear that municipalities may need more money – I am sure they would have used them wisely – but until the age sun comes over Norway, things will be gradually improved, if not large costs are incurred without funding. Furthermore, it is not the case – I would say – that care and well-being have been built up. During this four-year period, there were 16 000–17,000 more people working with the elderly and the sick in the municipalities. That may not be good enough, but there is definitely extra care that will result from it. And the Christian People's Party is – as opposed to SV – not concerned that several of the services have been provided by private individuals. What is important, of course, is that the services are carried out satisfactorily. SV is most concerned that everything should be in the public domain. The Christian People's Party wants a varied offer. Then one will meet more needs and increase the choice for everyone. Because we don't all think alike, we don't want the same thing, we don't have the same needs. For the Christian People's Party, in fact, it is a choice of value to care for the lack and freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1261	I've met a lot of people with life that's crazy. They work double night jobs and can't understand why the municipality's apartments have become so expensive. They spin and toil, but can barely afford rent. Because when taxes go down, then the municipalities go along, And then those who fight are squandered in the sweat of his face. I'm Heikki. from the Socialist Left Party. I want to change the world. create things in the direction of people. People like me, from SV – yes, it is true that we is in pursuit of the right, And then we scare them. At Holmlia there was killed a little boy. Nazis chased and stabbed him to the end of his life. Sad people gathered for a memorial – a beautiful view of the ground, but with hollow bottom. For the promises were given by both high and high that children at Holmlia deserve to have fun. Politicians raised their hands, promised fine and improvement. All young people should be let go. the total humiliation; having a recreational club set up – would never happen again. That's exactly what happens now. in the right-hand side of Oslo. For offers south of Nordstrand can only say good night when people are up in the hill shall exempt property taxes. I'm Heikki. from the Socialist Left Party. I want to change the world. create things in the direction of people. People like me, from SV – yes, it is true that we is in pursuit of the right, And then we scare them. 250,000 people go unemployed. And young people who go free, easily ends up in a doze. They don't see a future. walk away from work, drop out of school. What are they going to do with that? We're different people, but we're going to have equal opportunities. should be the same if it's Ahmmed or Peter. But if you need follow-up of child protection and learn, are you abandoned what is happening in the higher spheres, Because we're here to decide if there's money for him. that need help, need support to get started. But when the teachers stop because the municipalities cut, They're the losers, a bunch of rock-driving boys. Fortunately, the choice for the harvest will show Whether we are rich or poor in the future, for people to decide, And then they must not forget That the money must flow from here to every place. My advice, President, is that people must join in, and the differences in Norway can be reduced. We're tired of right hand rule and more rich, for it is poor in Norway who pay for it. I'm Heikki. from the Socialist Left Party. I want to change the world. create things in the direction of people. People like me, from SV – yes, it is true that we is in pursuit of the right, And then we scare them.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1420	I am sorry that I cannot respond in the same way. I'd rather take the more bureaucratic approach. I'm just going to comment on a few things. First to Arne Sortevik, who thought the Riksrevision method was so much better than the method on which the results of the municipal proposition are based. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are surveys in what the National Audit Office has also done, a self-evaluation from those who are principals, and others that give an assessment. So that's probably in and of course the same method. We can discuss which numbers are the right ones, etc. I agree that one can ask questions by a method where one should give a self-assessment of the state of the buildings. So to Grethe G. Fossum, who said there's fewer employees in the municipal sector. In fact, in 2004, there was 1 pst. activity growth. That was 1 pst. increase in hours worked. It is possible that part of the hours were worked because it was a lower sick leave. But I assume that you do not want a higher sick leave to get more employees in the municipal sector. So it's not like it's less activity. It's more activity. Activity increased by 1 pst. Then there have been many municipalities in Hedmark. But there is one who excels with his absence, the municipality of Rendalen. Rendalene municipality is the largest municipality in southern Norway, geographically speaking. It has at the base of 2,000 inhabitants. So it's a really pig-sucking municipality. It has 4.3 pst. in operating result. They've got $13 million. kr on the book, and they have probably managed every year not to get into a deficit. It has been a tight and good management to get it done. It's been a traditional, good and old-fashioned centre party that's been running, which has meant that holding back is important, because then there's a better rust for the future. I understood that it was not the local spokeswoman of the Central Party that was particularly impressed. Resource-dependent users have been listed by several people here. I just want to say that this model that you are now asking for, the majority did not agree with the previous consideration of this matter. The background at the time was that the municipalities that had the largest cost to resource-intensive users, i.e. those that have an abnormally large share of these expenses, were going to get better out, and not just that they were going to be average. That means we have municipalities that get up to 95 pst. the coverage of expenditure in this area and some municipalities that receive a significantly lower coverage. For the municipality of Sarpsborg, the model that is used here will mean that they will lose 5.7 million. So they're going to have $51 million. kr in expenditure beyond the point of entry today. A municipality of the same size, the municipality of Asker, will make 2.2 million. They only have $12 million. kr in addition to the point of entry for that type of expenditure. It is possible that our system is bureaucratic, but it is actually better for resource-intensive users that the municipality can afford to give them an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1437	For building maintenance: The score is among others that there is a quite significant gap. That is also one of the reasons why, in the form of a comment, we have made a wish to have an independent assessment of this. At least it's obvious that there's a much stronger need than the school owners, those who are responsible for paying, seem. Those who are responsible for the school environment, for the learning environment, i.e. those who run schools with living students, see this in a completely different way. In fact, students have the rights laid down in the Training Act Chapter 9a. I would also like to remind the Council of State of what is also in our note, namely that from 2007 the refund will start to run for those who were first out. Then they've spent their first five years free of charge. When the 10 billions that have now been added to the scheme hit with full weight, it's $0.5 billion a year, based on 20 years of depreciation. Then it becomes noticeable. So we need an answer to give those who hope for a life after the first five years of non-payment. So a few words about private drug treatment institutions. I have not seen anyone talk about them. This concerns the Tyrili Foundation and 40 other private drug treatment institutions, which have also lost their earmarked grants through the intervention of the municipality. In this case, SV and the Advance Party stand together. We are pleased to see that the Workers' Party has now come up with a slightly different idea. The practical consequence of that 35 million. kr, previously earmarked via another department for education, for training, by those in treatment for drug use, is that the offer is in the process of disappearing. That was not the intention at all. The best thing is to return the earmarked money, not to talk about letting them directly follow the individual who is being treated in the institution. But it's obvious to the majority in the Chamber to let money follow the individual. So finally, the ROBEK list has been discussed. It is true that many of the municipalities on the list are now on their way out of it. But maybe we should stop and think a little bit about giving some leads on the way for those who have stood up so badly that they have been on this list and have to be controlled by public and state authorities for their financial positions, and who are almost released afterwards. Then I have to say that unfortunately I have to use my own municipality of origin, Bergen, as a gruesome example. Bergen is still on this list, but has a huge project going on. They want to build an urban runway of NOK 2 billion and are not reluctant to assume an undefined responsibility for an annual operating deficit. ‘Vanweitige’ is certainly an unparliamentary expression, so I’m not going to use it, but it’s very regrettable to let go of public financial management and almost throw yourself into total financial irresponsibility. We should, in fact, also consider whether there should be some leads on the way once you have been settled in your own home.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1450	The President fully agrees with the representative that in this context the word'miserable' is hardly particularly parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1453	It may be that this debate has been marked by both strong expressions and some misinterpretations. For the first time, I would like to reject the representative Sandberg's characteristics of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's party when it relates to funds to the municipalities. He calls the transfers "uncritical" and "non-restricted". That's wrong. What it's all about is means according to the problems. So Anita Apelthun Sæle said that it was “a deception” to say that the tax that was given went to private individuals. I just want to remind you of the overview that comes every year and every five years, and that tells you how income trends are between the 10 pst. which has a minimum of 10 pst. who have the most in this country. She was also busy with heavy users, and that the system that is today is so good. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party are united to bring about a better system, as well as other proposals that will provide more foresight for groups that need special attention in the municipalities. It is good that the Progress Party too has contributed to this today. When it comes to crossbreeds, it's an excellent fight in a time of poor and needy community economics. Our counterattack is the regional advantage of the smaller municipalities, but I see that it doesn't hit everyone, and we come in this way to vote for SV's proposal No. 15th Then it must be said that very good work is done in the municipalities. It also shows a lot of research. The bigger is the wonder that the right is constantly questioning about the work being done, by recommending outsourcing even if one actually has negative experience with it. Finally, it was Bondevik I who initiated the consultation system, and it was the Labour Party who followed it up. This has also been done by today's government. I – and the Center Party – look forward to a more mandatory consultation arrangement. I understand that the Council of State has not come to realize that there are actually some of us in this room who are prepared to focus on what KS says and who want it to be carried forward in a mandatory consultation arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1468	Let me first join all those who have also found light points in the municipal sector. Of course, many municipalities have done a very good job. I think that's what we're going to do more. I pointed out in my main post at a small municipality, Krødsherad, which started a slim/sparing process in 2003, where the result has become very good, without one seeing that the service provision for the rest of the population has been somewhat reduced. 14.5 years' work was removed from the municipality of Krødsherad. I remember the time I was a local government representative myself – I am not yet, but I do not have time to meet. The Labour Party rapporteur then appeared in the media and was proud that he had removed 45 years' work from the Municipality of Levanger in one year. He was proud of it. Actually, he should have been embarrassed, because when 45 years of work was removed, no one in the municipality noticed it. For me, it was a confirmation that for many, many years the municipality of Levanger had had 45 years' work too much, which had gone at the expense of the service. And that's what we're seeing from now, that more and more municipalities have realized this and taken the force to balance. That is why it is so regrettable when, in the kind of debates that we have now, particularly on the part of the Labour Party, both the main speaker and others in the Labour Party, we use expressions such as cutting them down in municipal budgets. Now it's cut in the budgets! That is not the reality. That's the priorities. It moves on funds within a budget. If it had been such a cut in the budgets, the budgets would probably have been reduced, but that's not the actual situation. They're increasing in all municipalities. When you use that expression, you get the impression that the economy is so miserable that there must be some money missing there. I would also like to take the opportunity to reply to the Senterpartiet and Meltveit Kleppa, who accused the Progress Party of having been involved in settlements in the past, and did not follow it up in the budget. We have. In all the contexts in which we have made a settlement in connection with a municipal proposition, we have followed it up. I can show you last year. Then we went further than to follow up: we compensated for NOK 2.2 billion only in lost tax revenue, plus that we got 800 million in place. extra kroner for the municipalities. I think all of us now deserve a sober debate on the municipalities, both in terms of economics and in terms of structure. I just want to end by saying that the only and best solution is the Progress Party model. It's just a shame that it takes so long to fit in with other parties, and one gets a confirmation that it's the right medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1481	Sandberg must have been relatively unconscious in the last time if he has not realised that sick homes are actually being laid down, leisure is being offered, cut into home help and reduced in offers in very many municipalities today. They've tried as long as they can, to maintain an offer that the population wants, but now it's no longer going with the scheme that the Government wants. So to the drug institution training offer, especially in Tyre: it's absolutely right that there's been a change in it, and it doesn't work. It has to be changed, and it is with regret that I have to say that the government has pointed to an emergency solution now that makes you take money from the care of the drug. There are well-known municipalities and county councils that should have paid for training to the users they have at the institutions. The government has decided not to do so. The government has made a settlement, where they have spent quite a few million dollars of the rest of the money, but when it comes to training for people who have managed to get into a detoxification and rehabilitation offer after heavy drug abuse, they don't have the money to do it. They have to take it either from the poverty package or from the care services. I have to say, I'm sorry. In the letter I received from the Prime Minister today, it is said that an emergency solution should be found to this. I sincerely hope that it will be completed. So you have a week and a half. This offer runs Ringzag municipality now, sail if it is not their responsibility. For over a year, the government has known that this is going badly. They have sat with their hands in the trap and took the chance that this would end. It is outrageous, and that matter has to be resolved. The representative Holmberg was up and said that SV was not concerned with a strong local democracy. I'm kind of in the mood for that. SV believes that the local government is fully capable and able to care for and dispose of a larger part of the total economy. We trust them because we think they make better choices than what we do, at least better than what this government does. In addition, it is a little strange that one of the major centralisations in recent years, namely the transfers of hospitals to the state – there are twice as many as there are in framework transfers to the municipalities – should sit and have pointer fingers against SV who want this to be a task that the local government should continue to have. Now health companies have spent quite a few billion dollars. Patients are being treated, and that's good. But it would also have been possible for the county councils if they had received the financial envelopes that the hospitals have received after the acquisition. This is about making use of the possibilities we have, and trusting that the local authorities are actually able to make money. That's what SV trusts.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1499	First, a comment on this with training services in the field of drug rehabilitation, based on the so-called Tyrilic Collective case: now the government has to take its responsibility. It is not possible to stand on the Lunch TV, and to send a letter, but it is now a clarification that comes within a short period of time, which gives predictability both for the care and rehabilitation work there, and at the same time for the municipalities that are now in a quandary because of this. I want to say something more about health, well-being and municipal policy. The decentralization within psychiatry is in many ways good. However, the level of specialist health services needs to retain day-care facilities in a good number, and municipalities need to be able to take care of the psychiatry that is now increasingly being transferred to the community health service. The national hospital's policy for outsourcing is also such that the state is teaching new and heavy tasks to the municipalities. In that case, more resources are needed to provide health care, medical care and care in the municipalities. I also want to take care of the care of the elderly a small visit. We have received a report from the Health Authority that shows terrible numbers of violations of regulations for good care and care. This means that we need to improve the quality of care for the elderly at municipal level. We need to develop our skills in line with what they're doing. In this context, the Senterpartie proposed 40 million. kr in the State budget of the year. It is in line with what, among other things, The nurses' association wanted and suggested that training, further training and perfection be carried out within health professionals, especially in the municipal sector. Resource-intensive users and care providers have been mentioned by several. If those arrangements are to be fully met, the State must go in and take a greater responsibility. If we're going to talk about equivalent offers and relationships first, the state has to be part of such arrangements. Open care today is characterised by fewer and fewer hours for those in need of help at home, and there is a level of care for the elderly in the institution that needs a lift. This means that the local economy must be raised. This also means that we need to put in place instruments in other areas, such as: in the case of medical and dental cover. We don't believe in norms when it comes to the number of supervision hours for doctors in hospital homes. We mean, in line with what, among other things. the Swedish Parliament, when we from the Social Committee were there, said that sufficient resources must be made available so that medical coverage and quality assurance can be on the right side. Otherwise, I am also glad that at least we get a proposal from SV in the field of primary schools, and that we will support it subsidiaryly, in relation to the regional grant scheme that does not receive... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1512	The coastal party is committed to increasing the growth of transfers to municipalities by nearly 10 billion in 2006. This is a lot of money, but we see it as very important that a power cap is taken for the municipalities. The decline in the municipal sector is so rapid that if it continues to do so, significant amounts of billions can be mentioned quickly. That's the calculation on the trailing line. A reduction of NOK 40 billion on maintenance alone will quickly lead to annual extra costs of several billion kroner. This happens while the state waters in money. The economy of the country is inconsistency with that of the municipalities. It is a situation that challenges democracy and weakens the welfare state. This must be done before the political debate is brought to fruition. Many local politicians are seriously wondering what we are doing here on the Stortinget, and they may have every reason to do so. It is this misunderstanding that I think we big-time politicians, for our own part, have to put the search light on. We have been mandated to act as superiors and better-informed in a situation where we are sitting on a large bag of money. The vast majority of municipalities, which are actually closest to the population groups when it comes to providing services, see that they cannot afford to provide the service that we as big business politicians have provided. Then we get a situation where there are elected representatives at the municipal level who, in frustration, add to the great political debate. Different levels of policy are coming into disrepute. As a result, the population may turn its back on policy. The Coastal Party hopes for democracy and politics that this situation will mobilize at the time of the autumn elections. Alternatives to an overall policy are available that show total contempt for grassroots policy. The coastal party is one of these options. We take the people seriously. Against this background, the Coastal Party will vote in favour of the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The coastal party supports the proposals No. 4, 8 and 12, by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and The Coastal Party further supports the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1525	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3043]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1541	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1552	Norway is a diverse country. In Seatesdal, Lofoten, Oslo and Tana there are great differences in cultural life and lifestyle. This is Norway: cities and towns with different roles in national value creation — living societies across the country. Over time, we have seen a significant decline in the population in some districts, particularly along the coast of North Norway. Then, as politicians, we can meet it in different ways. We can see the need for a comprehensive regional policy effort, or we can lower ambitions. Unfortunately, that's what today's government and the majority of the Storing do. When the target is reduced to keep the population at the sub-national level, it is said at the same time that it is sufficient to ensure the population in the major areas of the region. The majority of North Norway has suffered a significant decline in the population in the last twenty years, but the growth in Tromsø City alone has been so strong that overall the region has seen an increase. But is that enough? Yes, say the government parties. No, says the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. It's descriptive. In few cases, we see as far-reaching differences in political views as in today's position on regional and district policy. For this, the communication on regional and district policies is where district policy disappeared. It should hardly be believed that the government has heard of the District Commission, which it itself reduced with great stamina. The notification is not in the vicinity of the District Commission's unanimous advice on strategies. The government weakens ambitions, lacks a clear strategy, weakens regional policy instruments and will not give the regions the strength to create new developments. It shows the need for a new policy – a new majority. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party are committed to the main objective of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern and facilitating equivalent living conditions throughout the country. We want regional and district policies to be based on three main strategies: 1st@item: inlistbox We need to facilitate the development of individual regions by strengthening skills, stimulating innovation and industrial development, reducing distance barriers, developing viable communities and promoting sustainable use of natural resources.2. We need to focus on the development of industrial activities based on the advantages existing in the different parts of the country.3. We need to put in place specific efforts to meet the challenges in the most vulnerable areas. International competition is getting tougher. Norway must not face this through lower wages and poorer working conditions. We need to meet the challenges through knowledge and creativity. Then we can sell our products even if we have a high cost level. To this end, we need to strengthen the knowledge environments of individual regions, to develop decentralised education services, to focus education and research policies on regional areas of activity and to increase efforts to strengthen research and development activities in North Norway by providing targeted programmes to develop the region's advantage to universities and higher education institutions in the region. Enterprise policy needs to become more regional. We need to develop regional value creation environments where there is close interaction between actors. We need to strengthen the interaction between the knowledge environments and business, including: by investing in research parks, knowledge parks, business parks, business gardens and incubators, and we need to develop centres of cooperation between business and knowledge environments to develop world-leading competence. Distance has always been an obstacle to rural development. Therefore, the Workers' Party will strengthen the development of roads, rail, air transport and ports significantly beyond what the Government has set up. New technology is now making it possible to remove essential parts of the distance disadvantages. But it assumes that districts are guaranteed access to high-speed telecommunications networks, and it assumes that the new technology is deliberately used to create jobs in the districts. All Norwegian enterprises and all Norwegian households must be guaranteed access to high-speed telecommunications networks by the end of 2007, with State aid for financing where there is no market basis for expansion. We need to develop communities that are attractive to live in, that make women become, and that make young families stay or move back. There must then be jobs for both sexes, good housing, good welfare, good communication solutions and a wide range of services and cultural services. That is why we must drive an active development of places. In many places, not only will it be possible to offer as wide and varied a range of services as possible, but it will often be sufficient for the range of services available to be found in the region. The development of major labour, housing and service regions could therefore give the region as a whole a greater force. The Working Party will therefore develop regional centres as part of a strategy for the development of strong regions. Small and medium-sized cities also have a very important role to play here. At the same time, efforts towards small communities with a strong decline in the population and a long distance from centres need to be stepped up. A new and more offensive district policy must be based on the economic advantages of each region. We must have a national force in the development of these advantages, not be passive and waiting for development. The state must be active in development, fill the toolbox and use the tool. We need to put in place a national strategy for the development of the fishing industry based on our advantage of access to high-quality fresh raw material. We have to have the ambition to be the world's foremost seammate, not send frozen raw material to China for processing. That's how we have to tackle the possibilities. Similarly, we need to shape a national travel strategy. We need to carry out targeted marketing of Norway as a travel life goal, and we need to see opportunities in other areas as well. Norway must lead the world in maritime research, competence and innovation. We need to develop the petroleum industry in the north in interaction with Russia. This is how we need to address the possibilities for developing a new and comprehensive coastal policy, which makes the coast a driving force for national value creation. And that's how we have to address the opportunities in the interior: travel, cultural and experience industries, industry, biotechnology, bioenergy, and use the knowledge of information security. But then the state must have the will to take on leadership, to pursue industrial policy and to pursue district policy. It is alarming that the Government and the majority in the Grand Duchy are completely ignoring the work of the District Commission. The District Commission proposed to give greater emphasis to regional and regional policy considerations. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party agree. The government is barely offering it a review. The District Commission proposed to strengthen the regional policy instruments. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party agree. The government and the bulk of the population say no! One of the first things this government did was to cut dramatically in district policy. In the most vulnerable area – Finnmark – the instruments are cut by a quarter under this government. International legislation is not preventing a more active district policy. It is the unwillingness of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party! It is now possible to amend the EU/EEA legislation so that we can also reintroduce the most targeted regional policy instrument, the graduated employer fee. Norway must put in place all the forces to reintroduce the scheme. Then it is alarming that the State Secretary responsible for district policy signals that it is not certain that the Government will do so anyway. Is there also a signal that the Government is skeptical in its efforts to change the legislation? We have to use all our power to reintroduce the scheme throughout the area that previously had low fees. At that time, it is critical that the EU Letter Government announces that it is in any case only relevant to reintroduce the scheme into a smaller part of the area that had previously had low fees. It's a completely wrong signal. A third advice from the District Commission was to give the regions greater force in the development process. The government is pushing the question ahead. The Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre believe that regional development policy is so important that the authority must be anchored in a body directly elected by the people and must be continued in three elected levels of government in Norway. Like the District Commission, we believe that it is necessary to decentralise power and authority, especially in areas of major importance for local and regional development, which are suitable for adaptation to local and regional conditions. The Labour Party believes that many of today's county councils are too small to carry out these tasks, and that we therefore need larger and stronger regions. The division of regions must, of course, take account of distances and identities, and it must take place in a process involving both municipalities and current counties. I do not see the need for further evaluation of county municipalities. The Labour Party, SV and the Central Party believe that the Stortinget has sufficient grounds for deciding that there should be three elected levels of government in Norway, that today’s county councils should be replaced by regions stronger than today’s county councils, and that further powers should be decentralised to the regional level. We therefore propose that work be started on preparing for a reform of the regional level in line with this. This setting clearly shows the policy lines. This is a matter of political choice. The government lowers the ambitions for housing in the districts, while the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will have a more comprehensive policy to achieve the objectives. The government is weakening regional policy instruments, while we want to strengthen them. The government lacks a clear strategy, while we will draw up a comprehensive and offensive strategy. Both the Brundtland Government, the Jagland Government and the Stoltenberg Government provided key messages on regional and regional policy. Today, we are discussing the Bondevik Government's report on regional policy. It is not only in the content of district policy that has gone away, it has become jammed in the name as well! It is in itself an illustration of the government's policy!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1627	Good framework conditions are a prerequisite for a well-functioning business. A well-functioning business is once again the basis for maintaining and developing welfare policies. The government’s tax policy has stimulated business, which today expresses greater optimism than when the government took over after the Stoltenberg government in 2001. The recent record of many new jobs is a good example of the achievement of the objective of full employment. It is therefore positive that the Government commits itself to pursuing an economic policy that underpins the stability and development of production and employment in all parts of the country. The aim of regional policy is to take care of the main features of the housing pattern and trigger the potential for value creation in all parts of the country. In contrast to the Red Government option, the Right's clear starting point is that the State does not build the country. On the other hand, it is the task of the State and of this government to pursue a policy that enables individuals, businesses and institutions themselves to function and create values for themselves and for society. Norway is a country with great diversity and diversity. With such a starting point, the instruments used to achieve the objectives of regional policy cannot be the same for all parts of the country. They've got to scrape. Therefore, it is important to delegate powers downwards in central government. Those that are closest to the challenges are and have always been the most capable of finding the good solutions. I cannot fail to note that the rapporteur has tried to write a new regional message with different angles and different content than the one we are about to deal with. It is hardly a theme or an area that is not commented on and elaborated. In our right side, we have not seen the need to review all the overall measures put forward by the Government through several communications this spring. In relation to regional innovation, I would like to highlight three points as very important: the first is to facilitate local relations for existing and new actors in order to succeed in an internationally competitive business environment. Secondly, we need to strengthen entrepreneurship and commercialisation with an added focus on those areas that have a vulnerable business structure. Thirdly, we still need to remove obstacles while establishing more modern solutions for business, so that further new businesses can be established. 80-90 pst. the population lives in different types of urban regions. It's important to take into account. Cities have a very important role to play as an engine for regional development, both by virtue of their own growth and by providing a wider supply of goods and services around the world. In this context, I would also like to point out the importance of the ambition to use the whole country. The development of small and medium-sized cities must be promoted as an important element of regional and regional policy. Cities are a resource for their respective surrounding areas, and it is an objective that they should be attractive alternatives for people and businesses wishing to establish themselves in a city, while being attractive to the surrounding area. The government’s vision is to raise Norway as the most innovative and knowledge-based nation. This is a vision that the Right fully supports. One of Norway’s advantages is a highly educated population. We need to know that. In addition, we need to stimulate the business community and get more people to start their own business. Young Entrepreneurship in school is an action that should be positively highlighted. Another instrument is the TAX FUNN scheme, which is intended to stimulate more research and development in industry. The scheme has been very successful and shows that with the right instruments, it can stimulate development that produces good and lasting results. We must take care of and further develop the diversity of our country. We have the potential for much more than today's raw material production and primary output. It must be stimulated by optimism and faith in its own forces. This is a good starting point when the Government of the message is set to facilitate the development of nutrition also in vulnerable areas with negative population developments. In this context, I refer to the impact of changed criteria on the establishment of business areas, the establishment of state jobs and the relocation of state supervision. There has been a positive development of research parks, business parks, business gardens and incubators in recent years, and it is important to facilitate such an environment where there is a certain breadth of innovation work. We therefore see it as an advantage that it now facilitates the continuation of such establishments, especially in places with a thin and low-capital business environment. So a little about the differentiated employer's fee. First we highlight the good work done by the Government to reintroduce the old arrangement, also in smaller folkets struts in South Norway. I would like to point out that the differentiated employer’s fee still constitutes a large part of the extra effort made by district policy. The compensation for the cancellation of a differentiated employer’s fee also appears to be effective in relation to business needs and priorities and has come in as a particularly positive and significant instrument. State transfers are still largely reserved to the districts. I must point out that the article by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen on this topic was probably not entirely honest. There are two areas in our country I can imagine going in, and that's our north and our capital. North Norway is a high priority in the distribution of specific regional and district policy efforts, and it is due to the specific challenges in the national divide in terms of distance from the market, thin business environment and many areas with a decline in the population. The government's work on the Storting decision to grant 75 million. till Finnmark is well started. It was also explained in previous articles. The first 46 million. kr has been allocated and all the municipalities concerned have contributed positively. The right considers that the remaining funds should also be channelled to create sustainable activities in the municipalities most exposed in Finnmark. A more varied rural policy will capture the specific needs of the regions and thus facilitate a change in the pattern of migration. So to the capital -- almost to the opposite end of the country. The work now under way in the Capital Region is positive. Enthusiasm is reported from all participating municipalities and county municipalities, and it contributes to great progress in this work. In particular, I would like to highlight the SWOT analysis and the study on governance challenges as a particularly important contribution to what is now going to happen in this region, and not least as a contribution to the further work of the Government on the capital message that will be addressed later. Norway’s advantage as an oil and gas nation shall not be underestimated in a regional policy context. The identified gas resources on the socket make Norway a major gas producer over the next fifty to a hundred years. It is positive that efforts should now be made to increase domestic use of natural gas in order to create new industries and new jobs, and we believe that it is necessary to facilitate cost-effective transport solutions for natural gas. It is also necessary to facilitate the supply by gas producers of gas for domestic use. In the past, the size has had thorough debates on these issues, both in the context of the handling of the Landfill Communication on the domestic use of natural gas and in the handling of the Landfill Communication on the innovation activities of environmentally friendly gas power technologies. It's just to enjoy the further development. We do that in Grenland, where I come from, not least because we now see how the Storting Gas Decision has created optimism in the region and in the county. The same applies to other parts of the country where we see a similar good development. I shall finally say a little about the future of the county council, which is also affected in this position. From the Right, we would like to make it clear that there is no need for a strong reinforcement of the government's planned treatment, as some in the Chamber would like. We want to relate to the process that the message adds up to. Finally, I'm just going to quote the councilman Matz Sandman: ‘The worst thing that can happen after the structural debate is that we get a slightly mutilated county municipality and an almost unchanged municipal structure.’ We have to avoid that, and that's why we want to keep the timetable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1666	It is quite important to keep the timetable here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1669	I listened with interest to the case-rapporteur, Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen. He repeated several times that the wishes of the Workers' Party differ significantly from those of the Government in terms of future administrative structure. But I heard nothing about what the Workers' Party wanted in terms of the governance structure of the future, at least not in terms of content. The red-green option has gathered on indications of some future regions. That in itself is very interesting when we know that these three parties differ significantly as to what they want for the content of the future regional structure. That in itself is an interesting debate. It is not parliamentaryly correct to say that someone is cowardly, but I want to ask the Labour Party to be much more clear and concrete in relation to what you want with future regions, for the only clear, concrete signal I get from the Workers' Party is that they want new regions. What is now on the table, and what has been said by the case rapporteur and the Workers' Party in general, is that they want new county municipalities. And then the question is, why are you going to get larger county municipalities, why not just maintain or go back to the 1976 decision, if that's what you want? The history of the structural debate in Norway is diverse and the debate has been going on since World War II, especially in the area of municipal structure. We've had investigations, commissions and committees up and down. I've tried as hard as I can to find out all the investigations from these committees and the commissions, but we never got anything concrete, except for a slight change in the municipal structure in the early 1960s. I feel that we're in exactly the same track now, we're talking and we're discussing and we're debating, but then we're not afraid to take the grips that are strictly necessary to get an efficient and rational government structure in 10-15 years. I'm afraid that the pace that the government is putting up with, but that also the red-green option will have to add up to to possibly come to an agreement, just means to pull it out more and more in time. That burden is first and foremost for those who are employed in these organs, who suffer, and then for the inhabitants. I would say that the progress of both the Government and the red-green option here is unprofessional. It's unprofessional, and it's unprovable. I cannot blame for the fact that it is an election campaign either because this debate has been going on for so many years. A change in the structure in Norway is strictly necessary and the Progress Party has the solution. We are promoting a concrete solution today – and we are not getting the support of anyone here, not even from the Right – and that is that we are now deciding that in the future there will be two levels of government, done with it. If the Storting could have decided, we could have finished it, and then we could have planned it. Here we have also taken care of something that all parties are concerned about, local democracy, and the possibility that municipalities have to influence. By lowering the county municipality, there are two levels of government. Then the municipalities, well, notice if someone gets a different municipal structure, can get delegated power from this house and also from the ruined and abandoned county municipality. But there are no signals, at least it hasn't been the last year. There is no signal from SV, the Center Party or the Workers' Party to give more power to the municipalities. The red-green option has gone in the opposite direction in the last year. The Progress Party had a comprehensive, well-developed and reworked proposal here to deal with intervention in the State's right of objection. That's what the municipalities are struggling with. They're not allowed to make their own decisions, although they know their communities. The working party is the strongest opponent of it, together with the Center Party, surprisingly. Such a small, simple matter as allowing the municipalities themselves to decide the use of snowmobiles within their own borders, these representatives would not even allow. Yes, how then can these representatives think that the municipalities can take any other responsibility, when they cannot give the municipalities this little responsibility? It makes no sense to me. We now need to build a future structure with two levels of government, with larger, stronger and competent municipalities that gain power and influence – based on growth in their own region. In terms of growth, business creation, research, land use and infrastructure, there are areas in which the large, strong, new municipalities now have to have access – but the red-green option will not. I demand the efforts of the Government in that area. That's the way we have to go. But no one is signalling that they are interested in giving a fraction of power to the municipalities, but they want the opposite. The red-green option will have new regions with more power. Power from whom? Yes, power from the municipalities. Then one more step into the local right of self-determination. And then one in parentheses says that one is going to get some power from the state too, but this house has proven that it wants one not. If we're going to think ahead, and if we're talking about local self-determination, we have to first of all accept that there are differences. There must then be differences between the new municipalities. When I say new municipalities, I base it on the municipal structure around the ABS areas. It doesn't necessarily have to be locked down, but I think that one should start at zero in order to draw the right municipal boundaries, based on the ABS borders and regional advantage in relation to business development. Then we have to accept differences other than those relating to the provision of services directly to the population, and therefore we have to disconnect it from the new structure. The state must then go in and take direct responsibility for the economy in relation to health, school and care for the elderly. I know many people have difficulty understanding such a system, but in the future society will be no less mobile than it is today. People want to move a lot more. The boundaries mean less and less between municipalities and between borders, and therefore it is strictly necessary, if we are to provide services to our citizens, that the money must flow more and more, as a demand for services. For me, it becomes a little bit small when the case rapporteur – and I also expect later articles here today – places great emphasis on the fact that the governance structure of the future should be based on growth and advantage and on the basis of strengthening the right of self-determination, when it is actually proven to be the opposite. To me it gets very strange. The Progress Party has two proposals here today. We believe that these are good proposals, and we know that there is a majority for these proposals in the Chamber. There are a majority of these two proposals in the Chamber today, but once again we are in the situation that despite investigations – the Schei Committee, at the end of the 1940s, the Kristiansen Committee, the Rattsøs I and II, the Task Distribution Committee, the District Commission, the Power Commission and the Power Investigation – there will be no world thing out of it, because no one dares to take the initiative to make any real decisions that will ensure that we change the governance structure of the future. It's a shame, but I admit this is the case. I hope that large sections of the election campaign will have such content that we can have debated and discussed the distribution of power between the levels of government and the people's deserved services, that is, what they want both from the red-green option and from the Government. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1690	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1693	SV will have a boost for regional and regional policy, because there are many unused opportunities across the country, and because there are many human resources that can also flourish more than they do today. It's a responsibility that big business and government have, to give all parts of the country equal opportunities to evolve and give everyone equal opportunities to evolve. In that case, greater efforts are needed in many areas of policy. It is necessary to establish a policy based on local and regional advantages and to provide room for building up and supporting around it. It is necessary for the state in its own policy to take regional policy considerations into account when dealing with all issues. If you want to know what things become, you have to figure out how things work in practice. When policy in many areas is centralising, it has to be made visible, and tools that can counteract it have to be put in place — if you are engaged in a good rural policy. This means that we need to replace the Government's unilateral market and competition strategy with a cooperation and coordination strategy where we see how things work together. The government's policy is a little bit to make each unit pay for itself – almost every phone booth will pay for itself, and soon every person will pay for himself. We know that in those areas of the country where there are fewer people and smaller businesses, it is important that the businesses that are there cooperate well, and that you look at what is most optimal by cooperating. If you expose all parts of society and all parts of the country to fierce competition, businesses will end up in central strata. It is simply not possible to win that competition in many parts of the country. Then you lose the resources that lie in the diversity that everyone says they'll take care of. I want to show that there have been three major investigations, or should have been, on the basis of the regional communication we have received today. One is the Impact Committee’s investigation, which demonstrates how the use of the drug has been. In 19 policy areas, in virtually all sectoral policies that they have gone through, regional and district policies have become smaller over time. This sample has been identified. And in practice, it seems that there is less going on in the regions and districts. The Action Space Committee shows how Norway is bound by international agreements in some areas, including district policy. It is enough just to remember that the differentiated employer fee became known illegally by the EFTA Court, despite promises made by the political majority that this should not be the case. But that's the way it was. But what the Action Space Committee points out is that we have far more opportunities than what we use today. We have far more opportunities for supporting enterprises in a number of areas, and not least we have far more opportunities when it comes to regional planning, i.e. resources that can go to infrastructure, resources that can go to research, resources that can go to education and resources that can go to start cooperation between businesses and between businesses and the public to find good synergies and to trigger new opportunities. So there's a much bigger room for action than what we're using today. Of course, there is political disagreement as to whether or not to use this space for action. The Working Party, SV and the Centre are of the opinion that the action room should be used. The government is focusing on traditional right-wing policies, with tax incentives for companies that are doing well, as the best solution. We know that some companies do it very well, but there are a lot of companies that could have had life's right, and that should have it, that can't start up or live on. On the other hand, SV wants us to focus a lot more on the organizational means, which allow all people to use their abilities and resources, through a good education and research policy. We also want to support companies, both in start-up and conversion phases, with grants and capital. In particular, it is important to point out that too many parts of the country have a weak capital supply. Therefore, it is important to also have funds that can support in the development of those parts of the country where the usual banks and other participating interests do not appear to be so deserving to be present. If you want to use the resources that are all over the country, you actually have to do that. There has been a principle in Norwegian industrial policy for a time called business neutrality. This is a strategy that SV thinks we have to give on the boat, because we have to address regional advantages and the needs we are looking forward to, which are important for both regional and regional reasons and other reasons. I'll take an example of this. It is an area where Norway and the world face major challenges in the future, and environmental policy and the ability to produce more environmentally friendly energy. At the same time, we see that there are some industries in the country that are a little downturn, namely the traditional forestry and agricultural industries. We also see that in those areas of the country where the traditional forest and agricultural industries are heavy, there is also no specific part of the large technology and job development associated with the gas and oil sectors. There is also not much fishing and aquaculture in inland areas, but there is a lot of bioresources and forests. It is very gratifying that an overall committee now stresses that one wants a bet, a big bet, on the development of bioenergy in the future. That means you can get a solution to a lot of important problems at the same time. I am not able to see a single negative effect of such a bet. It is a reality that the development of bioenergy provides many jobs. Bioenergy is a major industry in Sweden. There it is produced approx. 100 TWh now, and that's 25 pst. of the country’s energy use, which is almost as much as the average Norwegian hydropower generation. In the Nordic energy market, bioenergy is already greater than hydropower, but Norway is on its heels. This, in addition to creating many jobs, will provide us with environmentally friendly energy and technology development in areas of the country that are a little disconnected from elsewhere. It will also help maintain the agricultural landscape, and it is very important for other regional industries, such as agriculture. Travel life, which depends on the fact that it is not just forest and runs around the country. We know that it's actually going to be thousands of jobs if we put in tools to get this into. Therefore, it is very gratifying that now, at least in this setting, there is agreement on this. There must be some means in place to get it done, of course, but so was the case when Norway became a hydropower nation. Then it was not like putting your hands in prison and waiting for it to happen, no, it was a brave initiative. The State and the municipalities contributed, they also linked to other participating interests and made it happen. This was the case when Norway became an oil and gas nation, and it must also be when Norway becomes a major producer of environmentally friendly energy. North Norway, and in particular Finnmark, is facing major challenges in the future. It is the area of the country, with the exception of a few other municipalities, that has experienced great depopulation, and that has experienced a very large decline in the number of jobs, especially those related to fishing. SV is working on a special growth plan for North Norway. It will include a number of actions in a wide range of societal areas to address the opportunities available in Northern Norway, for opportunities are high. I'll briefly say a little bit about the education sector. Education is incredibly important, especially in areas where there are little people. People are the country's most important resource, everyone agrees. 77 pst. of our future resources are the human resources. So it's really not the natural resources that are the basis for future growth. This must mean that the processing of the most important resource, both in terms of education and health, is a crucial factor in succeeding in the future. It's very important in those areas where there are little people. It is important that those young people who grow up in parts of the country where there are not very many people get at least as good access to education as those who live in central districts, and that it is possible to get education without necessarily having to move. That is why I want to stress the importance of regional colleges. I would like to stress the importance of now being able to get a research effort – which we will be discussing later today – linked to both regional universities and to all universities, and that it is also possible to set up research policies to meet those parts of the country that it does not meet as well today. These are schemes such as: TAX FIND. When it comes to education, I would like to highlight one important area, and it is decentralised higher education. It has been implemented with great success in several places in the country. What is then achieved is that, in particular, adult people who have started their careers but who want to continue their education — perhaps because there is a need for more skilled labour in different areas of the local environment — are given the opportunity to take such training without having to leave. For many who have established themselves with houses and homes and kids and perhaps a spouse who is working, it's not to have to move out of the farm to take an education of maybe two, three or four years a chance. It has been shown that this tool is very good. People take education, people do it very well, they do it much better than the average in colleges. If such types of decentralised higher education centres are established across the country, it is possible to reduce education from different educational institutions, both universities and universities in Norway, and also in other countries, and to provide high-quality education across the country. This will make it possible in a much better way to improve the ability of both the small communities and the individual to cope with the different kinds of life. It's clear that having an education, and not least having gone through an education and knowing that you actually did this, makes you know that you might be able to cope with other challenges in life as well. It is incredibly important that we now put in place a funding mechanism for decentralised higher education to strengthen and expand these offers, and that a funding system can be put in place to ensure that there are people in the local community who have the resources to sit and coordinate this – to identify the needs of the local environment and scan the education market to find out what kind of education it is actually offered. It's incredibly important. So to the drug use. SV is very concerned that the businesses that are established have been very successful. That shows the results. They've been particularly successful in terms of women's bets. We are therefore amazed that there is no majority in favour of continuing the basic appropriations available to the business community, so that they can actually continue to provide opportunities for the new businesses throughout the country. That they should run stores and perhaps occasionally also compete with the companies they are with and establish does not work properly. SV wants the basic funding they have to be continued, and we consider making it permanent, because it is an instrument that works. Finally: SV wants a regional reform. SV has innumerablely proposed to decentralise tasks to a regional level. SV has proposed trials with larger regions. SV believes that there is a need for a popular level between the state and the municipalities. But, of course, the level must have more tasks than the county councils have today if they are to be able to carry out the regional and district policy that SV has ambitions to put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1739	First, I want to go to the previous representative, Karin Andersen, who said it so that each person should ‘reward’. I would like to stress strongly that this is not the government's policy, and not the Christian People's Party's view at all. This government emphasizes that individual human beings have their unique value. Man is a goal in itself and not a means. I would like to return to the first speaker, to Schjøtt-Pedersen, who said that the proposals of the District Commission were not dealt with in the communication. When I was in consultation with the head of the District Commission, he expressed his satisfaction with the regional announcement and what was in the municipal proposition. So to me, it seems like we haven't been to the same hearing. The Regional Communication bases the vision of the District Commission on its district and regional policy. It will further develop attractive and viable communities through an active and competitive business and equivalent service provision across the country, with a view to maintaining a level playing field in the pattern of housing. Norway is a country with great diversity and diversity. Through regional and district policies, it is important to preserve and develop this diversity. The main strategy of the Christian People's Party is to establish framework conditions that are so good that businesses, capital and labour remain in Norway, and that foreign investors want to invest with us. A responsible economic policy is important in order to ensure competitiveness. In this context, low interest rates, competitive exchange rates and lower taxes are very important. This is also underlined by the District Commission. The economic policy pursued by this government has contributed to this. This is good district policy. We will focus more on regions and centres with growth potential. We will strengthen growth and at the same time ensure a basis for good living conditions in all parts of the country. The Christian People's Party will highlight the importance of regional innovation systems and clusters for regional growth. The aim is to strengthen cooperation between the knowledge environments, regional institutions and business. It is a challenge for research and education institutions that they function too poorly as suppliers of knowledge to the business community. We will give priority to instruments that can help strengthen the capacity for innovation and re-establishment in all parts of our long-term country, with a focus on entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. The Christian People's Party will delegate more responsibility and more tasks to the underlying level. The objectives and strategies of national innovation policy must be based on the strength of regionally anchored resources and advantages. The Christian People's Party is saying yes that political decisions are taken near the point. We therefore want to delegate more responsibility downwards in central government and to decentralise more responsibilities and tasks to the local government sector. Different regions and different municipalities require different solutions. We believe that municipalities and regions themselves know best what is right for them. We need to operate in all parts of the country to ensure the total value creation. Raw materials withdrawals and primary production in districts form the basis for large parts of value creation. There's too much potential here! Belief in your own strengths and opportunities is important to trigger innovation and growth. The value creation is the basis for further developing our well-being. Norway is a high-cost country with good welfare, and most have good income. Climate, geography, cost levels and great distances affect our competitiveness and our prerequisites for maintaining our welfare society. Globalisation is a challenge. Norwegian companies must meet this by taking advantage of their own advantages. Employment and housing have increased in urban areas, while there has been a decline outside urban areas. It is therefore necessary to pursue a policy that provides a better balance between housing and the exploitation of valuables in all parts of the country. Cities act as engines for the surrounding area. I am pleased that the Research Communication, Will for Research, which is being discussed later today, provides for the strengthening of research efforts in Norway. It is important that research should contribute to the creation of value added, new businesses in all parts of the country. The FUNN tax scheme is a good arrangement for the enterprises. And the Christian People's Party is pleased that a decision has been made to set up four new seed funds. I would also like to raise the issue of SIVA, which is an important player in regional policy and industrial policy. I am pleased that, in the revision, an additional allocation of 38 million has been proposed. kr. Efforts at empowerment through projects such as the Centres of Expertise, the Centres for Research-driven Innovation and the Innovation Lift North are exciting. For me, coming from the north, it will be exciting to follow what comes out of the ‘Innovation Lift North’. Petroleum industry is an important industry, which can mean major changes and innovations in the northern part of the country. Norway must participate in the development of the north petroleum activity in interactions with Russia. Interaction with Russia is an important strategy for success in the Barents Sea. Norway must be a driving force in the development of industries in the Barents Sea. This applies not least in important areas such as safety, environment and offshore. The government has been active in clearing up nuclear issues in North-West Russia. The Christian People's Party is in favour of increasing the domestic use of natural gas to create industry and new jobs. It is necessary to facilitate cost-effective transport solutions for the gas and to create the domestic market for it. I would like to point out that the previous matter we are dealing with here today is closely related to the regional communication. In the municipal proposition, the division of tasks between the administrative level, the need for a nationally elected intermediate level and the geographical breakdown of municipalities and an intermediate level has been discussed. I look forward to a comprehensive and thorough review of the entire governance and management structure. I record that the majority in Stortinget wants to do something about this work. Appropriate administrative structures are important to adapt to the tasks involved, and it must be difficult to organise and divide the various activities. It is necessary to see the different State sectors as a whole. Better interaction and contact between central government, state and local authorities is important. I would like to stress that a new governance structure must be filled with real power and exciting tasks. Finally, I would like to underline that St.meld. No 25, Regional policy needs to be seen in the context of other key policy messages that have been addressed this spring. This is important as regional policy is cross-sectoral. I have to agree with Innovation Norway, which in consultation with the Municipal Committee concludes this: this is a good communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1777	The last speaker at the morning meeting is Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. Meltveit Kleppa has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. The President suggests that we – if necessary – extend the meeting a little so that Mr Kleppa can complete his post. - It's taken for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1781	The government should have a very good basis for creating a regional message with the current selection options. I am thinking of the District Commission, the Power Selection, the Action Space Selection and also the first part of the Local Democracy Commission. Unfortunately, we can see traces of the advice given in these documents. I would like to refer to the comments in the Working Party, SV and Center Party settings, which are clear alternatives to what the Government provides. We have common more ambitious goals when it comes to building, –we want to keep up with the main features of the construction pattern, but think there is a need for an alternative policy, a more offensive district and regional policy. The central part will go beyond the common notes that we are in the hands of SV and the Labour Party. We have even higher ambitions – far higher ambitions – on behalf of the different regions and districts. We presented an own document at our national meeting that had the title: The Great District Lift. Some of the areas that I want to enter, find one there. I don't have time to go into everyone, but I don't have time to go into them. it addresses a ten-point plan to secure a young perspective on regional and regional policy, i.e. attractive areas with youth opportunities in a different way from today. The centre party wants a national business strategy. We will systematically facilitate the further development of business across the country based on natural resources, capital strength and knowledge. This implies that the principle of nutrition neutrality must give way to bets in clearly defined areas, such as: marine and maritime industries, sectors such as energy, petroleum, tourism, food production, wood processing and ICT. We want to bind the country better together. I'm pointing out that we want to build multiple roads, cf. National transport plan. We want a road maintenance plan -- there's now a $1 billion lag. We want not only broadband expansion, but also equal price to everyone before 2007. We want free ferries. The holidays are the road too many in this country – I remember it. Free shuttles are a long-term goal from the Center Party's side. Maintaining the airport network is important, marking fairways, and, in fact, ensuring better mobile phone coverage is crucial for some companies in the districts today, and, of course, also for a number of individuals when it comes to choosing the bus’s location. Then we want to strengthen the good arrangements that are today when it relates to the instruments of economic development. We want to reintroduce the differentiated employer fee, i.e. that we want to secure the business environment, and we want to reintroduce the Municipal Food Fund. For us, it's a big paradox that the nutrition funds, which led to 1,810 jobs and 970 businesses every year, are cut. There was an error. The following funds need to be reintroduced. Then we want some new arrangements. We want our own founder bank to strengthen existing schemes for start-ups. A more offensive instrument is needed than today, and such a bank can be managed in a combination between the regionally elected level and Innovation Norway. We also propose regional industrial funds, an own capital base of DKK 20 billion, where returns can be used in cooperation between business operators and private investors. We think that will trigger a great potential for value creation around the country. We are very pleased that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are united on a national initiative for small communities beyond what the Government proposes. We want a national centre to take care of both the outreach programme, the small-scale community initiative and the rural development programme to further focus on viable business and housing in the districts. So we want to create a value-creating program for fresh fish by modeling the value-creating program for agriculture, which every year helps to develop new products before that industry. We want more resources for regional research institutes. They should have extra basic permissions. In the past, there was a good and fair regime called “cargo equalisation surcharges”. It is also liquidated. We'd like to see a multiple to reintroduce such an addition. So if we want to create something we call a district monitoring body, one can shorten it to DSA, an ESA, but located in Norway and focusing on Norway and Norwegian district policy, which takes care of district interests, which ensures that political authorities facilitate a positive development in the districts and make the right choices, and that also pushes facts towards the eel, for the media and politicians. I refer you to a full note about that. We also want to introduce a guarantee of subsidiarity for food and emergency services. We know that it is not possible in our long-term country to ensure that no one gets more than two hours' travel time to the food and emergency department, but we believe it is right to have such a target, and that there must be a good supply for the pregnant women where this is not possible – this in relation to the constant focus on the centralisation of hospital services to which this government is contributing. Our proposal for a break is a proposal to prevent recycling. We like other creative suggestions to secure an active travel life, and then the fight against regrowth is important to our country. Then there has been a debate here on a regionally elected level. The central party believes that there is a very good and sustainable argument for a regionally elected level that takes decisions beyond what the individual municipality, the individual generalist municipality, should take care of. But for us, it is then an important commitment that we clarify tasks, responsibilities and authority, and that we are willing to transfer power and authority from the state level to the regional level. That is why we have seven specific points on which tasks we think should be transferred. We don't see any reason to get this kind of clarification in time. That is why we support a proposal for clarification of principles during 2006. And then finally. I was the case spokesperson in connection with the previous regional message. It's every four years we have such a discussion of principles. I must say I am surprised at a party with which we were very close in many comments and suggestions, namely the Christian People's Party, and that changed as they have led. Today, they are going to distance themselves from proposals they have even published in their program, but they cannot support them here. I'm taking up the suggestions from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-06-16.ana.ud1452e1819	The representative Magnhild Meltweid Kleppa has drawn up the suggestions she made well for. Then we take a break in the negotiations, and see the meeting again at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
