ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e32	Two permit applications are available: from the Central Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from 1 March onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Group on the leave of care of the representative Olav Akselsen from 2 March to 4 March These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Endre Skreisestad, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Hordaland: Pål BarrefjordFor the county of Rogaland: Magnhild Eia
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e69	Magnhild Eia is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e83	As the rapporteur, Olav Aksensen, does not have the opportunity to attend today's meeting, I would just like to say briefly on behalf of the case rapporteur: this is a unanimous vote by the Committee on the capital expansion of BaneTele. It is recommended by a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e88	It is an overall committee that supports the Government's proposals for raising capital in BaneTele, on which Vice-Chairman Grethe Fossli was present. It is also a unanimous committee that believes that the issue of future ownership and organisation should be dealt with as a matter of its own. In the treatment of broadband communications exactly one year ago, there was an overall increase that gave strong leads to the development of new BaneTele. There is broad agreement that the company should be built into a nationwide and fully-fledged competitor of Telenor, and that the company should have the right to have a comprehensive national network structure and deliver end-to-end solutions for broadband capacity. – It was felt clearly fixed by a significant majority when we dealt with the broadband message. Time is running out, and many are waiting for the Government to make a proposal for the Storting taking into account the leadership and decisions resulting from the processing of this notification. There is a significant need for BaneTele to offer the market electronic transport from end to end so that operators can have a real alternative to Telenor throughout the transport route. This is important both for competing players such as TDC Song, Tele2, NextGenTel and others, and for companies and public institutions that want broadband to meet their own communication needs. It is a fact that the prices of telecommunications services in Norway are too high for people most compared to other countries. Therefore, companies that wish to compete with Telenor depend entirely on the existence of alternative infrastructure that allows for independent and free pricing in terms of the inputs that different actors rely on. Despite the fact that many new broadband players are established, the market analyses of the Post and Telecommunications Authority show that Telenor remains the fully dominant player in all 18 markets analysed. When examining the State budget for the current year, it was a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre, which argued that it is urgent to build a comprehensive national network structure, which may appear to be a full-fledged competitor of Telenor on a national basis. These parties also believed that the Storting must have the opportunity to deal with the matter of BaneTele's future during this spring. That is why, as the Progress Party sees it, it is very regrettable that the issues of ownership in BaneTele have still not been resolved, and that unresolved contractual relations are the government's argument that the matter takes so long. It's been one year since Stortinget said his name. Even if the state has 100 pst. ownership of BaneTele and the Railway Agency, there has been no case for Stortinget. This is very negative, because it limits competition and the diversity of offers in the market. This also weakens the Government's policy on the widest possible broadband deployment based on a functioning market. The other day, VG made a number that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade was in jumbo place in the number of cases submitted to Stortinget in the spring session. Here the ministry really has an important and popular case that it can put resources in, so that we can get a quick presentation. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State: how long are we going to wait, when we have such a raging development in the telecommunications and communications market internationally? When can we expect this important matter to be followed up with a proposition for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e109	I was a little surprised by the last article from the representative Hedstrøm. I think he talked more about a matter we haven't got to Stortinget. He drew some conclusions in terms of broadband supply and competition that are far from adequate for the picture we see, and the situation that we actually have in this area of development. But when we look at this issue of capital increase in BaneTele, which this case is actually about, what the Storing is doing today, in many ways, will help decorate the bride for the further journey that BaneTele is going to take. And I think that not least BaneTele and developments in the entire broadband area in Norway will be very well served by taking the time needed to ensure that competition in this market can be as optimal as possible. There's no need to rush into this area, because in many ways it'll be doing the broadband sector a bear service and not least lead to less money left, when we're talking about the price that's going to be put on BaneTele at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e116	I note that there is agreement between all the parties in the nutrition committee to support the Government's proposal to provide BaneTele 120 million. kr in new share capital. I am pleased, and I believe that this is an important element in following up the Storting's comments and decisions in connection with the broadband message that was dealt with by Stortinget last year. During the examination of the broadband notification, the Stortinget provided clear guidance on the role of BaneTele AS in the development of the broadband market in Norway. These leaders are, of course, central to the government’s management of the state’s ownership of the company. The activities of BaneTele, which have also been mentioned by several, are the operation of fixed and wireless telecommunications infrastructure. The company is a content-neutral provider for transport services for electronic communications. I agree with what the representative Hedstrom said, that the company is important to ensure real competition in this sub-market. In a future-oriented industrial policy, good infrastructure and competition in the market is also an important element in reducing the indirect costs of Norwegian business. A prerequisite for the development of BaneTele as foreseen by the majority of the Stortinge is clear commercial contractual relations with the Railway Agency. It is therefore positive that this is now in place by means of a settlement agreement signed by the parties on 18 February of this year. Then you also know what the content of BaneTele will be in the years to come, and it will give the company a real opportunity now to do what is necessary to position itself in this market. The broadband market is in strong development. BaneTele needs to invest a lot in order to meet customers’ needs for infrastructure services. BaneTele’s liquidity and equity, as I have assessed, were not sufficient to carry out the necessary investments. The capitalisation that the Storting will adopt today will enable these investments to be made in the future, but it will also be necessary to allow the company to restructure further and also to assess future alliance partners. It is obvious that the Stortinget will be presented with this matter when, in agreement with the department, the company has moved forward in this process and there is a proposal on the table. Then Stortinget will be able to decide what comes on the table. I have stressed the danger of significantly weakening competition in this market if BaneTele is unable to implement the investments it is now opening up. It is therefore important to get this capital. The investments offered by the proposed capital increase are, in the company's opinion, profitable. This means that the country's shareholder values are properly safeguarded by carrying out such an increase in capital. In my view, an up-to-date BaneTele will also strengthen the conditions for establishing industrial solutions where the company is included. The government has therefore proposed 120 million in the proposal. kr in increased capital to strengthen the company's potential in the future. The proposed capital increase will be a step towards enabling BaneTele to reach the ambitions of the State in terms of its role in broadband development. Therefore, BaneTele’s basis for playing an active role in the development of the broadband market as a content-independent supplier on a commercial basis will be strengthened by this Decision. It is good for the company that the Storting has dealt with this matter quickly. I thank you for that. A decision on capital increase, as the Economic and Social Committee has now joined, is a step in the right direction. At the same time, this alone is not sufficient to achieve all the objectives set by Stortinget in relation to the treatment of broadband communications. I, in cooperation with the company's board of directors, will continue to work to find solutions where, through cooperation with other market actors, BaneTele can develop further on the basis that is now available. And as I said, the Storting will of course be presented with such a possible solution. The aim is to achieve a good industrial solution that is also robust in the demanding market. In a future-oriented industrial policy with an increased focus on innovation, BaneTele will play an active role in contributing to competition in the future. In addition to the other elements that are in relation to the budget for the current year, where the Progress Party and the Government Parties agreed, where there is a sharp increase in nutrient research, which also facilitates the increase of seed resources associated with the university cities in addition to the district-oriented seed resources, and where the government parties have an agreement with SV and Inge Ryan, I believe that we also have an offensive industrial policy in this area – as the Stortinget has adopted in the context of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1669]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e155	Although this is a unanimous committee position, I think it is important that we link some words to why the Storting agrees to a postponement of the ratification of this ILO Convention. This is therefore a decision in the ILO, and Norway has taken part in the decision to introduce a certificate of identity for seafarers. However, following that decision, it has been demonstrated that the implementation of the requirements of the Convention to Norwegian seafarers will entail significant costs for the purchase, production, training, technical and administrative operation, issue and control of such evidence. A consultant report has estimated the cost of a seven-year period to approx. Forty-four million. kr. This is a lot of money, and the Maritime Directorate told us in a hearing, where the Maritime Association and the Shipowners Association were called, that they have now started working together with several other European countries to design such evidence. They therefore asked through the Ministry for a postponement of ratification of this ILO Convention until it had been resolved and until a satisfactory system of proof of identity had been established. This seemed to the Committee to be a sensible proposal by the Government, assuming that this is only a postponement of ratification, and that the Government will return to the Grand Government with it as soon as this is resolved. That is why there is a unanimous vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e164	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e172	Then the Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the two matters on the map of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-01.ana.ud1243e247	There is no record.
