ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e31	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e57	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Councillor Lars Sponheimstaatsrådet Laila Davavøstatsrådet Svein Ludvigsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e76	We got a halve of food tax on 1 July 2001, but this reduction is now completely consumed in terms of higher food prices. Food prices in Norway are rising more than overall price trends, while food prices in our neighbouring countries are falling. We got a budget agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party last fall where we got through a reduction of the food tax of 1 pst. But now it turns out that food prices are rising, when we were to expect a decrease. For the Progress Party, it was a prerequisite that this should mainly benefit consumers. Doesn't the Council of State and the Government mean the same thing? What will the Council of State do to ensure that consumers have their rights in the form of lower food prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e83	Let me first say that the food tax was reduced from 1 January 2001 – I guess so – and it had an immediate effect. That decrease of 12 pst. produced a rather immediate effect, with a price reduction of about 9 pst. The figures I'm sitting with today show that the significant part of the reduction has benefited us consumers, but not everything. There is also a background for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food asking for and ordering a margin survey to get an overview of where in the chain the rest of this reduction has disappeared. The margin survey has been commissioned by the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Economic Research. We've been waiting a long time for it. It has been difficult for the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research to have access to the necessary data in the chains. It's taken months. They didn't want to deliver this number material. It was actually above the table in a debate in the NRK's position that they bowed down to me and said they were willing to release the necessary information so that the authorities can see where the margins have gone. It was Rema 1000 who was unwilling. Only in the TV programme were they willing to say that the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Research will have access to this. I'm assuming that in a short time, a few weeks, we'll get this number material. But still, according to the information I have, the significance of these reductions has benefited consumers. Then we got a further VAT reduction on food through the government's budget negotiations with the Progress Party – 1 pst. reduction. When that margin poll comes, we'll see if that percentage has benefited consumers in a good way. At the primary level there are 50,000 active farmers. They're too small to affect prices. There are 1,500 – perhaps more – food suppliers, and there are four at the top. There is reason to believe that competition is worst between the four food chains. It is necessary to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e94	I find that food prices in Norway have increased by 1.1 pst. in January and February, while we were expecting a price drop. In the context of the budget agreement last year, when we got through a reduction in the food tax of 1 p.m., representatives of the four major chains went out and guaranteed in writing that this would benefit consumers. It hasn't happened. Let me give you an example: Egg prices have increased by 2.5 pst. in January and February, despite the fact that the wholesale price from Prior has fallen. Then there must be one or more chains that have increased their margins. When do we get these margin surveys, so that we can get the "smokers" out of the hiers, or get the bandits out of the drama, so that consumers can punish the sinners?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e101	It was a precursor to dramatic imagery. - Does the Food Minister have an egg solution? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e104	Yeah, it's been a year since it made a lot of laughs in the staging room. Today we have too many eggs, as I understand them. Therefore, there was no basis for repeating that question from the representative Hedstrøm. But it is that the significant amount of eggs we have had during this winter has not led to the price reduction that one should expect. I am pleased that the representative Hedstrom here stresses that the cause is not the primary link or the industrial link, for the price that has fallen. But it is – once again – the four major chains that do not ensure that competition contributes to the fall of egg prices in this area. And I'm glad that the questioner here stresses the importance that there are the four major chains, where competition may not be good enough, which means that we do not get the reductions that farmers and industry are contributing to there. But we do not live in any dictatorship, we depend on active competition to bring prices down, and it is quite clear that we consumers and politicians – and the public – need to focus a much sharper search light on these chains. And then I wonder very much that these chains themselves contribute to this light going down to the primary link, when they should put the light on themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e116	There will be three follow-up questions – first Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e119	It is good that the representative Hedstrøm addresses this with the fact that the chains get too much margins. However, the Progress Party is also an important part of a shelf choir that repeatedly shouts that we have far too high food prices in Norway, and Hedstrom is constantly standing out with the desire to reduce food prices. This also means reducing the income of Norwegian food producers. I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is such that Norway has high food prices in terms of income. And how is the development of food prices in Norway in relation to income in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e127	It is well known that there are few countries — if any — that spend such a small proportion of their purchasing power on food, so it is unlikely that anyone in the world is able to buy food and have more in the wallet than is the case in Norway. But at the same time, it's important that there's no one to leave farms with unnecessary profits or unnecessary margins. The fact that we in this country, with such a high wealth, have set ourselves up to spend a small proportion of our economy on food, should not be an excuse for the large capital owners behind the large food chains to leave farms with unnecessary profits. I'm concerned that we're going to have such cheap food that none of the farms with unnecessary profits, and it's important to focus attention and the searchlight on the four chains and the owners of the shops. I think there is a lot of evidence to suggest that competition is too bad today. I could imagine that the Competition Authority had paid more attention to the competition between the four major chains, and I think the debate of winter that the four big chains themselves would like to draw attention further down the food chain is unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e134	Ulf Erik Knudsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e137	I cannot perceive the Council of State otherwise than that he is passive in relation to the price increases that appear to come up with food. In the past, the Council of State has also been passive in relation to competition, inter alia. in the case of the Tine case, where the giant Tine herded with Synnove Find and one by the Government did nothing. It is necessary to call for a more offensive competition policy in agriculture, and if you want to ask for the Competition Authority, you can remove the exemption provided for by the Competition Act. It must be possible to ask the question whether it is such that the Council of State is only Minister for Agriculture and not for consumers. It doesn't help to say it as the council says, that you follow the case carefully, when you actually don't do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e144	I think it is a strange form of debate technique to say that because you do not agree with the Progress Party or are active in other areas that are important in this value chain in order to get an efficient and good food supply and necessary competition, you are passive. I disagree. And I don't accept that starting point. But it is absolutely essential that we get a clearer distinction between what is the task of agricultural policy, and that is done through the regime changes that this government has made, up to a target price adopted in the context of the agricultural agreement. From there and out, the competition is going to work. This means that we have an organisational and accounting distinction in Tine that is effective and that makes the competitors of that starting line, the agreed target price, have equal competition. That someone would like to have any advantages in this competition that they do not have in this regime, they have the right to express, and they have the right to participate in the debate on that. But I disagree that this is not a level playing field. Agriculture policy is defined in the first paragraph and through agricultural agreement negotiations, and it is widely endorsed in this Chamber – but perhaps not in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e149	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e152	The centre party has, of course, been concerned that it is consumers who are going to benefit from VAT reductions – the large VAT reduction that we received a few years ago, and the small one that we have now received – and we have been concerned that the benefit that comes from reducing the prices of farmers is also going to benefit consumers. But that's not what happened. The centre party has taken this up over and over again, and a closer follow-up has been promised, or the answer has been: this is what the Competition Authority does, they focus on the chains – which then take the big prize. The centre batch has requested a continuous price monitoring, which has obviously not been followed up, but is based on the input method. And just after Christmas, when today's business revealed what happened to the chains, it seemed that the director of the Competition Authority was surprised that this had happened. But no one else has been able to avoid seeing where the winnings have gone. There are billions of winnings. Is it such that there can now be an agreement within the Government that the Competition Authority should look primarily at competition, the lack of competition, between food chains?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e161	If I'm going to take some important numbers right out of memory, it's that food is traded in Norwegian grocery stores for a little over 50 billion kroner – on the agricultural part. Of the slightly over 50 billion, the primary products from the agricultural sector cost 14 billion. The rest is distributed at the industrial and food stages. We also know what the economy is like for primary producers. It's not like there's a lot of margins to cut in, beyond what we can do through structural changes and more rational production. It is therefore important to keep an eye on the gap between the 14 billion, the industry, and the daily food sector, which takes the largest share of the margins. That is the responsibility of the Competition Authority. I assume that the Competition Authority is doing that job. And I think it's going to be wrong to talk about that there's competition law restrictions on agricultural policy, which is the problem, that's the need to have competition at levels beyond the rest of the primary level. And that's the Competition Authority's job.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e166	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e169	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Yesterday, data on kindergarten development were provided in 2004. Now it is clear that the goal of full kindergarten coverage is once again being pushed. Originally, the goal was to have full coverage in 2000. That's what the Bondevik I government put an end to. When we reached the lowest nursery level of 15 years of age, the Sem Declaration said that full childcare was to be provided in 2003. They didn't make it either. So, in the kindergarten agreement in Stortinget, it was said that the goal was to be achieved in 2005. Now it is clear that with today's nursery development rate, the goal will be achieved in three years at the earliest. Does the Minister for Children and Family Appreciate the despair of the 20 000 children and their parents when they are denied an application for kindergarten, when they have to organize their lives in a different way because of problems with work, etc., and do they not receive care for the children? Can the Minister for Children and Family take responsibility for reaching full child-care coverage as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e178	Yes, I take responsibility for reaching full child care coverage as quickly as possible. I have a lot of understanding for those who are still in line. It has been shown that kindergarten expansion has taken longer than many governments – even before this – have thought. One of the things we've been looking at after the nursery arrangement is that thousands have had a desire to have full-time space for the child over part-time space, which they've had. As many as 10,000 more children were given full-time jobs in 2003. 14,000 more children were given full-time jobs in 2004. It's clear that it's doing a lot in terms of capacity. And as for the capacity today, we're building one and a half new kindergartens per. new children we get into the nursery. So we're building one and a half places to get a new child into the nursery. That's one reason why it takes more time. The second reason is that the municipalities say – and that is especially the large municipalities – that they often need one to two years, some actually more, to find plots and to regulate plots. And it's the municipalities that build kindergartens. The nursery arrangement as such is less than two years old, in fact. But the joy in this is that over 60 pst. the municipalities have already received full coverage and the state is fully financing all new kindergartens. So it's not in the economy, it's money in the sector. No matter how many kindergartens you build this year, and for the part, built last year, the money is present in the sector and paid out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e187	There is no doubt that the kindergarten agreement has led to the speeding up of kindergarten development, but it does not go fast enough. 20 000 are still in line. It is also the case that the kindergarten agreement has provided for the price to be reduced, against the government's original will. Now no one pays more than NOK 2750. But we have to make sure that everyone gets space. And one thing that we brought up in the nursery arrangement, but as the government said no, was a legal right for each one to a nursery place if you wanted it. The Workers' Party proposed that it be as natural to have a kindergarten when you wanted it, as if the school place were there when you were six years old. There is no municipality that would have thought of saying: There are many six-year-olds here, but unfortunately our municipality does not have the capacity for school for everyone. This must be the case in the case of kindergartens as well. I wonder why the Government is so opposed to introducing a statutory right to kindergarten for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e195	At first, I want to say that the agreement was also concluded by the government parties, so it is kind of wrong to stand here today and say that the government was at the maximum price. The settlement is carried out. The maximum price step 1 has been implemented. It's actually closer to 100 pst. that pays the maximum price today, if we look at all the kindergartens together. Secondly, the representative knows well that this was discussed in the context of the conciliation. In fact, the majority of the population have said that, if necessary, you should return to a law of rights after you have reached full coverage. No decision has been taken on the principle that we should do that, but priority will first be given to building up enough kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e202	There will be four follow-up questions – first Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e205	At the latest today, we have heard on radio that the municipalities have to cut the school offer for our children, because the government has set such a tight framework in the economy of the municipal sector. The government and the Progress Party have chosen to pay the tax relief by cutting the school offer and cutting the offer for our elderly. Even with state funding, there is every reason to believe that this creates uncertainty for municipalities in relation to the development of kindergartens and also affects the development of kindergartens. Does the State Council agree with the Labour Party that it is now necessary to give priority to better childcare provision, to a better school provision, to a better welfare service for our elderly rather than to tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e214	It is important to give priority to welfare systems in the future. My responsibility is to give priority to the development of kindergartens, which we also do. KS presented a survey just a few weeks ago, where they documented that the state through the kindergarten reform actually covers the cost of building new kindergartens. This reform is therefore fully financed by the State. In the case of municipalities, we demand that municipalities maintain their share in the sector, so that this reform – I just have to repeat – is fully financed. The money's there. It's just building spaces, and every place that's being built, we cover.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e223	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e226	It is very discouraging that the government for the third consecutive year has not achieved the goals set by the Stortinget. The government has repeatedly assured Stortinget that it believes that expansion is the most important. Price is not as important as expansion, not least the Minister for Children and Family has said a number of times from the Stockholm Chair. But it's obviously not important enough when, for the third consecutive year, you don't reach these goals. If it really was that expansion was the most important thing for the Government, why don't you come back to the Storting if there are new things that have to be done, something the Council of State has not done? So it hasn't been a big deal that's been more benevolent to kindergartens than what we now have. It's a big bet from Stortinget's side, and then we feel that the government is unable to get to what the Stortinget wants. The question is: if the government has difficulties in getting what the Storting will, could it not be an idea to come back to Stortinget and say that we have to do this or that to get the expansion going because there are still more than 20,000 children in kindergarten queues in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e235	We would also have done that if that was what was going to happen. But the point is that it's not the state that builds the kindergartens, it's the municipalities and the private that do. The activity and expansion in the municipal sector, whether from the municipalities or from the private sector, is as high as the targets set by the Stortinget last year. There are 7 900 new children who have entered the nursery. But the fact is that to get these into, we've built far more than 7,900 kindergartens, because so many would have part-time. We have achieved a measure of a capacity increase of 13 300 places, because one new child in kindergarten has one and a half new kindergarten seats. So it's built more than ever, and we've built as much as we'd put into the budget, actually more. So it doesn't matter, it's because so many people wanted to have full-time space. It is also important that some municipalities say that they are not able to do so until 2006 – a target that the Stortinget also agreed to through the budgetary procedure last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e242	Karin S. Woldseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e245	As the Council of State is probably also aware, in February and March PBL has conducted a survey among a number of private kindergartens showing that 18 pst. of the children’s gardens asked, they had not been informed of the amount of municipal funding they received for 2004, i.e. 2004. This results in many private kindergartens also not being able to provide their accounts for 2004, as some of the income is not known. And there's still 53 pst. of the children’s daycare centres which do not know their grants for 2005. Now we're in March. What is the intention of the Council of State to do with the unsustainable situation and the unforeseeable framework conditions for private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e255	I'm sorry, but I can't go out here from the pulpit for the figures PBL has calculated. They've done a lot of math in the last few days that's actually quite wrong. I don't know about these numbers, I don't hear them until today. But what I can assure the representative of is that when we come across Easter with a big message about evaluating the maximum price reform step 1, all the figures, exactly, will come to the table. They're probably a little bit different than these numbers, but I'm not done with the message yet. But it comes, and then there will be plenty of opportunity for the representative to discuss the numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e262	Eli Sollied Practices – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e266	The KS report reported by the Council of State on the financial situation — quoted at the press conference yesterday — states that the results provide ‘no basis for claiming that the reform has generally been underfunded’. But the fact is that there are a number of municipalities today that have to cut off many welfare services because of poor municipal economy. My question to the Council of State is: Is there any clarity in the report that the municipalities are some of the full funding of this reform? A little about private kindergartens: There were many of the private kindergartens that were dissatisfied with the funding scheme when we entered the nursery agreement. They claimed that there would be bankruptcy, and that it would be the closure of private kindergartens. The second question is, are there many private kindergartens that have gone bankrupt and have disappeared?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e279	We're working on these numbers in terms of how many private kindergartens and others that may have gone bankrupt. Very familiar it's about the same level as before, but these exact numbers we have to get back to when we come up with the final overviews. In the case of full funding, it is also clear in the study from the KS that of course we calculate an average. I can take an example of how a private nursery might get into trouble: when a large municipality in this country owns a nursery garden, the municipality can of course sell it for the price it wants. Then you sell this plot, on which a kindergarten is to be built, for $9 million. kr to a private developer. It is clear that the private ones can then have quite major problems in getting the wheels to walk around, if they choose to build. It's an example that municipalities might put some kindergartens in trouble. But basically, some municipalities say they have more than enough money from the state. Others may have a small proportion, but it's so small that it's completely marginal. It's fully funded from the state, and I'm very happy and proud to be able to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e288	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e291	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs a question. 20 municipalities in Norway have tried not to earmark grants for kindergartens, but to allow them to become part of the framework funding. This has been researched by Telemark on behalf of the Ministry of Local Affairs. Not surprisingly, mainly due to poor municipal economy, it turns out that these 20 municipalities have 50 pst. minor increases in nursery facilities than those which have been earmarked for this purpose. It is very clear from the researchers that it is not a ludicrous strategy to provide framework funding until the goal of full child care coverage has been achieved. Let me then ask: The government, together with the Workers' Party, has made a settlement that it will be financed within the framework of the next year. This will mean that the kindergarten goals will not be achieved, simply because the municipalities have such poor advice that priority cannot be given to the development of kindergartens. Will the Council of State reconsider this and ensure that this grant is earmarked until the objective of full child-care coverage is achieved, as originally established by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e300	It is true that the Storting decided on a transfer and inclusion from 1 January 2006. The question of inclusion comes back to the government in the municipal proposition. I cannot say anything but that I am concerned that we should have the means to achieve the goal of full expansion in the kindergarten sector, and that I am working to ensure that this is done in a good way. The most important thing we can do in the kindergarten sector now is to ensure that we get full coverage during 2006, as all municipalities – including the large ones – have now provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e307	What's real is that if you choose to finance this framework, the same development will happen in all municipalities, simply because the municipalities have such poor advice that you won't be able to prioritise kindergartens in the same way. In addition, the Stortinget has decided to have a maximum price of step 2 from 1 August 2005. This means that the price will decrease further, and demand will rise further. That means that there will be even more children in line. If you choose the approach that the Government has, with miserable municipal economy on the one hand, and framework funding on the top, you can shoot a white stick after full kindergarten coverage. That is why I challenge again: does the Council not see the danger of this? The report from Telemarksforschung is clear in the conclusion: unfortunately, it is not possible to combine full development with framework funding, due to poor municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e316	So one way to think about it is, the answer is the same. It is clear that we are carefully studying this report that has come about inclusion and prioritisation for the municipalities, but we will come back to this question in connection with the municipal proposition. We need to find a system that enables us to build enough kindergartens for everyone in 2006. That's my goal. It's going to be a good way to do this, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e323	There will be two follow-up questions – first May Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e326	It surprises me that every time we get new numbers on the table about kindergarten development, the Council of State is surprised that so many new kindergartens are eaten up by children who want a full day's space. Why hasn't the Council of State put in an estimate of an increase in demand for kindergartens when the price goes down? When the price goes down further by introducing the maximum price step 2, to NOK 1750, the need will be significantly increased. Why hasn't the Council of State seen that there's a price-demand relationship? We have told the Council of State many times, and we also know that from experience in Sweden when a maximum price was introduced there. Parents in Norway will now have more reasonable kindergartens. They opt out of cash support, and soon the Council of State will have to take action. What will the Council of State do to put in place the real need for kindergartens in Norway? What is the real need in terms of the rate of expansion?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e335	There were a lot of questions. I may not be able to answer everyone, but I get to start with the first one. When the kindergarten agreement was concluded just under two years ago, we were in a situation where a lot of people wanted more flexibility in kindergartens. In fact, part-time demand was higher than full-time demand. Then we got the nursery agreement, and we've seen that this has turned completely. Nor did the Storting and Storting's representatives at the time take note that this could happen as quickly as it actually did. That's some reason. Of course, we have taken this into account, especially in the 2005 budget. Only when we got the final budget figures for 2004, a little out in the New Year last year, did we see this huge structural change that was actually about to happen. We have to take that into account, but it's positive that we can build so fast that even those who have part-time spaces get full-time space. The pace is in line with what we've laid down in budgets, but it's just that we're building one and a half places for every new child who comes into kindergarten. But we have to do this by the end of 2006. That's my goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e344	There are a number of issues that have still not been resolved in the area of kindergarten. As it appears to take longer than originally planned to build enough space to meet the needs, it is likely that it will be necessary to prepare itself for enlargement in 2006. I get a little tired when I hear the Workers' Party criticise every time the Council of State presents new numbers. 12,000 nursery places are what's in the deal, and that the council has managed to get more than that, I really think it's good – 12,000 places, it didn't say the number of children. However, we still need to expand in 2006. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: does she intend to continue the incentives in 2006, too, in order to ensure further development?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e354	It is, of course, difficult for a Council of State to answer for a budget which comes first in 2006 and which will be adopted as a new increase. But I can be so open to say that I think it's important that we still have plenty of incentives, as long as we expand the kindergarten sector at the rate we do. And then I can give an example from this year. Safe Barnhager, the largest private kindergarten developer in our country, is planning to build 30 new kindergartens in 2005. They've never had so many kindergartens on the stairs before. We know that the House Bank has never previously had as many enquiries as it is right now. Let's hope that it will be built even more places in 2005, so that we get less to go in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e361	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e364	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. We have been doing away with a year of structural arrangements in the coastal fishing fleet, with a significant turnover of quotas, owner-concentrations and not least a significant increase in the cost of the quotas being traded. The Minister for Fisheries has recently, without consulting the Stortinget, made a regulatory change to introduce a structural quota scheme in the marine fleet, where the fleet group can obtain everlasting quotas. The Minister of Fisheries suggested in an earlier Question Time that he would consider taking this matter to Stortinget. I would like to hear the Minister for Fisheries' reasons that he has not wanted this matter dealt with in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e373	Firstly, it's wrong to claim that we have allocated eternal allowances to some groups. We've equated a smaller part of the quota base that was related to the unit quota scheme for the sea fishing fleet, and equated it with all the other allowances, whether we're talking about the fishing fleet or the marine fleet. The structural quota system for the sea fishing fleet that we have put in place is enshrined in the Saltwater Fishing Act, and we have therefore considered that the legal basis is in the law. So it's not like we've introduced a new principle. We have had bundling arrangements in the field of purse seine fishing and within the shrimp trawl group for a number of years, and for the small trawls in the cod trawl group from 2000. The majority dealt with these questions in their entirety when dealing with St.meld. No 20 for 2002-2003 on structural measures in the coastal fishing fleet, where the majority also accepted this principle. So it's that if there's disagreement in the Storting, it's not that crucial to whether it's going to the Storing. I record that there is a majority in the UK who want to introduce it, and we have an unusually broad support in the industry to implement these measures. Thus, we have chosen to implement the scheme in the manner that has now been notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e382	I cannot believe that the Minister for Fisheries has intended to make it a principle that a statement from parties in the Stortinget, which ensures the majority of the Government, will be decisive if a matter is to be dealt with in the Stortinget or not. These are not insignificant changes in the policy of this fleet group, and not just the 7 pst. as the Minister for Fisheries has repeatedly said, has participated in this structural system so far. Indeed, a general structural system is also open within the sea fishing fleet, which means that we will have an EU concentration and that we will have a more capital intensive industry over time, just as we now see in the coastal fleet. I am surprised that the Minister for Fisheries, with a policy change that over time will have such extensive consequences, does not see the need to have a broader political discussion on this matter. Today we have three trawler companies that control approx. 45 pst. of the cod and hyskvantum within the sea fishing fleet. I could imagine asking the Minister for Fisheries: how strong will he be going to allow in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e389	There are limitations on the number of units of the radiation ratio you can have per. company or related to each installation. It hasn't changed. What we've done now is we've removed the time limit for a smaller part of the quota base. So it's barely touching 8 pst. of the cod quota and select 9 pst. of the herring quota. This is a small part of the allowance, which is now equal to all other allowances in terms of ownership. What we have removed is the time limit in the structural quota system. It was not that the quota that was then released was to be allocated to anyone. It was to return to the same group and be distributed among the same vessels. In this way, there is no greater concentration than that to which it was posted by previous magnifications and past governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e396	There will be four follow-up questions – first Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e399	I would say that the Council of State has carried out a major conversion of the Norwegian fisheries policy, as the Council of State has in the past meant. In a speech at the representative meeting of the Federation of Fishermen in January 2004, the Council of State said: «The transformation of the single quota system for all sea fishing groups into a structural system without a time limit requires, in my opinion, the agreement of a majority on the Stortinget. This is such a major change of policy that it should be dealt with there.' Then my question is: what has changed since this time, and has made the Council so hasty and has had to do what he has now said to the previous questioner that he has done? And is it the case that the Council of State still believes that this is a major change in the fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e409	What we have done in this context is to remove the time limit in the structural quota system for the marine fleet, a smaller part of the quota. The basis for home meal is in the Seawater Fishing Act. On several occasions, the size has dealt with both the principle and the practical arrangements, including: when addressing the catchment notification of the structural measures in the coastal fleet. Then I record that a broad majority of the parties have given their full support, just as the industry has done. I have recorded that, not least at a meeting in the Federation of Fishermen, to those degrees it made it clear that this was wanted to be introduced. There were, among other things: The representative who now asks, is present and was clearly informed that this is highly desirable, this is desirable in order to create profitability and secure coastal workplaces. That is why I must say that I am disappointed that so much energy is being used to combat good measures that provide jobs and create increased value creation along the coast, because that is what the Arnesen representative gives in its activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e416	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e419	The structure of the coastal fleet was pushed through in the Stortinget with the support of the Progress Party; there was no broad agreement. This has meant that the entry ticket for this industry has become unreasonably high for young people and that industry is becoming the industry of investors rather than the industry of the coastal population. The Council of State said yesterday that he would have increased profitability through expensive quotas and fewer fishermen. Then my question is, how many fewer fishermen does this government want in the industry? Where is it going to end again?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e430	With regard to the attitude expressed by saying that this was pushed through in the Stortinget with the support of the Progress Party, I have to say that I consider the Progress Party as an equivalent party – it is many times larger than the Center Party – as an equivalent representative in the Stortinget. The majority that is in the Biggest, regardless of which party, I respect. Secondly, the price of allowances is determined by the purchaser and the seller. It shall not be determined by the authorities. There is nothing to prevent a fisherman from giving away vessels with allowances. It's clear that the quotas have a price, but it's only in that way that you can finance ships. If the quota did not accompany the vessel, after approval by the fisheries authorities – approval by the fisheries authorities must be granted – the vessel would not be financed. There's a connection. The price is not fixed by the authorities. As far as fewer fishermen are concerned, it is clear that we have overcapacity in the fleet, and in some cases fewer fishermen will also be required. An example from Husøya shows that merging ships does not mean reducing the number of fishermen, but that means all-year work.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e439	Åsa Elvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e442	Governments have spent four years facilitating privatisation and increasing the purchase and sale of quotas. We are today in a situation where Norwegian fishing rights have been estimated to have a value of NOK 60 billion. One shall look for a long time at the Norwegian stock exchange to find companies that measure such a great value. So we have three large companies that control 45 pst. of these rights in the jet fleet. Who is it that shines across Norwegian fisheries today? Well, it's Kjell Inge Smoke and Norway Seafoods, and it's not random. The Council of State is currently at the hook point in the throat of a fish who has expressed dissatisfaction with the Council of State's policy. But I wonder what the council has to answer to the 19-year-old girl who stood out in the newspaper, the magazine, last Saturday and said that she can't afford to get into the fishing industry. Is the answer to the Council of State that she will become a crew of one of Kjell Inge's jetters, or is the Council of State's response that it is a pity that she does not have access to financial capital to finance the purchase of the quota at NOK 2 1/2 million, which is perhaps the current entrance ticket to the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e451	Then the Council of State can choose which of the answers he wants to bet on.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e454	I think it is great that there is a value in the Norwegian fishing industry in the order of magnitude that is being announced here. It's great that there's value creation in the industry, that there are high values – that's what we want, because that's what can create jobs along the coast. So it's that it's referred to an individual who's a significant owner in the shipping industry, sir. Smoking, a prominent worker party member, according to his own statement. At least he is satisfied with the policy being pursued. I can also refer to two young fishermen in Finnmark who stood up in the Fiskeribladt and said that they are horrified if this government is replaced and certain other parties – which I should not mention by name here – come to power, because it will remove the foundation for the future of young fishermen in the Norwegian fishing industry. I can show the big interview to the representative Elvik if she has not received it. But I think it's funny that it's not referred to. So it is that a 19-year-old has stood up and said that she cannot afford to buy a boat. Yes, I understand that, but at the same time you can ask, how many 19-year-olds have capital to go in and buy an industrial enterprise, a store or what it might be? But it's also possible. I can refer to a young fisherman, well 20 years old, in Havøysund, who, with good help from various actors, has bought a boat and a quota. That's possible, so now let's not draw a completely black picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e463	I would like to commend the Council of State for taking that step, the slight change, and introducing the structural arrangements in the sea fishing fleet in line with what we have done in the coastal fleet. I have to say that it is strange to see the big crocodile tears of the parties that are now going to change the overall fisheries policy, change the quota base of the various fleets: take from the sea, give to the coast, take from the sea and the coast and give to Finnmark. But let's do that. Governments have listened to the industry, but in one case he has not listened to the industry when it comes to the structural measures, namely the conditioning of vessels to leave. According to the industry, this is depreciating, not efficient, and one may not achieve the structural change that one might want. And then my question is, what's the foundation for the government council to do this with conditioning? Is he going to follow this up, or is he going to reconsider his point of view on just that with conditioning?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e470	I agree with the representative, Solholm, that the allocation of allowances is fairly stable between the individual groups, and that the statements that are now coming about that we are rocking by central distribution grip are wrong. For example, the coastal fleet has 70 pst. of the cod resources, and then it gets a little wrong. Yes, it'll be just as wrong to make it as if it were the trawls that are the winners. It's just as wrong when Dagbladet says that one of the big missteps in Norwegian fisheries policy that I've implemented is to let the factory trawlers have refrigeration systems on board. Yes, it is becoming a few decades since they got it, but it is possible that it is my fault, too. But if that's the reason for criticising the policy, then it's going to be wrong. So to this with the condemoration of the vessel. I have been holding on to it, because overcapacity both nationally and internationally is a significant problem in the Norwegian fishing industry. I have for that reason maintained that a ship must be taken out, but we have opened that it is not necessarily a particular vessel to be taken out. But getting the capacity reduced is essential. We must avoid the entry of vessels into the Norwegian fishing industry or into other fisheries which already have overcapacity on the fishing side.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e477	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e480	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries: The Fjord Champion was the near disaster no one thought could happen on 4 March. This was also reflected in the considerable attention given to the accident in the international press. For Norway, the accident raises questions as to whether the incident around it was due only to unfortunate circumstances, or whether it was an expression of a reality that creates unpleasant feelings of maritime safety along our coast. The condition of the boat as a cause of the accident is one thing, it concerns primarily the owners of the ship. It should be mentioned that the ship had no double hull. Another thing is our own preparedness in such a disaster situation. How is it possible to take 15 hours before the Hagarist gets towboat assistance? We're talking about a breakdown that takes place a short distance from a large port like Kristiansand. When the aid arrived, the Fjord Champion had already hit the frocks for six hours. In other words, we were just a few millimeters from the total disaster. In an article in the newspaper Tromsø on 12 March, the Council of State writes that the towing boat stand in South Norway ‘is based on available private tug capacity’. Is it the opinion of the Council of State that a response of 15 hours expresses a satisfactory tug capacity in South Norway? If not, does the Council itself have an opinion on what is reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e487	When the alarm is about the ship’s problems, both the Main Rescue Centre and the Coast Guard Emergency Organisation are ready to handle it. The first priority is to save life and health, and then to do what is possible to avoid damage to the environment, it is because of oil spills or other cargo, as well as bunker oil. It is then that the Coast Guard will now evaluate the incident of the Fjord Champion, a 174-metre-long ship engaged in ballast, which was given engine trouble, which was set on fire – and several of these things contributed to making the rescue operation more difficult. We can then see that the action was successful in the sense that the accident did not lead to loss of life and health, nor did it damage the environment. We are not equally satisfied with other aspects of the action, and therefore we have also started an evaluation of it. It is clear that it would have been desirable for a tugboat to have reached the Hagarist earlier, so that the grounding had been averted. That is why we are going through the action, so we are also going through and evaluating the entire case complex, including the towing boat stand. But the fact that we are also based on a combination of private and public resources in the towing boat equipment is nothing new. It's been fundamental in readiness at all times. But, as I said, it took a long time – although it didn't go 15 hours, it went twelve and a half hours – from the Hagarist's requested tugboat, until the assistance came. Because you have to be aware that at one time, approx. 2 hours after the incident, the captain reported that the danger was over – the fire was under control. So the fire flared up again. But all of these sides are now to be evaluated, and the Storting will be appropriately assigned to that evaluation. Because, as we all know, there is a big message for dealing with these issues, so that the Storting will be briefed and see and review the evaluation we are carrying out.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e496	The unpleasant fact that it takes so long before you get towboat capacity is something that the Council of State should at least ask if this is a reasonable time, and one should be able to signal that this is far beyond reasonable limits. In Kristiansand, there's a big harbor nearby. There was no towing boat capacity available. Farsund was an alternative, but they were out on another commercial assignment. Stavanger and Porsgrund were then the closest ones who could bring assistance to the wrecked boat. Then again the question is: is this a satisfactory agreement with private actors to assist Hagarists in such situations as this, in order to avoid the disaster that we were very close to?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e504	The Coast Guard Service has held a meeting with the Coast Guard and the tugboat industry on 21 March to review some of these questions. When this occurred, there was a smaller coastguard vessel in the vicinity of the Hagarist. Subsequently, two lifeguards and a ro-ro ship, «Tor Hollandia», arrived and subsequently, after basic support, the coastguard ship «Eigun» arrived and then a tugboat. Then there was a dramatic fire on board. It made it difficult to get a tower, it made the rescue work considerably difficult, but it does not explain that we are not satisfied that it took so long. Then it shall be said that in the region there is considerable tug capacity, but the circumstances caused a vessel in Kristiansand not to be manned, another was in Hirtshals, a third was in the process of towing a barge, and it took four and a half hours longer before the tug boat came than what was reported when it was alerted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e511	There will be three follow-up questions – first Rolf Terje Klungland.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e514	People living along the coast react strongly to situations that we have now experienced with «Fjord Champion». Environment and human life were unnecessarily endangered. In the evening post on March 9, we could read that the responsible State Council felt that the preparedness was good enough, and the Coast Guard has stated that there is so much traffic in the area that safety is self - regulating. Does the Minister for Fisheries mean that one should endanger the lives of ordinary seafarers, given that the authorities do not prioritize coastal preparedness with trained rescue teams?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e523	I would like to reject the fact that we do not give priority to coastal preparedness. And as I said in my first answer, the first priority is to avert damage to life and health, then to the environment. Then you must not lose sight of the fact that this action, which unfortunately ended with the ship going on, ended without damage to life and health, and it ended without damage to the environment. I think we should be satisfied with that. We shall also praise the rescue crews, both those who came into the civil vessel, and those who came into it by tugboat and coastguard. But, as I say, we're not as happy that it took so long. At the same time, it must be taken into account that there was spherical activity, and that an explosive fire — a major explosion hazard — made the conditions under which they were worked difficult. Getting close to the Hagarist and getting set on board turned out to be difficult because of the circumstances. These are aspects of this action that we are now reviewing, including whether the tug capacity can be overestimated in terms of conditions here. But I remind you again that there was a significant number of towing vessels in the area. Unfortunately, no one was available.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e530	Heidi Sørensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e533	There's one thing the council can be very pleased with when it came to «Fiord Champion» and it's been. It was incredibly lucky that it was so quiet and so good weather, so that the matter went as well as it did after all. We are now dealing with a big message – on the safe side – maritime safety and oil protection – which was presented shortly before this accident. On page 63 it is stated that there will be two tugs in Kristiansand. They unfortunately did not crew, and the boat went on land because there was no available tug capacity there. On the Sunday following, the Coast Guard told the NRK Evening News that they have made a diet-benefit analysis that says that it is not worth having a tow boat in the area. Then they had assumed the Prestige accident, in which it might cost NOK 40 billion to clean up, and said that it was more useful – because this would happen so rarely – that we cleaned up once, than it was to have state tug capacity in the area. Does the Council share that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e542	This reference to the statement of the Coastal Works I believe is undocumented, as far as I have gained experience. There is no one in the Coastal Works who approves of this statement. I have to get some evidence that the Coastal Plant has really expressed it, because that's not right. I see that this statement should have been connected to Prestige. I've been through this with the Coastal Works. They do not have knowledge of the costs of Prestige, so it is unlikely that such an opinion would have been received. I cannot comment on an undocumented statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e547	Kenneth Svendsen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e550	The fact that this rescue operation went as it went – thank you and the price for it – I do not believe that the Norwegian authorities are responsible for it. It has been in the area we can thank for it. I have to say that when you read the message that has been submitted, when you see that as an insurance there are two tugs in Kristiansand and it turns out that you have to pick one from Stavanger, and when the council also says that you had good tug capacity in the area, it must mean that the organisation doesn't work at all. The tug capacity in this area is almost not affected either in the message submitted, it is mostly just the northern regions. Then my question is: will the Council take the initiative in making binding agreements with towing boat capacity in this area and in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e559	The President would suggest that if there are no Norwegian authorities to thank, there must be higher authorities. We'll see if the Council of State agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e562	I guess I shouldn't disagree with that. It's not unnatural with this government. Cooperation is good. [[Laughter]] In the northern regions, there is poor private tug capacity, so the State has leased three vessels in cooperation with the Coast Guard. In other parts of the country, as I have said, and on which all governments have built, there is cooperation with private resources in the region. Also in this part of the country, one can show that one has capacity, but during this action it turned out that the vessels were not available, partly because one could not mann them, partly because they were engaged in other tasks, and partly because they spent four and a half hours more than what was reported. So here were several circumstances. It was a vessel that could have kept the Hagarist, but the fire prevented an effective towing. That is why the Coast Guard has now scheduled a meeting with the tugboat industry, to see if other ways of organising and drawing on the private emergency response are to be found. Here's a deal one element.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e572	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e578	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will direct him. Question 19, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs who directs him. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 20, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e604	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e611	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘In the light of the conversion of support schemes to organisations with disabilities, some mentally retarded persons may lose their participation in musical corps, so-called special corps in the Association of the Norwegian Music Corps, which has received support from the County Board. In reply to John I. Alvheim on 8 January, the Council of State stated that it would consider measures against accidental effects in the context of the budgetary procedure. The Corps can't wait for this. Can the Council of States ensure that these receive continued support already?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e620	The special corps in question have been supported by that part of the budget chapter 621 item 74 which was previously distributed by county councils to local welfare and holiday measures for people with disabilities. The size decided unanimously that from this year onwards these funds should be allocated to the general operating grant to organisations of disabled persons and allocated by the individual organisation according to its own priorities. The organisations of the disabled agreed to this conversion. Such conversion necessarily results in the withdrawal of some measures that have been supported in the past. When the funds are centrally distributed by disabled people’s organisations themselves, priorities will be different from when they are allocated by state officials in the counties. I assume that the Storting was in agreement with such an opportunity when the conversion took place. This does not mean that the measures that lose support are not eligible. Music corps are an activity that many people in this country enjoy, and the special forces are important for many mentally retarded people. The Norwegian Music Corps Association reports that there are about 1 700 troops here in the country. They have State aid both through the Ministry of Culture and through adult education. The special crews that we are talking about here are also within these aid schemes. In addition, the Ministry of Culture’s budget provides annual support for music activities of up to 1 million people with disabilities. NOK in the form of a grant to the Dissimilis Foundation. This scheme has its background in the fact that the operation of developmentally impaired corps is more costly than the operation of other corps, due to special pedagogical challenges, the need for material in particular, etc. In order to avoid the acute difficulties of the Special Corps not associated with Dissimilis, I have asked the Social and Health Directorate to ensure that they are administered as soon as possible to the necessary resources within the framework of the Directorate. I also see the need to consider a longer-term solution to this problem related to the 2006 budgetary procedure. I'll follow that up in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e635	I would like to thank you for a very positive response, an answer that will now actually lead to these corps continuing as a very useful and good offer to a group that needs this and that has major problems in the first place. I just have to say that I hope that the directorate will put this money in place as soon as possible as the council now mentions. I have no further questions, just the comment that if the Council of State comes back to the Storting in connection with the budget, at least I will do my part to get him a majority in order for these corps to continue operating.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e644	The additional comment does not cause anything else from my side but that I have noticed what the representative has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e653	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: ‘Perspective opinions of the Council of State may adversely affect the reputation of Synnøve Find. Examples of statements in the media are "this flaked cheese brand," "from personal experience it seems that the Find is more concerned with authorities and media than producing cheese", "this is a whole industry of uncultures", and in the Storting: "makes a lot of political noise." Will not the claims affect Synnove Find credibility and destroy brand construction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e662	I could have answered no to that question and given me there. However, I choose to make some comments. Firstly, I would like to say that I find it pointless to take completely detached quotes from what has been said in various debates. It is that at the beginning of this year we have had a wide-ranging debate on how different stages of the food chain work. A general agricultural policy debate has moved quickly, many of which have faltered positions that are quite close to those of Mr. Heathstream itself has prefected in this room. I think it is an important principle to establish that one of the most important instruments in political debate and democracy is arguments that are counter-arguments. These are unscrupulous quotations from debates, for example. In the NRK's position, where representatives from Synnøve Finden were present and where Mr. Hedstrom's party president was present, where one had the best opportunity to come up with counter-arguments if one thought that it was necessary in the given context. It didn't come. I can also express what I have actually said in that context, namely, a wonder that when you have a good brand like Synnove Find – I actually think in the same point-of-view debate I said that they make an excellent cheese and have a good brand – you choose to attach that brand so strongly to a political commitment that is very similar to that of the Progress Party, it can hardly serve the commercial interests behind this mark. Nor was it contradicted either by the President of the Progress Party or by representatives of Synnove Finden in the same debate. It might have been natural. Besides that, I also want to say that when I have operated on the concept that there is an unculture in the industry, it is because I think it is a correct expression. In this context, the ‘fire’ is an overall food industry that sells more than one hundred billion in Norway and where there are several thousand actors at different stages. Disclosures in today's Business and other media include: shown that there is a lack of transparency and transparency in how prices are formed, which means that I have chosen to use a strong expression as unculture. Most people in the industry have, in a way, accepted it. But there is one actor like Mr. Heat current often chooses to represent, which has felt very offended about this. I don't know why that actor, among many thousands of actors, should have a bad conscience or have reason to feel offended about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e675	It is quite clear that in a heated debate, some and everyone might say things that are not so well placed. But I feel that this has happened in so many ways that it forms a pattern, and that's why I have reacted to it. When the council says Synnove Find makes a lot of political noise, I have to ask what really happened. At first Synnose The find was skewed out of Rema without getting any explanation. They were competitive in all three other chains. Then came Tine and what was happening in ICA. Had Synnove Find been swept out of ICA as well, the company would have been bankrupt. Is it strange, then, that they are trying to be heard in the political environments? It is part of the democratic system to hear its views, so that one can survive in the competition that is on the Norwegian dairy market. Isn't this completely acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e682	I am a very strong defender of debate, of the right to make arguments, the right to freedom of expression and the right to political commitment. I have also not expressed anything else. But when I'm invited to debates, I also reserve the right to express my views and to express my reasoning. When those who the representative here believes have been offended in some way, are also present in the debate and have the opportunity to come up with counter-arguments, but not do so, I have great problems taking this seriously. Then the representative comes up with claims that someone should be skewed out of certain shops etc. What I am familiar with is that the matter is being dealt with by the Competition Authority, and we will probably at some point hear – I get hope and faith – what has happened, and whether there have been things that are not acceptable. I accept everyone's right to work for their framework conditions, but sometimes it may seem that you use so much energy and energy to make claims and spend money on hiring in information consultants and what it might be, that it is at the expense of being competitive about what to do primarily. On this issue, and also in many other contexts, I have recorded that there are exactly the same papers on close cooperation between one of the actors, Synnøve Finden, and the representative Hedstrøm, among others. claims of the Ministry of Agriculture, which I would strongly dispute, can be correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e693	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I feel like he's making a big mistake here. As Minister of Agriculture, conditions should be created to enable all operators in the dairy market to compete and operate in the Norwegian society. One should not go in and criticise some actors in such a way that it seems that one might suspect that there might be a pattern in it. The Synnove Find management has reacted very strongly and has felt opposed since the establishment in 1997 – by the authorities, of course, not just by Sponheim. Does not the Council of States consider that he should give priority to cooperation and dialogue and make this system work, rather than make strong claims and characteristics that could be devastating to some operators in the dairy market?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e702	I have set up a cooperation and a change in the framework conditions in the dairy sector that gives everyone equal competition. That is why we now have a new market organisation in place from 1 January this year, which will be fully completed from 2006. So it's going to be equal to that. Then there are different interests among the different actors. We have to accept that. Some will have even more of the conditions to their advantage, which is the opposite of the other one will have. It's e.g. particularly relevant between two private actors. It's Synnove Find, which makes cheese, on one side and the Q daisies, that produce milk, on the other side. The government-regulated cross-subsidisation system, price equalisation, is such that money is transferred, in this case from the Q-meierines to the Synnove Find, which makes cheese. Obviously, you have different interests. Then it's important to have a neutral authority up there that says that in terms of competition, there's an equal line here for everyone. So let's say that. Then, of course, the cheese maker wants cheaper milk, and the milk producer wants the highest price for milk. We're fair authorities for everyone. But when a political debate arises, I reserve the right to have open-minded opinions and debate as a politician.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e715	This question, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, who is believed to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e718	I was actually going to ask a question about rakefish production in Valdres to the Minister for Food, but since I've been admitted to the Minister for the Environment, I just got to say thank you for yesterday to the Minister. I have the following questions: ‘Rake fish from Valdres has become a successful product and could have been much larger if producers had obtained new or larger production quotas. Governments constantly claim that Building Norway needs to rethink and produce new products of quality. What will the Council of State do to enable the shrimp fish producers in Valdres to benefit more fully from the quality product they have produced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e729	The president has to admit that he has also wondered a little about the relocation, and he has some doubts about whether it is the rakefish or consumers who are to be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e732	There is in the first row the release of nutrients that today limits the framework for fish farming in Valdres, and that is the background for me to answer the question today. I have once boasted of the Rake Fish Environment in Valdres, which is about to establish a brand and an identity of the height of French food regions. The rocket fish create a lot of enthusiasm in the countryside, like this. The representative, Mr Nistad, will present this question. The representative Nistad has shown a considerable commitment here that I appreciate. At the same time, production has ring-fences both for the tourism industry, for the trading community and among the other food producers who are responsible for what belongs to a good rake fish meal. However, for rakefish industries and other industries exploiting the natural production base, it is becoming increasingly important that production takes place in an environmentally sound manner. This will ensure that the production base is preserved for the future and will contribute to the quality of the products, where environmentally adapted production will be an important competitive advantage in increasingly environmentally conscious markets. I would like to remind you here that the rearing of fish in Valdres is a monthly source of nutrient emissions to the Bedena River in the period June–September. This is also the most critical period of the year, because the water flow is low and the temperature is high. In July and August, rearing is the main source of such emissions. The stronda soil, which is the largest and most exposed lake in relation to fish farming, is vulnerable to the supply of nutrient salt, especially in summer. Several times it has been the flowering of algae in Strawfjorden, last in 2003. For several years, there has been a great deal of effort to reduce nutrient emissions from municipal sewerage, agriculture, industry and scattered buildings in this region. Large amounts have been invested in technical installations. A possible increase in the production of fish must therefore be done in such a way that the total emissions from fish farming do not increase. The State of Oppland is still interested in dialogue with the fish farming industry in Valdres in order to arrive at good solutions for nutrition and the environment. In its role as a pollution authority, the county will of course process new applications for discharges from fish farming. It will then be important that the total intake of nutrients in the watercourse is kept constant or preferably decreasing. However, I would like to stress that the main responsibility for finding technically and economically defenceable solutions lies with the industry itself, and I hope they will be closed with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e749	I thank you for your answer. It was not really the discharge I had intended to ask questions about, but when I have got another minister than the one I asked the question to, I guess I have to thank the one who is here. This whole rule I've got before, and it's obvious that for the minister, the water runs in a different direction in Valdres than what it does elsewhere. Most of these production holdings are located below Strondafjorden and not above, so you can take a trip to Valdres and see! I am a representative of Inland Norway, where we have many industrious entrepreneurs and small business owners who are struggling and struggling. In view of what they meet in everyday life, it's a wonder that they're at all trying to drive. Yesterday we had a debate about belt wagons, and today the newspaper announces that there is red light for belt wagons. So now, under a new group of skilled entrepreneurs and company owners in Valdres, the state council is turning their legs away. Is there no limit to how many enterprises the Council of State is going to lay down around Norway? Can't he say yes to these companies either? I think about the tourist companies at Hövringen, and I think about the rake fish producers in Valdres. Can't he stretch out a hand and say yes, you are competent, and let's get speed on Inland Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e758	The supplementary question probably went a bit beyond the original question in scope...
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e761	Yes, but I got another minister and a completely different answer from what I had been thinking!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e766	The councils are free to answer whether he is going against the current!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e769	Now I would like to remind you that in the matter we discussed yesterday, there was a clear signal from the Ministry of the Environment that we want to find a solution, we just want to stick to the administrative law and not break it. I said yesterday that I was prepared to find a solution that I believe will be good for Hövringen Hövjellshotell. In this case, in which I know the representative Nistad has had a considerable commitment, the County of Oppland is also interested in a dialogue with those who are doing a significant job, who are doing a very good job, and who have been given a product. I'm busy with that product development, but I'm also busy with the environment and that we're going to do it within the framework of a good environmental policy. When this matter was up in November, I said that we are open to a dialogue between the State of Uppland and those who are responsible for this production. Of course, it's at work. I hope that that dialogue leads to a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e778	I thank the Council of State for two good answers. I must say I was very positively surprised. I hope that there will be a solution for the Hövringen before Easter, that they will be exempted from driving at Easter, on which they are very dependent. So we went to Valdres and rakefish production – that's exactly what we were going to talk about. Now most people have to import fish from Denmark. Some are also able to get hold of the mountain trout. But there's a lack of fish to make this product. All they make, they're sold out. Here one could create a good deal of new plants, new businesses and new jobs in Valdres. When may the Council of State be able to speed up those who are sitting and blocking this at the level of the environmental authorities in Uppland County?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e788	As I said yesterday, it will not be possible to get a solution for the Hövringen Hövfelshotel this Easter without breaking the administrative law. I am not interested in that, but I am interested in starting a work that will provide a solution. I can't give a derogation right now, I'm breaking my promise. But I'm going to start a work to find a solution. It will take some time, because we have to stick to both the administrative system and the administrative laws – I will not break this. So in the case of rake fish. There's now, I think, the basis for a dialogue. I have said that what matters to me are the total emissions, so that we don't get a new algal bloom. There have been the consequences of the increased emissions, and I believe that the dialogue between the State of Uppland and these competent people will provide a holistic and good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e799	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘Oslo Crisis Centre was forced on 1 December 2004 to close the doors of the only book collective for minority women who have broken with the family. Try to save this beach because the Ministry of Children and Family has not been able to decide on the request for 3.6 million. kr fast enough. This is a pilot project with good, documented results. What is the reason why the ministry was unable to find a temporary solution in the meantime, so as to avoid having to rebuild everything from scratch?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e808	The Ministry of Children and Family has not said no to the further operation of the Book Collective in Oslo. The book collection was closed by the Oslo Crisis Centre on 1 December 2004, and the Oslo Crisis Centre did not apply for funds from the Ministry for further operations until they shut it down. The new crisis centre funding mechanism would make it easier to operate the offer in 2005 by increasing its coverage from 50 pst. to 80 pst. of the operating costs. The remaining part is covered by the municipality. The idea of the Book Collective was that it should be a place of refuge for young women with a minority ethnic background who had to break up with family and/or husbands because of coercion, threats and violence, including forced marriage. I see clearly that these women have a need for protection, and in order for them to have the best possible offer, I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to make an overall assessment of both the need, the form of offer, where the offer can best be made, and the bodies that can help fund such an offer. I believe that such an assessment is absolutely necessary, not least for women's own sake. The request from the Church's Bymission and Oslo Red Cross for a new and expanded offer, which was received on 10 December last year by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, will therefore be examined and taken up during the spring. Since grants for crisis measures involve basic municipal funding, the application will also be discussed with the Municipality of Oslo. I'm very concerned about the safety and the offer of these women. No women have been or shall be put on the street. Oslo Crisis Centre has informed that they can organise an offer for these women with two or three beds at any time. Many of the women will also be able to benefit from the regular offer at the crisis centres. For those in direct jeopardy today, the police will be able to take protective measures with a secret address and/or a fictitious identity. No one has earned the return of these women to violence or threats because of the failure to take responsibility for the measures taken and covered by the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e824	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think there's a significant difference between a crisis center and a book collective. Immigrant women who have been subjected to violence and have to break out of marriage often lack Norwegian knowledge, and they often lack knowledge of Norwegian society, so a book collector is in the middle of their flash. And maybe in many cases we can also avoid them looking for a new identity if we can make such an offer. Therefore, it is a little strange that the Council of State is now using the new funding mechanism for crisis centres, where the state's share has risen from 50 p.p. to 80 pst. from 1 January of this year, as a reason for now, this will be a good thing. It was something that the opposition, i.e. the Workers' Party, SV, the Advance Party and the Center Party, ordered the Government, but what the government replied to when this was to be done was that you took the same money from the municipalities. This means that municipalities do not want more money to operate these new measures. Does the Council of State not see that this does not mean that the municipalities are not more positive than they were before the grant was increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e831	This was an explanation of how this housing offer had been financed in the past, namely via the Crisis Centre in Oslo; it was thus more an explanation of how the system was. So what is now available is a completely different application for an extended offer, because, as we have understood, you have not been able to provide good enough protection for these women as it has been driven to this day. The book collection where they have lived has also been known, so that when we hear that the offer of accommodation is completely self-contained, without the involvement of the department, and we have received an application after a completely new offer, we have given a preliminary answer, not that we reject it, but that we have to go further into this application, because a completely different offer is being applied for than what has been run in the past. We will review the application and, of course, we will come back to the answer later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e838	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that you need to go through this application if this is a new concept – and perhaps a better concept. But what's so stupid is that the competence built up in the book collection that was run in Oslo is now gone. And we're still getting reports that an increasing number of forced marriages are breaking up, that women are breaking out. Now the municipalities also had to pay for these women at the Book Collective in Oslo, because they lived in another county when they broke out of marriage. The whole funding mechanism becomes very difficult and hopeless by the fact that new requirements for coverage still have to be made. Will the Governments clean up this funding system?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e847	I'm actually a little uncertain about this last question, about ‘cleaning up this funding system’. We have just, as the representative also says, made a change in the financing of the crisis centre, for which my department is responsible. Then we have received an application for a completely different measure, which I have said we should now look at, but the department has not managed this closure. This closure has been carried out on an independent basis, regardless of the contribution of the Ministry, and an application for a new measure has thus been made in retrospect. Finally, I would also like to mention that there are other housing offers that are secret, namely one of the measures in our Forced Marriage Plan, where the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, in cooperation with the House Bank, has made some housing – ten pieces – with the necessary equipment. They have been made available to young people who have come under compulsion and can be offered to young people throughout the country at very short notice. So this is also a measure we have in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e858	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: «Menn Mot Vold has received support for its operations from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the municipality of Trondheime and the health region of Mid-Norway. [[MMV]] MMV works to raise awareness of the extent to which women are exposed to the risk of being raped or subjected to physical violence in close relationships. The MMV has applied for operational means to employ an Executive Director, who shall be primarily responsible for the coordination, administration and teaching activities. Work is now at risk of ending economic activity. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e867	As the representative of May Hansen knows, the Government has adopted an action plan against violence in close relations, a plan that expires in 2007, where my department has autonomy or shared responsibility for 24 of the 30 actions in the plan. The main emphasis of the Ministry's funds for action against violence is on implementing this action plan, including our share of operational support to the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS. The Ministry also has limited resources to support applications for other measures to prevent violence. However, we have two consecutive years given $50,000 to Menn Against Violence. The allocation of funds to organisations in this area has been added to the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family in the context of the Child Protection Reform from 1 January 2005. Since the department no longer has funds for this purpose, we have asked Menn Mot Vold to contact the directorate and apply for funds from there. The Ministry also provides support for Reform – the Men’s Resource Centre – with 2 million. kr annually. We have asked Reform to interact with the environments working with men and violence to develop prevention strategies. I want to ask Reform to invite Menn Mot Vold into this work. I very much appreciate the fact that Trondheim Municipality and Health Region Mid-Norway sees the need for such a preventive activity as Menn Mot Vold operates in the region, and so the department has contributed a smaller amount to Menn Mot Vold for, among other things. strengthening the possibility of finding local solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e880	I would like to thank you for your answer. The previous question, which was asked by Signe Eye to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, can, in my view, be compared to this question. Good, targeted low-threshold offers are being dropped all over the country. I have asked a few questions to the Minister for Children's Affairs and Family Affairs the last time. I believe that when you have an action that works, that is targeted, that costs little, it has to be continued. I believe that this is to a certain extent the responsibility of the Council of State when making an action plan. What's going to work? What measures should be taken? What are we going to spend money on? Does the Council of State believe that good, targeted action should be continued? And does the Council of State think it's her responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e889	This measure is not directly linked to the action plan, as I recall. This organisation is a member organisation with 200 members, and it has been operating since 2001, as I know it. They're doing a very good job. They work and have wonderful purposes. But it is that we have an incredible number of applications from membership organisations and non-governmental organisations in different areas, and we have very limited resources independent of this action plan. As I said in my answer, the funds we spend in the Action Plan against violence go mainly through other sources. That's what makes me unable to see that in our ministry's budget for 2005, we are able to make an application for 500 000 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e896	I would like to thank you again for your answer. I think it's extremely important that men get on the field on these questions. There are few measures in Norway where men take this responsibility and do this job. Reform in this way is a very good measure. We have a negative development. I believe prostitution is violence against women. We see in Norway today that prostitutes establish themselves in Norway because we have a large market. There are now children on the street in Oslo. I am convinced that after taking a few rounds of the Child Protection Guard. They can, of course, legitimize that they're over 18 years old, but they look like they're well under 18 years old. This is a development that I know the Council of State is also concerned about. When men are on the job, priority should be given to these measures. I could also imagine hearing the thoughts of the Council of State about what is now happening on the street in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e907	I fully agree with the May Hansen representative that we need different measures, and that it is incredibly positive that men too are committed to violence in our society. Now it is also the case that we have not, in itself, refused that Menn Mot Vold could receive support in 2005. It's just that the funds are channelled through the directorate. We've asked Menn Mot Vold to make contact there. I hope, of course, that they will. Having said that, I would also like to say that we are channelling a good deal of funding through reform, which is also a very good measure, where men are engaged on a large scale, and where there are also assistance for men. At the same time, we have the new Knowledge Centre, where we are to establish treatment services for men who are or have been violent. We also think that's an important grant. The second question is more general about children and issues in Oslo. I actually don't think the time goes to answer that. But it's possible to ask new questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e929	Steinar Bastesen is not present in the hall, and we move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e936	The question to the Minister for Education and Research is as follows: ‘The right of parents to choose their children’s education is a principle enshrined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights Article 26.3. In adopted conventions, this principle is divided into two secondary principles: first, parents have the right to ensure education for their children in accordance with their own beliefs and, second, the right to choose schools for their children other than those established by public authorities. How will the Council of State secure this right?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e945	The right of parents to choose the type of school their children will receive is a principle set out in Article 26(1). 3 of the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights. Norway is bound by this declaration by international law. Parents' right to choose training for their own children is also part of the parental right under the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. This Convention shall apply as Norwegian law. It also does so in the European Convention on Human Rights, which establishes the duty of the State to respect the right of parents to ensure education and education in accordance with their own religious and philosophical beliefs. On this basis, under the Education Act and the Law, parents have access to choose four alternative forms of primary education for their children: education in a public primary school, training in a private primary school, training in an independent primary school or private home education. Only very few choose home education in Norway. Private primary school training means that the student attends a school approved by the Training Act but not entitled to or receiving State grants, which may therefore require as much school money as it likes. Fortunately, we have very few such schools in Norway. Education in an independent primary school means that the student attends a private primary school, known as a post-secondary school, which is approved under the Law on Secondary Education. Such a school receives state subsidies, but must meet in return a number of requirements for quality, content and operation: schools must have a content and quality that is consistent with the public school, schools cannot silencing or sorting students, there is no possibility of collecting any forms of dividends, and there are strong restrictions on the amount of school money. The purpose of the law is thus to ensure that the right to choose primary private schools is not reserved not only for those who have good advice but that this right is as equal as possible for all. The Free School Act is a grant law, as was the old private school law. In contrast to the private school law that applied until 1 October 2003, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on In addition, a right of recognition is introduced if the schools comply with the requirements of the law and provided that the recognition will not lead to significant and long-term negative consequences for the local authority and the inhabitants of the municipality. The aim of all legislation in primary education is, in spite of the fact that the provision to pupils as a whole should be the best possible. Diversity and freedom of choice can be good in themselves, but it can also contribute to increased quality throughout the school system. At the same time, account must be taken of local authorities' ability to fulfil their obligations towards pupils. The number of pupils in private and independent primary schools in Norway is very low compared to almost all other countries. However, I believe that the parents' right to choose training for their children is well respected by today's legislation and the changes that have been made in recent years. It is important that freedom and the right to choose an alternative school are the same for everyone, but it is not an end in itself that as much as possible should choose anything other than the public school. The fact that so many choose to go to public schools in Norway suggests great satisfaction with the offer. The government's school reform, the promise of knowledge, aims to make the public school even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e962	I thank you for your answer. I have a follow-up question. I agree with the Council of State that the point here is not that you should be forced to choose something else, but you should have the right to choose what you want for your children. The government, together with the Progress Party, has been given the law of free school, which in its purpose paragraph relates the purpose of the Norwegian law to both the intention and the text of the UN Declarations in relation to parents' right to choose school for their children. But this arrangement is under attack. Among other things, both we who are politicians behind the law and we who are parents are clearly told by the red-green option that they will do their utmost to remove this law, even in the middle of the school year. What is the Council of State's assessment of possibly going back to the former private school law? Will this be a violation of the UN principles that have now been incorporated into Norwegian legislation to ensure parents' right to choose education for their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e971	It is probably my opinion that no one – no government or any party – can deprive parents of the right to choose an alternative school for their children. It is enshrined in the Declaration of Human Rights and elsewhere. The Free School Act, and the old private school law, is basically just a grant law where we want to preserve the right everyone has in any case, in such a way that it applies to everyone and not only to those who have good advice. That is the purpose of the old private school law and now the law of free school. However, we believe that the old private school law was too snuff in the sense that it only gave some this opportunity, namely those who preferred a religious-ethical alternative or an alternative pedagogy. It was still such that this slightly narrowed criterion was gradually difficult to practice. I remember that the Workers' Party, with a certain right in the mid-1990s, wanted to stop the Montessori schools because it could no longer be shown that this was alternative pedagogy. The new school, established on the initiative of Mosse Jørgensen, would not be able to establish itself under the old private school law. The old law also contained a large room of discretion, which made it unpredictable for the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e976	Equally full is the fact that with the law we have received, school legislation is still linked to different laws, and there is also a clear difference in funding treatment for students. If we look at our neighboring country, the situation is completely different. In my opinion, the rights of the United Nations to free choice of parents are considerably better protected by one law and common and equal funding system. The question is, on the basis of what we have experienced in the CRL field, how parents and guardians of four students have actually been changed to legislation in Norway, what the process is going on, whether it is such that other parents in Norway actually have to go about the UN agencies to ensure their right to choose school for their children in Norway, or whether the Government will do something on its own to strengthen this right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e981	I get the feeling that this is raising two questions. The first is, should we clean up the law and get us one law in the field of basic education, in parallel with what has just happened in higher education, where we have received one law at the university? I have no current plans about it now, but I will not rule out that it is a sensible clearing in the future. The second question raised is the question of funding. There, the representative Sortevik knows that something remains until we have fully met the Sem-Declaration's objective of also providing capital grants, even though we have started to do so in agreement with, among other things. The party of progress. Then it's partly a matter of taste if you want to provide full funding and have zero prostheses or to give a share of the funding and allow certain prostheses. Sweden has the system that it is 100 pst. financing of the post-secondary schools. You're not allowed to take a fair share. But the most important difference in relation to Sweden is, in my opinion, that it is possible to take advantage of the operation, which makes the Swedish law very different from the Norwegian one. And so the Swedish law is administered by a social-democratic government.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e993	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: «Special education rights are necessary to ensure a satisfactory training offer for students with special difficulties. The Dyslexia Association in Norway reports the following experiences: Some schools practice stricter requirements for ‘diagnosis’ in order to receive special education, due to: poor local economy. Students who have previously had special education are now informed that, instead of special education, students will be trained within the ordinary course. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1002	The student’s right to training is governed by the Training Act. Training shall be adapted to the needs of each student, if necessary by means of special education. The better the general and adapted training, the fewer special education will be needed. The right to special education for each student must therefore be assessed in relation to the measures taken in regular training. This means that the right to special education for each student at a particular school may vary if the school chooses to apply other or new measures to strengthen general, adapted training. It also means that a student may be entitled to special education in a municipality, at a school or in a group for a given year, but not in another municipality, at another school or group, because the degree of organisation and general measures varies. The question shows that some schools practice more stringent requirements for ‘diagnosis’ in order to receive special education. For the sake of order, I would like to make it clear that the right to special education does not depend on the student having a particular diagnosis or on a particular category of learning difficulties. It is crucial whether or not the student receives satisfactory benefits from the regular training provision. Before any decision on special education is taken, expert judgement shall be required. However, although students’ rights do not depend on a specific diagnosis, in certain contexts it may be important for a diagnosis to be included in the expert assessment. Something else is that there may be a technical disagreement about the use of the diagnosis of dyslexia. It is the municipalities and county councils as school owners who are responsible for the fulfilment of the right to training under the Training Act, whether this is regularly organised or special education. If it is considered that the training rights are not fulfilled under the provisions of the Act, this should ultimately be addressed to the county councillors, who have supervisory and review powers in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1015	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I stress that the Stortinget has stated that the right to special education should be maintained, but that better adapted training can reduce the need for this. It's important to have a little bit of focus on the order here. It is not that one should weaken the right to special education, i.e. that one has a clear ability to meet the needs of adapted training already, i.e. the existence of a good alternative offer. Recordings we've received indicate that there's a concern out there among relatives and students that the right they've experienced to have had in the past is actually being taken away from them, because someone's blaming you for taking action now in the ordinary course of training. It is my impression that things are going a little fast, and this is probably not the only case.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1024	Let me highlight a couple of things. Firstly, triggering the right to special education does not depend on a diagnosis. It's very important to say, although there may be a diagnosis. Point 2: The claim that there is a link between the use of diagnosis and economics, I do not have evidence to confirm. But I have been through the department today in contact with the Dyslexia Association, which believes that some school owners, as part of the fight to reduce the ‘necessary’ special education, have developed lists, so to speak, on which diagnostics are to trigger special education, and that the guidelines often contain a list of diagnostics, but not necessarily dyslexia. I believe that this is not the right way to understand special education. On the basis of the information that the Dyslexia Association has given us, I want to try to go a little bit further into this, so that the understanding of this is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1033	I thank again the Council of State for the answer, and I think it is positive that she will go into this and look at the concerns of the relatives and students in school everyday. The important thing for me to stress is that we need to safeguard the right to organised training, or special education, until it is well documented that a person actually has an alternative good offer in relation to what everyone is engaged in, to get more adapted training in general in school. One must simply not use either the economy or the desire for less special education to weaken it until it is ensured that those in need of special organisation actually receive it under the provisions of the Training Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1040	I agree with this. What remains is to carry out some detailed studies as to whether there is evidence that there is an economic situation or a lack of consideration of diagnosis that determines the right to special education and the benefit of training for students. The positive thing will be if there are schools and municipalities that receive regular training in such a good way that the need for special education falls away. But here, there are also statements of the opposite, and I'll go a little bit closer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1049	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘Tank boat ‘Fjord Champion’s downhill off the south coast revealed a very poor ropeboat readiness along this coastline. It was only coincidences that prevented an environmental disaster. The south has the country's most busy coastline. This should provide a fully sound preparedness along the coast of the country. Nevertheless, it took 15 hours for the tanker to receive the necessary assistance. How does the Council of State assess preparedness along the south coast in the light of this event, and what will he do now?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1058	Towing boat standby in Norway south of Lofoten is based on available private tug capacity and on assistance from other ship traffic. This has been the case, and this is also the case in the overall report on treatment. In North Norway, on the other hand, the State has assumed responsibility for the towing boat capacity, because there are no towing boat resources available based on private activities in that part of the country. In the context of the MT «Fjord Champion», the Coast Guard informed that a tugboat – after it had first been reported from the ship that the father was over – was requested on 5 March at 5 p.m. 00.30, after the fire had flared up again. The coastal works also informed them that the tugboat would take eight hours to reach the ship, while it spent 12.5 hours and was on the way. 13 March. The coastal works do not have any agreements with rescue companies. On the other hand, we have an agreement with the Coast Guard. In addition, the Coastal Agency may use facilities related to the operator’s preparedness in relation to the oil operations on the continental shelf. Access to tugboat resources is related to the level of commercial activity. For the part of the Oslofjord and Skagerrak area, the main gravity of the tugboat resources is related to the Battle tangent and the traffic to and from the Grenland area. In the West there are towboat resources in connection with the activities of Sture and Mongstad. There are also other smaller tugboat operators in the Oslofjord and Skagerrak areas, but there is uncertainty about these tugboats, which have relatively little capacity, and they are not always manned. In addition to the Norwegian resources, you can pull tugs from Sweden and Denmark. In this case it was assessed, but it was considered not to be applicable. After the event with the MT «Fjord Champion», I have asked the Coastal Directorate to evaluate the whole accident. Because even though we are very satisfied that we managed to avoid damage to people and to avoid damage to the environment, we are not equally satisfied that it took so long to obtain towing boat capacity. Then it must also be emphasised that the fire that crashed on board made the work of the rescue skates that were there difficult for the coastguard vessels that were there and for the ro-ro ship that tried to assist in the incident. The sum of this, however, is that it went well this time, but we are now evaluating and looking at whether things could have been done in another way, and whether the tug capacity is satisfactory. Now it should also be said that in the area there are several tugs, but all were not available, because one tug was not allowed to crew, others were in Hirtshals and during towing. So there were several things that made this accident difficult to deal with. As I said, not least the fire that crashed contributed to the difficulty of getting towing on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1071	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I do not think it was satisfactory from what has actually happened. I had hoped that the Council of State could be a bit clearer that the Government intends to do something within a somewhat shorter time frame, instead of just pushing these improvement measures into the future by referring to an evaluation. There is also very good reason to be very surprised at the exasperation we experienced during the crash to the MT «Fjord Champion» at the south coast the other day. There is no doubt that this accident revealed serious failure and serious deficiencies in relation to a relevant preparedness that should have been there, and one can imagine what could have happened if not almost pure luck had been on our side in this matter. I would like to ask: why can't the Council of State be clearer that the Government intends to make improvements in preparedness immediately and not just push this forward by pointing out that this is to be evaluated etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1076	The government has improved its preparedness along the coast, and we have explained that in the news of the Great Britain that is being treated. This event shows that there is a towing boat standby, but it was not available. It has shown that several vessels came to the Havarist – rescue skates, coastguard vessels and commercial vessels. The circumstances made it difficult to tow on board, not least because of the fire. And once again, the first commandment is to avoid damage to life and health, the next is to avoid environmental problems. Both parts were successful. That's what I think we're going to give to those who are out on the ocean, credit for, and not easily say that this took too much time, or that it was exasperation. Yes, we could have wished this had gone faster, but the circumstances had been more favorable, cf. The fire, this could also be handled in another way. Otherwise, it took 12.5 hours for a tug to be recovered until it was there, despite the fact that we were informed that it would take eight hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1081	I thank the Council once again for the answer. But let me remind you that if the next time there was a breakdown that really causes a lot of things, for example. oil pollution along the south coast could have disastrous environmental consequences. According to what I'm informed about, it's especially the oil recording equipment that's not good enough if an accident of the kind we're talking about here should first be out. This as the Council of State points out, that the fire made it difficult to get a tower on board, is quite real and absolutely correct. Why are there not enough boats equipped to extinguish fire, you can also ask. And what is actually the Council of State's assessment of the possibility of limiting environmental damage along the south coast with what is currently available in the country's territory, for example. oil and boat recording equipment capable of extinguishing fires? Is it good enough after the Council of State's assessment, after which he had to have information about?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1086	We have to recognise that shipping poses a risk. But shipping is not a problem. However, it is clear that no matter how much readiness we have, no matter how much we have of tug capacity or collection equipment, there is the risk of an accident. We have seen in several cases that we have avoided environmental disasters, we have avoided damage to life and health. That means we have a good readiness, we have good people dealing with this. So it'll always be that way that in retrospect you can see that improvements are needed. That's why I've asked the Coast Guard to go through the tug capacity, not only in this region, but throughout the country, and then we'll report back to Stortinget before it deals with the potion notification. However, in the big news, we explain the measures we have implemented, and the measures we intend to take to improve the area of collection as well. It is wrong to claim that we have poor equipment. We have the best equipment in the world, but there will always be a question of quantity in relation to the most dramatic emissions. Therefore, it is also important that the quality of ships improves. It's working with the international force that's driving Norway. And last, but not least, securing bunker tanks in a better way than today is a big challenge. We've also taken that up, and the IMO is working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1097	I guess there's nothing that makes such a strong impression on us people as a fire – and a big fire: ‘The images of a burning Fjord Champion sit on the Internet of most of us. It could have gone very wrong. Missing towing boat readiness has been a lot of focus. According to the media, this lack of preparedness is a consequence of an analysis of the costs of such preparedness against the costs of oil disaster remediation. The conclusion shall be that it pays to bet on cleaning. How many kilometres of oil-contaminated coastline does the Council of State consider an acceptable price for the lack of towing boat standby?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1106	On the NRK Evening News on 6 March, reference was made to the Prestige Marine, and it was claimed that the Coastal Works claim that it is more expensive to have a towing boat ready than to clean up after an accident. In the consignment, there was no special source, but the Coastal Plant in general. The Ministry and I have taken this up with the Coastal Works, and the Coastal Works are not aware that anyone responsible for the Coastal Works has stated this. Therefore, it is impossible for me to comment on a claim that is not documented, either by the questioner. On the contrary, the government considers that the main thing is that accidents do not occur. In St.meld. No 14, which lies in the United Kingdom, we have explained a number of prevention measures and that the Government will introduce further preventive measures to help ensure that increased coastal traffic does not lead to an increase in the risk of accidents. Among other things, this includes: the continuation of state towing boat readiness in North Norway. As I have explained earlier today, we are now reviewing the total towing boat capacity along the coast. We evaluate the last accident, with ‘Fiord Champion’, and we want to brief the Storting before giving the staging of the staging message, especially in the case of ‘Fiord Champion’. It could be that we need longer time to review the tug capacity. In that case, we will explain it in an appropriate manner, either in the budget proposal or in the other context. Nevertheless, we will never be able to guard ourselves fully against accidents. However, in the event of contamination, it is necessary to limit the damage, in which case the oil protection equipment must be kept high and at a good level. Therefore, the question as raised is impossible to answer, because there are no such calculations, nor are there any responsible opinions of the Coastal Administration indicating such a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1117	After hearing an answer here earlier today to a similar question, it may not be an unexpected conclusion that you will not answer, or say it is impossible to answer, the question. Then we'll see if we can dig out the source material on it. On 15 March, the Council of State has a reading entry under the title ‘Dragon and coastal preparedness’. A lot is said here, among others. the following: ‘It is important to evaluate the preparedness after the base attack with Fjord Champion, to see if there is a system failure or if there was a coincidence of unfortunate circumstances that led the ship to obtain ground support before the required towing capacity for the seafarer.’ My question to the Council of State is, Is it that simple? Is it only these two choices you have in the evaluation? So how can you evaluate a system that many claim doesn't exist? You don't have a good enough preparedness to evaluate. In terms of coincidences of unfortunate circumstances, it has been pointed out before today that it went very well. It could have gone a lot worse if it had been bad weather. So once again, is it so simple that there are only two alternatives to evaluate?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1131	I have to say it is a somewhat strange situation that a wholesaler asks me to comment and answer a question and a claim that cannot be documented is made. I cannot respond to a statement that someone in the Coastal Works should have made, when no one can prove or acknowledge that they have said so. Questions in the questionnaire then become a little difficult to answer. Had someone said that, I could have commented on it, but at least you can't criticize a council because he won't answer a question that no one can prove. It makes the matter quite hopeless, and I am amazed that such questions are really being asked. After the accident with the «Fjord Champion», we are now being prepared in terms of towing boat capacity, and we are evaluating the accident. At the same time, there is a message in Stortinget that explains in detail both what we have done and what we intend to do to build up the preparedness. I think it would be reasonably daring to draw the conclusion of the Fjord Champion that preparedness is not good along the coast. We have a good preparedness, but as I've argued all along, this will always be associated with risk. We are now going through whether there is a system fault or a coincidence of unfortunate circumstances that caused the tugboat capacity to be absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1138	I just want to say that I think it is a little remarkable that the Council of State will not answer my question. It was not at all the angle to what the Coastal Works or others have said, it was the angle of the Council of State reading in the Fisheries Bulletin, where he talked about two options for evaluation – i.e. system failure or coincidence of unfortunate circumstances. I insist that I think it may be a bit too narrow an evaluation theme. But leave it alone, we can't press a government council to respond, at least not today. I just want to refer to the big message that is much mentioned, on the safe side. There is a more pinkish-red picture of the situation on the coast. There's a possibility for the Council of State to tighten it up, because it's in Stortinget. I want to ask about two things: does the Council of State see the need to tighten up the Storing Message in relation to what has now happened in the South? And will the Council of State make recordings in the form of any signals to its people in the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1145	With respect, sometimes I wonder if you listen to the answer. I have repeated several times, also to this question, that the Coastal Works are now reviewing the tug-boat capacity along the whole coast and will evaluate the Fjord Champion Sea. Then I have added that Stortinget will be briefed on this before giving the cancellation of the Storing Message. To draw the conclusion before the Coastal Works have been evaluated, I think it is wrong. If, for political reasons, you want to draw a blacker picture, you obviously have the right to do that. But I think we have to do things in the right order. That is why I have also announced today, and I am now repeating that we are reviewing this. In the case of Fjord Champion, the evaluation shall be made known to Stortinget before the Committee gives its opinion. So I have said that it is possible that we may need more time in the case of tug capacity. In that case, we'll get back to Stortinget, either in the budget proposal for the harvest or in another suitable way. So the answer is positive, but you have to hear what the council answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1156	The question to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is as follows: ‘The wreck of the Russian cruise ‘Murmansk’ has been in the spring outside the town of Sørvær in Hasvik municipality for more than 10 years. Despite several local initiatives, one failed to remove the shattering wreck. This is too big a problem for the municipality to solve it alone. In previous cases, the State has taken responsibility for the removal of the corresponding shipwreck. Why will the Government not ensure that the State also takes responsibility for the removal of the wreck of «Murmansk»?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1165	During the haul from Murmansk port to India for hijacking, the cruise ‘Murmansk’ drove on land at South Weather, in 1994. In 1995, an attempt was made to rescue the vessel, which failed. ‘Murmansk’ is one of many wrecks along the Norwegian coast. The Coastal Warfare database has recorded 2,300 wrecks that have sunk along the coast since 1914. Under the pollution law, the shipowner/owner is responsible for the removal of the wreck. To the extent that State action is to be taken, these must be directed primarily at wrecks which present a real risk of acute pollution or obstruction to shipping. The risk of contamination from the wreck of the «Murmansk» crossing has been assessed several times. Several studies in the late 1990s indicated that there are no larger volumes of oil left in the wreckage and that there is no risk of contamination. State pollution control therefore recommended that the ship be stowed. New claims that ‘Murmansk’ was not emptied of oil before towing were made in March 2000. In the light of the new information, State pollution control reduced a project group to carry out a detailed review of the available material as well as drawings to assess the presence of oil residues in the waste, despite the fact that several studies had previously indicated that this was not the case. The group was led by the State Pollution Control and consisted in addition to the Maritime Directorate, Norske Veritas and Ødegaard Berging. The project team’s assessment was that there are petroleum products on board again in ‘Murmansk’ and there is a minimal leaching, but not on such a scale – I stress it – that this could lead to acute contamination of importance. The group concluded that further action was not necessary. Studies carried out thus conclude that the wreck does not present a risk of acute contamination to the environment. I therefore do not consider it appropriate for the State to give priority to the removal of the wreck «Murmansk».
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1182	So here we are in a situation where it's found that there is a risk of contamination. It is said that it is not an acute pollution hazard, but it is found that yes, it is a pollution hazard. This wreck is also very close to land. One thing is that it looks ugly. Another side of this is that it can be dangerous for people moving in the area. I think it is unusually sad that we have a government that is not prepared to take a single roof to solve this situation, which for Sørvær and Hasvik actually is to regard as important and serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1189	I see that the representative Haga thinks it is unusually sad that we have a government that will not remove the wreck, because it is visually and otherwise shameful. But then I assume that the representative Haga is happy that the Government of Bondevik I, with Peter Angelsen as Minister for Fisheries, has left. Because he did the exact same assessment. He also had a report from the SFT saying that it did not have such a negative environmental impact that it was right to spend money on the state budget to remove the ship. My predecessor, who represented the Center Party, drew exactly the conclusion that I have done. So it must mean that at least there is great joy in the Center Party because that minister has left, because I can't perceive it any other way, when you say it's unusually sad that the government won't remove the wreck. This is an assessment made by governments since it occurred in 1994 and until now. The same conclusion has been reached that there is no environmental risk that means that considerable resources are being used to remove the ship. But otherwise, it is clear that it is unfortunate that the ship is lying there, like any of the 2,300 wrecks that are found along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1194	As the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs puts it, it is a risk of pollution. This has been reviewed several times, and it has been found again to be a risk of contamination. We know that people are concerned about this wreck, and I assume that the Minister for Fisheries and Coast has also been in South Africa and seen what this looks like. This is a place that is exceptionally well suited to, not least, tourism. It's embarrassing that we could develop this great place even in the tourist context. At some point, someone will have to take responsibility for this. I can now only note that the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and this government have no intention of doing anything. So then we're going to try to get other costs to take more care of the matter later.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1199	Any wreck that lies along the coast, one might want to have gone away. A grant of 44.7 million has been applied for from the municipality and a group. kr to remove the vessel. I have found that to be out of proportion to the disadvantage that is. That's why we rejected it. And I have made the same assessment as previous fisheries ministers: Jan Henry T. Olsen, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, Peter Angelsen. We have come to the same conclusion that it is not advisable to use so much resources to remove a vessel that does not present an acute pollution hazard. So I'm a little surprised that you take this up after so many years, when now the representative Haga has suddenly been in Hasvik and seen this wreck. Several governments and several fisheries ministers have assessed this, including the Central Party's own government and its own minister, and I have supported the same conclusion as the Government and the Minister for Fisheries did. So to the extent that I was going to take inward some criticism from the representative Haga, I share it with the Central Party's own state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1204	So we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1213	This question, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1218	I have allowed myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions, which I now record that the Minister for Fisheries will answer: «The tanker «Fjord Champion» recently landed in Søgneskjærgården, after standing in fire and drifting around in the vulnerable southern archipelago for more than eight hours. Ship traffic along the Norwegian coast has increased significantly in recent years and the risk of loss and unprecedented natural disasters is increasing sharply. What environmental assessments have the Councils made in relation to the increased risk of natural disasters from ships operating along our vulnerable coast?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1227	The government presented St.meld on 21 January of this year. No 14, On the safe side – maritime safety and oil protection, and it is now under treatment in the Storting. In preparing that communication, the Norwegian Veritas and Norconsult carried out an analysis of the risks associated with coastal maritime transport by 2015. This analysis shows that the environmental risk associated with today’s maritime traffic is relatively low along the whole coast. Here, however, I would like to draw attention to the fact that not only the extent of emissions, but also the extent and extent of quantities that often affect more sensitive areas, of course affect the risk of permanent damage to the environment. However, some areas of the West and Oslo Bank are still different. There are areas of high traffic and areas where significant environmental resources can be damaged by possible emissions. I'm talking about e.g. densely populated areas, recreational areas, protected/peaceed areas and bird growing areas, such as: on Round and Helgeland. The analysis further points out that the transport of oil from Russia to Europe and the United States is expected to increase significantly by 2015, both in the northern waters and from the Baltic Sea and through the Skagerrak. Increased maritime traffic means increased risk. For parts of North Norway and the West in particular, the risk is increasing. Of course, the increased transport of oil in Skagerrak also affects the risk profile. That is why, in the main message, we have proposed increasing preparedness and new measures in the years to come. This means that we need to put in place new measures in the field of oil protection and maritime safety by 2015, so that we can meet the challenges of Veritas’ risk analysis. The government assesses the current situation and has in St.meld. No 14 proposed a number of new measures in the field of maritime safety and oil protection so that we will be well equipped for tomorrow's coastal shipping. The notification also provides an overview of measures already in place. The government believes it is important to prevent accidents at sea and thus also to reduce the risk of acute contamination. Injury caused by shipwrecks and oil spills can, as we know, be very serious, and both in Norway and in the rest of the world, we have seen dramatic effects. That means that we also have to be able to limit the damage when the accident is first out, because we have to recognise, however prepared, that there is a risk associated with this. The construction of an efficient oil protection system is crucial in this context, and the government has placed great emphasis on this in the three or four years we have been in position. However, it must be clarified that it will not be possible, even with unlimited means, to build up an oil protection device capable of dealing with any foreseeable accident without damage to the environment. But we can point out more cases along the coast in recent times where we have managed to deal with them so that we have avoided damage to life and health and avoided damage to the environment, and there is a good example in that way of «Fiord Champion».
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1242	Let me say that I basically think it is an incredibly arrogant attitude on the part of the Minister for the Environment not to ask a question about the environment directly. In the Workers' Party, we are concerned about preparedness. We are concerned that we should have a preparedness that is acceptable in relation to what the environmental impact might be. We have now been through a discussion today in the spontaneous Question Time where the Council of State – the Minister for Fisheries – indicated that he should evaluate and assess preparedness. I would also like to point out what has happened to ‘Rocknes’, that there have been enough evaluations. But I asked about the environmental assessments, and not about budgetary resources – because then it is true that the Minister for Fisheries is responsible, not the Minister for the Environment – and I would like to make it clear once again that I think it is arrogant by the Government when it gets a question of environmental assessments, that it is not the Council of State responsible to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1249	I would strongly distance myself from the fact that this would be a rash of arrogance. Oil protection is the responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and therefore also my constitutional responsibility. That's why it's natural that I answer this question. When it is specifically linked to the ship «Fjord Champion», this is my responsibility. That's why I'm answering. I have explained the assessments that have been made, the risk analyses that have been carried out and on the basis of which the notification is available. A few months after our accession, when this government presented the big news, clean and rich seas, we drew the consequences of the experience that had been gained in the years before, namely that there was a need for better organisation and better coordination of preparedness and action. Then, oil protection, which was below the SFT and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, was transferred to the Ministry of Coastal Affairs. It does not just mean a budgetary responsibility. It also means real responsibility. It is a responsibility that we take, and therefore it is natural that I answer the question that was asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1256	This argument could have been used in relation to several budget chapters and responsibilities. You might ask what to do with a Minister for the Environment. But I'm going to try to angle the follow-up question to what has actually been raised in the debate on "Fjord Champion". The council has today clarified that there was a boat at the dock in Kristiansand, but it was not possible to get a crew for it, and therefore it could not be used. Thus, «Fjord Champion» flowed into the archipelago in Sägne. I have to ask the Council of State: what was the reason why one could not mann the boat? Was it disease or unforeseen events that did it? Or was it actually such that the preparedness in the area was too poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1265	Now we might be doing away with the evaluation of the whole thing before we draw any really great conclusions. Therefore I cannot answer for the reason that the specific boat could not be manned. But I want to distance myself from saying that the reason why the «Fjord Champion» stretched in the spring, one and only, was that this boat in Kristiansand did not let itself be manned. In addition, there was a vessel belonging to Arendal, but which was in Hirtshals. A third ship was already working. In this way the towing boat capacity was busy. But by the ship, early in the morning and beyond, even after it went down, it was then two rescue skaters, a smaller coastguard vessel, a larger coastguard vessel and a merchant ship – a roro ship. The large fire that crashed on board made it difficult to tow on board and made the rescue work difficult. But I think we also have to take the positive side, that we avoided an environmental disaster, we avoided damage to life and health. That's other aspects of what we're now evaluating. Then we get to come back and draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1270	Then we go back to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1277	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: «The Governing Board of the Health West has adopted a budget which represents a total operating deficit of 186 million. kr. The deficit budget has been implemented to prevent serious cuts in the supply of hospitals in the West. So far, the Council of State has not accepted the deficit. Health West is in a difficult situation, including: due to government misallocation of funds. Will the Council consider a postponement of the balance requirement for Health West, or other measures to protect patient care in the health region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1286	At the outset, I would like to remind you that the budgetary agreement reached between the Government Parties and the Advance Party opened up to postponing the balance sheet requirement for Health South, while the four other health care establishments are required to balance their finances in 2005. As I have said many times here in Stortinget, it is a matter of course that the decisions taken in this Chamber should be followed up by me. When the Stortinget has decided that Health West should balance by the end of 2005, I will of course take this into account. You have to run for the means that the Storting has put at its disposal. If I were to disregard the decision-making process on the financial framework for health businesses, the Riksrevision, and ultimately the Control Committee, would place the undersigned in charge of this Chamber. I also assume that the representative, Lysbakken, believes that a decision on the roll-call should be complied with. As regards the budgetary agreement for the 2005 budget, the bulk treatment decided to increase transfers to regional health enterprises by 500 million. kr. In the allocation of this additional appropriation, Health West together with Health Mid-Norway was significantly compensated. This was done to alleviate these two regions’ migration challenges. The Ministry has been in close and constant contact with Health West both before and after the business meeting on 17 January 2005, about the consequences of this requirement in Health West. At its meeting on 15 March, the Management Board of Health West discussed the revised group budget for 2005. I assume that the Governing Board is now working purposefully to achieve the balance sheet requirement in 2005 as a realistic requirement within the overall economic framework of Health West.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1299	Yeah, that's a clean word for the money. But it's a good thing to thank for the answer anyway, so I get to do that. Of course, a budget that has consequences that are perhaps more dramatic than the majority of the population – we hope at least – would have taken into account when they adopted this budget, could also trigger signals from a government that they want to look again at their own policies. I record that this is not the case here. After I submitted this question, there have been new consequences of demands for balance in the Health West. These cuts are divided into several health companies, and one of them is Health Fonna, where the director has gone out publicly and said that he thought these cuts were irresponsible. And on Monday, there was an eye-catching press release from Health West saying that the board of Health Fonna is set aside, because of the disagreement about the handling of these cuts. Does the Minister of Health believe that it can be defended that the board of a subsidiary is deposed because it participates in a public debate on the financial situation of hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1308	Now I think maybe one of the premises is wrong about the very question here, which is about the fact that you're taking part in a public debate, and that's what can lead to a government being set aside. Clearly, there are always certain limits to what you can participate in, even in a debate. Now I don't think that's what's the main conflict lines right here. But it's clear that every board and every director is set to implement, ultimately, what the Storting has decided, whether you like it or not. I don't think that participating in a debate would lead to anyone being assigned – then there might not have been any directors left in the health service. So I don't think you should weigh it too much. With regard to the migration challenge you have in Health West, it is neither larger nor smaller than what is going on and that has been throughout the last – as far as I remember at least – 25 years. There has always been an opportunity to apply approx. 1 to 2 pst. more than the financial framework we've been given. And if I don't take a lot of mistakes, I think it'll also be like that in the future, no matter what economic framework we put in the health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1315	This press release from Health West shows, therefore, that the only reason given is disagreement on the impact of the budget. But I would like to give the Minister of Health an opportunity to take a closer look at that. I will be sent a written question about it during the day. I hope that the Minister of Health will look into this matter, because it is serious if we get a situation in which the boards of health companies are cut off from expressing their sincere opinion on the consequences of the policy being pursued. With regard to the balance sheet requirement, it is difficult to understand the Minister of Health in any other way than that the health policy towards Health West is firm, regardless of its impact on patient provision. He has also not mentioned any other measures to protect the patient’s services in the region. It is then natural to ask the Minister of Health if it is so to understand that people in the West now have to expect a cut in the patient offer, and that such cuts will have the blessing of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1322	So many premises are added to what is finally a question, that it's almost impossible to answer it. It is totally inappropriate — to put it this way — to say something like that, regardless of its consequences, to implement something, like that. The consequences described in the migration challenges are definitely within the framework of a responsible healthcare system. I would like to remind you that despite all the black paint that can be read daily, there is growth in the number of employees, the financial framework and the number of patients being treated, and there is a reduced waiting time – in what is defined by the United Nations as being the world's best healthcare system. But I accept that in the spring of 2005, there may be more than ever black paint in most of the fines. I'm just taking note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1335	My question to the Minister of Health and Welfare is as follows: ‘In Westfold, there is concern that 6th construction steps at the hospital in Westfold are at risk. Former Minister of Health Højbräten stated to Tønsbergs Blad in October 2002 that work on construction step 6 would continue as planned. In a letter dated 6 February 2003, the Ministry also stated that it would ensure that this was carried out without giving a significant negative impact on the services provided by Health Sør RHF to the population of the region. Can the Council of State now confirm that the 6th stage of construction will be realised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1344	The sixth stage of construction at the hospital in Tønsberg was a construction project taken over by Health South RHF from the Vestfold County Municipality in connection with the reform. The Ministry’s starting point was that the project had progressed so far in the implementation of the acquisition on 1 January 2002 that a further and finalisation of the construction stage had to take place and that it had to be done without causing a significant negative impact on the health services of the population of Health South. This stage of construction shall be clear in October this year in accordance with the plan of progress. The actual development of this building stage is therefore almost complete, and the Ministry has ensured financing of the building by allocating the annual loan allocations. In line with the Stortingen’s decision, the Health South Business Meeting in Health South RHF has decided that Health South should have a deficit of up to 500 million. kr in 2005. It is the responsibility of Health Sør to allocate the savings requirements between health businesses in the region. The Board of Health South decided in the Board of Directors meeting in February 2005 that the distribution of potential deficits in 2005 to individual health businesses in the region should not go beyond the treatment of patients. In line with the decision of this board meeting, Health Sør at the company meeting with the Hospital in Vestfold on 7 February gave the health care company the opportunity to report a deficit of up to 61.1 million. kr. The Ministry will be and is in dialogue with Health South to re-assess the assumptions and framework conditions of the Hospital in Vestfold HF, as it is now drawing upon the completion of the building and to be put into service. I have no indication that the sixth stage of construction will not be realised – which is at the heart of the question raised by the representative Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1355	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I interpret so that funding is at least in place, but the operating resources – when built – are somewhat uncertain. Vestfold Central Hospital has received a saving charge of 106 million. NOK 34 million. NOK that the hospital has previously undertaken to save. As far as I can see, the financing of this hospital also did not take into account the significant additional costs involved in the influence of the new building, which I would assume is about approx. Twenty million. kr. Can the Minister of Health reasonably explain in detail how the final financing of the sixth stage of construction takes place, including the approx. Twenty million. kr in migration costs, while the hospital can operate with full treatment capacity during the migration phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1364	In all respect for both the President and the representative, I have to say that this is a completely different question from what has been asked in connection with the prepared questioning procedure. I have no option on a tight arm to go into what the representative calls a detailed financing arrangement for the operation that you have. It is the task of the regional health enterprise to allocate the resources it receives, so that there is a level playing field throughout the region. There are some special challenges related to financing the sixth stage of construction. At the moment the cost of capital and the cost of finance totaled between 30 and 40 million. kr, it is clear that it will burden the operating accounts of Westfold HF heavily. We are in dialogue with Health South about that. I have met the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs in Westfold on this subject. I am determined that we will handle it, on the basis of the letter that was sent in due course from the then Health Minister Højbräten, and that we will come up with a solution to this during this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1371	I thank you again for the answer. It may be that the question is difficult to answer, but it is also an answer. But what I want to get back to is the Minister of Health's first answer to me. I believe that there are still negotiations between Health South and this healthcare company on the means of starting operations in the new building when it is completed in October, and that these negotiations are not concluded. I see that as positive, so that in Westfold you don't have to worry that the patient treatment needs to be cut radically due to lack of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1378	I can sign out these two points. There is a dialogue between the Department and Health South, which, of course, once again has a dialogue with the hospital in Vestfold to see how to resolve the financial conditions that arise at the moment the entire funding burden for the sixth stage of construction comes in the operating accounts of Vestfold HF. There's a dialogue going on. It's not finished. We've had some meetings. We've already had new meetings on this. I believe and hope that we will come up with a solution that all parties can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1387	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «The board of Health West will decide next week on proposals to remove planned brain operations from Stavanger University Hospital [[SUS]] What would the State Council do to prevent such a decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1396	The draft of this response was written before we met on Monday where both the representative Meltveit Kleppa, other representatives from the rogalands bench and the undersigned participated. I'm going to answer for that reason what the situation is now. As the representative Meltveit Kleppa has of course got with him, the board of directors dealt with this matter this year. They decided to strengthen the cooperation that has been, and that should be, between Health Bergen and Health Stavanger, with various measures. A new cooperation agreement will now be established. It shall ensure professional obligatory cooperation between the two neurosurgery departments, including: with exchanges and training of specialists to ensure the competence of Stavanger. The agreement opens up planned brain operations in Stavanger to a certain extent, but so that the consideration of high quality patient care is taken into account both in Bergen and in Stavanger. The opening that was afraid was to be implemented is not in place. It has now been decided that what is now being done will have to be evaluated in a year's time. The grips that the Health West government is doing here are, as far as I can see, essentially in the context of a functional distribution with clear qualitative objectives, and it is important to put the strand under ‘qualitative targets’, related to the treatment of brain tumors. This type of adaptation of the tasks in the regions within a discipline is based on medical professional assessments and, in my opinion, is within the scope of action of the RHF Governors and in line with the responsibilities that we have given to the Governing Board. However, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa and I both saw, the setting that was supposed to be taken was not understood. I believe that the decision taken by the board is a wise decision to maintain the balance that should be in the activities in this area between the Stavanger environment and the Bergens environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1407	The Council of State is invigorating praise in this matter for its ability to listen, for its ability to act quickly. There can be no doubt that he has influenced the decision that one has every reason to be content with, and that pertains to Stavanger. I expect the Council of State has now gained insight into the solid work that has been done over time to build up the neurosurgical department with the professional competence that Stavanger currently has, and the security that this department provides to patients and relatives. I ask the Council of State to confirm that once one has focused so strongly on cooperation in the board of directors' decisions, it means a mutual obligation both for Bergen and for Stavanger to secure such cooperation, that is, a unified agreement, where the conflict points are resolved, and where one focuses on the safety of the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1416	I thank you for the commendable mention initially. You have to listen to that kind of thing. With regard to the reciprocity of the existing agreement, it is quite clear that if this is to be what is required, it requires effort on both sides. It's definitely. A cooperation agreement like this one demands that the Bergens environment also exhibits the beauty that is necessary to a department like that in Stavanger, which maybe only operates one-sixth of what you do in Bergen. This will, of course, require some in the professional field as well. However, I am quite sure that Stavanger University Hospital – as we must now call it, it is now a university hospital, and I record that the representative Meltveit Kleppa uses it very often, as is quite right – will be taken care of. Let me say it this way: at least it won't be on my mind to help that cooperation is on track, and obstruction will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1425	I thank you for a positive and constructive answer. I think with the past of neurosurgery when it comes to the relationship between Bergen and Stavanger, it's very important that the council here says it shouldn't be on him, because there's enough area that he should follow closely forward. So there's a question that forces itself forward, I thought, in connection with this case, and that's: Is the Council of State satisfied with today's governance model? Prior to the reform, a clear regional populist took the initiative against patient groups, who took the initiative against the media in the area in question, and who also gave clear messages to the Stortinget. So in this case, one of the states spokesmen, big-time representatives and others have been rushing around at a speed to get this matter up in time to influence the board, as they were with their budgets in their closed rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1434	We don't have time to go completely into evaluating the entire hospital reform. Let me put it this way: the reform we got wasn't exactly in line with what was my party's principal wish. I want to say it so that it is with this reform as with most, it has its strengths and its weak sides. I'm busy trying to compensate for the weak aspects, and that means that the way you run a regional health company from the owner's position, which is the Minister for Health, will have to be different from the way you run any other company. At the moment that I see that a regional health company does not – I was saying – carry out with great zeal what is the wish of its owner, and that definitely reflects the globalisation of national health policy, it is my job to act. And I don't have to wait until we've thrown the whole government out. As long as we have a phone in this country, I think it should go absolutely brilliant in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1443	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «In recent years, the transport sector has undergone major changes as a result of competitive tendering. This has influenced the organisation of the role of the transport sector in various crisis situations. Not least is this experience during the extensive storm we have seen in Sweden and Denmark this winter. How does the Council of State feel that the role of the transport sector in our civil protection is ensured when different parts of the sector are put on the market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1452	First of all, I would like to stress that the sector is not open to tender – just for clarification. The outsourcing of competition shall not have a negative impact on the preparedness of the transport sector. In the road sector, preparedness has been assessed in the reorganisation of the state road system and the separation of production activities by the establishment of the share company Mesta. Since all works are now carried out by a number of private contractors through contracts, such aspects are regulated in the functional contracts entered into by the State Road Service for the operation and day-to-day maintenance of the road network. Contractors do not have the right to terminate the contract in situations of crisis. Furthermore, the contract opens up so that the builder can change the contract and redispatch the contractor’s resources when crisis situations arise. As far as the railway sector is concerned, the Railway Agency has until now put off competition for all investment works and parts of the renewal of the installations as well as for the maintenance of the railways. This has not had any impact on the preparedness, as existing manning and machinery available has been sufficient to cover all likely events triggering an emergency situation, including extreme weather, race, derailment, sunflower, etc. The continued outsourcing of the works of manufacture of the railway works places a significant emphasis on the provision of emergency measures. Emergency-dependent tasks will only be put at a competitive stage in 2007, based on a thorough investigation of the arrangements for distance-based functional contracts and carried out over a period of three years to gain experience. It is considered that functional contracts will clearly regulate different types of response-dependent conditions. Existing signalling and telecommunications installations that are particularly safety-critical will not be exposed to competition. The construction function of the railway works will be significantly strengthened, including: in order to carry out control and inspection tasks in a good manner. More stringent requirements will also be imposed on the railway works’ documentation of the technical condition of the network. The Ministry of Transport has asked State Railway Surveillance to follow closely the implementation of the competitive outlook. On the aviation side, the limited liability company Avinor has the same social emergency tasks as before the conversion into a limited liability company on 1 January 2003. The duties of society are laid down in the Avinor Statute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1478	I thank you for your answer. I see that the question could easily create some confusion as to what I was really looking for. What is most central to me in this context is the competitive outsourcing that has taken place on the bus transport side, because that was exactly what was discussed in Denmark during the storm that was. They had no readiness to transport people under the conditions that arose. In the past, we had it in the public companies in Norway that bus drivers were mobilized, they were registered, they were exempted from rehearsal exercises, because they were part of the total defense. This is a mobilization in relation to the social preparedness that has disappeared and that is perceived as being absent in the various companies. This is a cost factor, and I feel that as a result of tenders, this preparedness has been removed and not imposed on the new companies operating. My question is: does the Council of State see any need to strengthen this part of these companies' tasks in a crisis situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1487	It may have been because it says ‘the sector is on the market’, that it was a little unclear what it was really looking for. It's quite right that there have been demands here before. We're following this up. I am currently in the process of sending out to the hearing a new regulation on the planning and exercise of civil land, air and coastal transport preparedness, and this will affect the areas that the representative Froyn is in here now. Then I would also like to mention that precisely in this context is an actor like Avinor – who is not really about the bus, but who is an important actor here, in order to take what is on the aviation side – proposed to be represented together with the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency in an advisory forum on civil transport preparedness. Here, the type of questions that the representative here concerns will be discussed. And that's an important work. That's why we've started this regulatory work, to indicate clear responsibilities, and to know what we have at our disposal in a crisis situation. I would also like to mention that the Minister of Justice has set up a sample to secure the country's critical infrastructure. The committee shall assess the best possible way of ensuring the protection of the national security and vital interests of the State vis-à-vis private enterprises. It is also in order to take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1498	The background to my question is that I have been contacted by various actors in the industry, not least at administrative level, who over a two-three-year period have not actually heard anything from the authorities about what plans exist. Of course, if there were plans to carry out the tasks that were previously perfectly clear to the different businesses, there would be a point that they knew. Today the situation is that they have experienced that they have been in an emergency void for two to three years, and they know nothing about what is going to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1503	That's exactly why I'm sending this regulation to the hearing, to clarify the roles of the different actors. The actors referred to here will be involved in that hearing, so that we can get on the table both the ambiguities that exist, and not least the demands that we as authorities make to these very actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1512	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The defense chose a Turkish workshop to operate two Hercules aircraft. The result of this service, just at one point, was 155 missing, of which eight were so serious that the aircraft was not allowed to lighten. The choice of workshop was made according to the tender procedure. According to FLO/Operat, there was a choice between pests or cholera due to them. little money. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to use a workshop which it may not appear to be safe to maintain, and what will it contribute to ensuring that the aircraft are provided with the necessary service?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1521	I would like to start by saying that it is a little difficult to comment on a statement from FLO/Operat, when you are not able to find someone in the FLO/Operat who acknowledges this claim. But what I'd like to say is that the main maintenance of the Defence Transport Aircraft over the last ten years has been maintained by external maintenance operators, mainly at Marshall Aerospace in England. However, with the use of only one maintenance operator, a kind of monopoly situation has developed for this maintenance. This has created a level of costs which has made it difficult to implement the main maintenance of the airframes at an acceptable cost level. Therefore, the defense obtains offers from other maintenance actors. The offer from the US company Derco Aerospace Inc. was approximately 25 pst. under the offer of British Marshall Aerospace and enabled the main maintenance of the aeroplanes that were under way. On this basis, the FLO entered into a contract with Derco Aerospace Inc. in February/March 2004 for the maintenance of two of the Defence Transport Aircraft. Before the contract with Derco Aerospace Inc. was signed, the FLO carried out a quality control of Derco’s subcontractor, 2nd Air Supply and Maintenance Center Command in Turkey, to ensure that the quality systems satisfied Norwegian and international requirements. Aeroplanes are maintained to Norwegian manuals and Norwegian maintenance standards. As part of the quality assurance process, the FLO also decided that a Norwegian representative should be present at any time at the subcontractor of the US company in Turkey. In addition, an expanded pre-acquisition inspection shall be carried out. FLO review after maintenance of the first aeroplane showed several failures. I would like to stress that of course the defence has full warranty when it comes to such maintenance work. Therefore, all errors were corrected before the FLO took over the aircraft. Past experience, both with Marshall Aerospace in England and with SAS in Norway, shows that it is not uncommon for some errors to occur even after the main maintenance has been completed. In this case, the maintenance operator has followed up all comments made by the Norwegian team and the other aircraft will therefore also be maintained by Derco Aerospace Inc. The FLO review of the aeroplane also confirms that the FLO has a very good quality control, which ensures a high standard of maintenance and thus the flight safety of the defence aircraft. Finally, I would like to stress that although price conditions are important, they should never be at the expense of aviation safety. Air safety has first priority in the Defence. It has been and will be the governing force for all flight maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1542	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and especially for the conclusion, which we all agree with, namely that aviation safety must never be at the expense of price – of course. But when you read Defence Forum No. 3 this year, it says an article referring to a colonel – by name – who says: ‘We had the choice between plague or cholera, because the Air Force had little money. Either we were able to maintain one plane at Marshall's, or we sent two to Turkey with a calculated risk." Does the Council of State, assuming that the Defence Forum has understood correctly, and that the Supreme Court has said this, consider that air safety is the most important thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1554	At least I fully agree with the questioner that aviation safety is not being taken lightly. Therefore, I find it very reassuring when the Director of the FLO, Managing Director Erik Hernes, as late as March 11th in a letter to the Department, underlines the main points I gave in my reply: that it is normal that the main aircraft maintenance at Hercules takes place abroad, that an American company has been chosen here against normally an English – but with a subcontractor from Turkey – and that a very strict quality control of the company that was commissioned has been carried out, so that all errors that were pointed out were corrected before the FLO took over the aircraft. I think it confirms that the interest that both the questioner and I have in ensuring aviation safety has been followed up, and that is what is guiding the work of the FLO. I also take note of the FLO's Director's assurances about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1561	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, which supports the fact that it is by no means the most important. It says a little bit in that article that the Turkish workshop, which is a subcontractor for the US company, had problems with equipment, i.e., regulatory equipment to support the aircraft, that there were some language problems, and that there were some other problems along the way. But I hope and believe, of course, that this will solve itself. It's quality that's the most important thing here. When, as in this case, we have a plane that we don't get until the summer – it's delivered in August – then it's quite a long time to wait for an airplane to be prepared, when we know that we have relatively few Hercules planes. I think we have six, of which not all are in the air all the time because of shortcomings. Then you might ask the question, if you're allowed, if it's perhaps time for us to replace the type of aircraft we have here.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1575	In the last follow-up question, we are dealing with material investments in defence included in the defence long-term plan, which was discussed in June 2004. It is assumed that we will receive new transport aircraft by 2012. Of course, I underline the questioner's point, the need for us to actually get new transport planes by the end of 2012. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Turkish subcontracting company of the American company that has been used for the maintenance of these last two Hercules aircraft has shown great willingness and ability to adapt maintenance procedures on aeroplanes to Norwegian standards. I have also received insurance from the FLO that the Turks have taken the comments that came from the Norwegian side seriously. It also supports the decision that the FLO actually took to send down Norwegian personnel to follow up on the maintenance. As long as all the errors are fixed, I think we'll be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1586	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘According to an entry on Nordnytt on 4 March, the Defence Council is in spite of the decision of the Stortinget to lay the main base for the coastguard helicopters to Bardufoss. Erik Hernes of the Defence Logistics Organisation confirms in the entry that he has only been informed that the main base for maritime unit helicopters is to have the main location on the Sola. Why has the Council of State not followed up the decision of the Storting on the stationing of the 337 squadron?’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1595	On this issue too, there is reason to start with one of the premises in the question, namely that the Stortinget has adopted the 337-square location of Bardufoss. That's not right. The majority rejected in June a proposal from the Progress Party and two other parties to locate the 337 Quadron to Bardufoss. However, what the Biggest has adopted, and that is important – it was stated by a majority of the Defence Committee last spring in the Inner East. S. No 234 for 2003-2004 – was as follows: ‘The majority consider it important to exploit synergies for the management of the 330, 334 and 337 quadrants respectively. This has been adopted to the Sun. At the same time, a short distance from patrol area to base is important.’» The Commission therefore took the following decision: ‘The Government requests the location of the new North Coast Guard Unit Helicopters, when not on board a vessel or while maintaining a supplier, to Bardufoss. The government is asked to make concrete proposals in the context of the phase-in of the new unit helicopters. ‘... So this applies to the Coast Guard in the north, not the 337 Quadron as such. So I would like to add: As previously stated in a letter to the President of the Grand Duchy of 22 November 2004 and in letter of 14 February 2005, on questions from the representative of Korsberg, there is a design work for various solutions related to the phase-in of the unit helicopter, in order to achieve cost savings through joint maintenance, joint training and joint training for the entire military helicopter service, including Fregat, Coast Guard and Rescue Service, provided by Stortinget. The Armed Forces have confirmed that the ongoing work is carried out within the framework of the Storting decision. As mentioned in St.meld. No 4 for 2004-2005 and in those letters to the Stortinget, the Government will return to Stortinget with the case before the phase-in of the helicopters, in line with what the Stortinget has asked for. Storing had no comments on this in the treatment of Inst. S. No 127 for 2004-2005 to St.meld. No 4 for 2004-2005 as late as March 3rd this year. It is estimated that phase-in will start with the receipt of the first helicopter during 2006, and the Government will of course return to Stortinget with the matter before that.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1618	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I can see to the extent that the concept confusion the Council of State has in terms of the 337 squadron and the coastguard helicopters. But from Stortinget's point of view, it has been fairly clear that the 337-square has been discussed here. If the Council of State had bothered to read the position on the budget, where a majority of the committee, including the Workers' Party, is aware that the 337 Quadron is to be stationed on Bardufoss, I think the Council of State might also have seen the light on this matter. Now it's like we big-time representatives get a series of input from the Defense, because there's a lot of mess with the implementation of the decisions that Stortinget has made. Then I am made aware that the station manager of the 334 Quadron at the Sun has been commissioned to initiate the phase-in of the NH-90, the coast guard helicopters, a responsibility initially assigned to the FLO. Why isn't that responsibility added to Bardufoss, according to the decision on the bigotry?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1629	And here, too, I want to go back to the premises related to what is actually adopted. What was adopted during the treatment of Inst. S. No 342 for the 2000-2001 conversion of the Defence during this four-year period were as follows: ‘The 337 squadron shall be transferred to the Sola Air Station for the introduction of unit helicopters.’;» Then, last June, the following decision was taken, which I referred to in my previous reply: ‘The Government requests the location of the new North Coast Guard Unit Helicopters, when not on board a vessel or while maintaining a supplier, to Bardufoss. The government is asked to make concrete proposals in the context of the phase-in of the new unit helicopters. ‘... The proposal put forward by the Party of Presidents, SV and the Central Party in June last year was as follows: ‘The 337 squadron is located at Bardufoss’. That proposal was not adopted. This is important, because in the Committee's premise for the long-term plan from June last year, it is very clear that a hope is to exploit synergies by maintaining coastal watch helicopters, rescue services helicopters and frigate helicopters together. But we might as well have the base in Bardufoss, and I have all the intention to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1650	Thank you so much for your answer. The problem here is that I really don't get answers to the questions I've asked, neither the main question nor the follow-up question. The Council of State always refers to the decisions taken by the Stortinget and refers to what is in the setting. The problem is that what is in the suspension and the decisions taken by Stortinget are not followed up by the Defense itself. Then you have a problem. However, the Council of State should also take inwards that there is now a crystal-clear majority on the Stortinget that wants the 337-square to be located and operated from Bardufoss. Last night, the head of the Defence Committee, Marit Nybakk, was at Bardufoss and made it clear that the Workers' Party is in favour of the 337 Quadron being located and operated from Bardufoss – the same as the Progress Party has always intended, as well as the Center Party and the Left. How will the Council of State deal with the fact that there is now a crystal-clear majority on the Storting to locate the 337-square to, and drive it from, Bardufoss?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1661	Of course, I am interested in dealing with the decisions taken in Stortinget – it should be lacking. That is why it is also important – as the government has signalled in line with the wishes of the majority of the population – that we come back to Stortinget with a case of our own before we phase in these new helicopters, which is planned during 2006. It is also important to stress that the defence management has confirmed that the ongoing investigations carried out in the defence are carried out within the framework of the decision of the Stortinge, that the defence management is aware of the decisions taken and that a case is to be brought back to the Stortinge. There's no doubt about it! At the same time, it is important to stress the premise of the Committee on Civil Liberties, including the Workers' Party, that significant cost savings should be taken into account in the joint maintenance, training and training of the entire helicopter service of the Defence Agency, including both coastguard helicopters, rescue service helicopters and frigate helicopters. It is fully possible, in addition to the fact that we have the base and presence at Bardufoss when the Coast Guard North helicopters are not on board a ship.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1670	It tells the president that the last word has not been spoken in this case, but it will be another time. Question 19 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1687	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-16.ana.ud531e1698	There is no record.
