ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e116	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e127	The government has chosen not to present the usual long-term programme, and has replaced it with the innovation perspective notification. Basically, this is a good idea, not least when you look back at what the long-term programme has evolved to be. There was a more or less coherent estimation of the new programmes of the different batches for the forthcoming ageing period. That's why, from my point of view, it was related to expectations of the perspective message, not least because of the name choice. The government itself writes that the Communication points to some prerequisites for continued economic growth and possible steps towards a sustainable public sector. It is good that the notification discusses possible trajectories for the Norwegian economy until 2060. But that's what I think is a little strange: when the government first chooses to provide such a perspective message, it should also give clearer assessments of what is the most likely or the most desired policy. A government should have a sense of what it will do to achieve the overall objectives of the future. There are a number of unanswered questions in the message. Does the Government want to do anything to influence the assumptions made? There will be significant changes for economic development depending on the policies pursued to improve productivity growth, population development and employment, as well as the number of recipients of public transfers, working hours, participation in employment, etc. Most of us agree with the Government's main economic policy objectives, which are work for everyone, increased value creation, further development of the Norwegian welfare society, fair distribution and long-term sustainable development. But we have very different perceptions of how best to achieve these goals. The newly born alliance, the red-green option that they call themselves, has sought to show community in the setting by joining in a number of areas. What I have learned from reading these comments is that there is a long way between the concrete proposals and the targeted visions, which is sought obscured by word-rich but relatively inconclusive remarks. However, something seems clear: this alliance has a strong fear of competition and market-oriented solutions. Believe in the individual they definitely don't, and tax relief is now up to be the new term. Through this setting, we can establish that any red-green government will have an even larger public sector than we already have. I'll quote from a common note from these three batches: «Better and good welfare arrangements for all require a significant extent of a public sector.» No, good welfare arrangements require an economic policy that allows these welfare schemes to be financed. I'll quote further: ‘These members oppose the privatisation and commercialisation of public welfare services. In areas such as education, health and care, the development of private markets will undermine the possibilities for redistribution and to ensure all the same access to basic services according to their needs. At the same time, overall resource use in these sectors will increase, resulting in a lower social economy and increased bureaucracy. The result will also be discrimination based on financial capacity and/or place of residence.’;» This is a powerful diet, and it clearly shows the level we are now going to have in the debate on competition promotion in months to come. Today's system, which is well on the way, is the system which these parties want, has created a society of cows that is completely devoid of freedom of choice for each individual citizen. All experience shows that competition provides diversity, and when citizens can make real choices, show muscles through their behaviour in the different markets and set quality requirements, we also get quality and diversity that a unilateral public offer does not have the power to offer. There is little doubt that strong and competitive business is an important prerequisite for growth, although there is significant potential for improvement that needs to be exploited if the objectives of high, stable and sustainable growth are to be achieved. The government says that it will place the decisive emphasis on long-term economic policy and provide a stable framework for industrial activities. Of course, I fully agree with that. But it is also essential what the content of the policy has. These are the same assumptions underlying both the perspective message and the retirement message from the Government. Because several of these assumptions are almost a static presentation of today's situation, it obviously also leads to the tightening needs of the Government. And then there's reason to go back a little bit in history. During the period from 1958 to 1961, the then government expressed great concern because oil consumption in Norway increased. This would, of course, lead to a sharp increase in foreign exchange expenditure at a time when Norway did not believe that we had formidable oil and gas deposits in the North Sea. It's an illustration of how difficult it is to predict future developments. During the period 1966-69, the then government was committed to increasing the growth of the economy, and it would do so through significant capital imports to promote the rapid expansion of the country. So even without prospects for large oil and gas revenues, the politicians of the day had a strong will to further develop the welfare community, while today it is almost obvious that our wealth has become our biggest problem, which also ends up becoming a real obstacle to making important improvements in Norwegian society. Revenue from the oil industry should be invested much more where they provide the best return for the population of Norway. Investment in securities and shares abroad need not be passive. Investments in Norway in the form of infrastructure or intellectual property in the form of competences may provide a much better return in the form of high, stable and sustainable growth for Norway. The important thing is that policies support value-creating activities. The same government also wrote that at the end of the 1960s, the fishing industry was faced with a limited access to raw materials and that a growth in production had to be based primarily on better use of raw material access in the case of higher processing of products. But then came the farming industry! In other words, it is not reasonable to base future forecasts on not developing, not innovating or streamlining, and thus finding new revenue opportunities for the nation over time. Then this becomes more terrifying propaganda than the facts. When our politicians made the popular pension at the end of the 1960s, there were ambitions to give the citizens security. The politicians also said that they wanted an average pension for both single and married couples of about two thirds of the income from normal labour income. It then appears as a paradox that today, with our enormous wealth, we do not have the power to fulfill the assumptions and ambitions of that time. I'm not going to start a pension debate right now, but I find reason to stress that there are a wide range of areas that should have been streamlined and reformed before going into the pension system. One tenth of the working-age population is unsatisfied in Norway. There must be something fundamentally wrong in social security administration and in our general opinion about what ill-satisfied de facto should be, when we are in such a situation. There must be great potential for improvement here. But we can only take for information that there is a question that the government has pushed ahead of itself in the pension message. A real welfare reform, which the Government is in part in the process of doing, is important. But this should have led to a combination of both employment offices, social security offices and social services to so-called welfare offices, because it would provide a much simpler everyday life for individuals and, of course, a much simpler everyday life for employees who would be able to guide users to proper assistance and more targeted and effective assistance. Changes in employment policy could also have major consequences, regardless of policy choices. An increase in the number of annual works will result in increased value creation and tax revenue, while a reduction will, of course, produce opposite effects. More unemployed people in work result in increased value creation, savings in pension costs and increased tax revenue. Improving the participation of immigrants in work, moving from part-time to full-time work, reducing sick leave, etc. – all these are conditions that will improve the economic base and reduce financing challenges in the future. In addition, migration is a relationship that both Norway and other countries have met for all time. There is no new phenomenon that Norwegian business and social life have to change as driving forces outside official control. However, migration has also led to increased efficiency, creativity and better resource use. I agree with the Government that action is needed to improve the functioning of the economy and enable us better to meet future challenges. Both in research, education, health, social policy, tax policy, industrial policy, labour market policy, etc. there are great opportunities. However, all systems and legislation must be subject to a systematic and critical review where the main issue must be the extent to which we are able to achieve the objective of efficient resource use and increased competitiveness. An increase in the level of taxation in Norway is neither desirable nor fortunate for economic development. I record that the red-green alliance believes that there is no contrast between high taxes on one side and growth and prosperity on the other. I disagree. A high level of taxation reduces investment willingness, leads to commercial leakage and, in the worst cases, to labour migration. In addition, the job offer is being undermined. Norway now has all the opportunities to create a flat tax system, at lower rates than today, while offering good welfare schemes to its citizens. It is essentially based on our ability and willingness to focus money use in the public sector more effectively and to facilitate economic growth, but also through industrial policy and transport policy, to mention two important areas. It would also be significantly easier to carry out major reforms, such as tax reform, pension reform, or a reform to make the public sector more efficient, if we had a slightly longer horizon than a year, which today limits us through budgetary management. If we had allowed ourselves to have a four-year perspective to cover large and initially cost-intensive reforms, we would have been more concerned with dynamic tax policy effects than we are today, and we would be more eager to implement efficiency reforms in the public sector, because we could balance long-term proceeds. Finally, I have to point out a little curiosity. In the setting under Chapter 2.2, the Progress Party has a note on international developments that has been largely taken from Innst. S No 93 for 2004-2005, on a general development policy, by the Foreign Affairs Committee. The only difference is that, in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, this is a unanimous remark. Now that the same comment has been moved into a position by the Financial Committee, the Progress Party is all alone in its content. Then I want to end with a question: what does that say?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e187	The representative, Siv Jensen, said that the government should have had a sense of what policy it would pursue to meet the challenges that the communication draws up. I agree. But perhaps the Progress Party itself should do so, even if they believe that both oil revenues and productivity growth are underestimated. Then you can get some help to make the challenges a little smaller. But when the party prescribes tax relief as the main driver of growth, they should also be able to say straight away that in the future people will have to pay more of their own wallet to go to school and to get health care and care services. So Siv Jensen was in the joint comments from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. Then the question is whether it worries Siv Jensen that the Progress Party has not been able to write with the government parties on a single point, given that the Progress Party has the ambition to be the pooling force for a government option with a majority behind it on the civil side.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e196	Svein Roald Hansen now moved into an area that I think he takes and feels on every single day. You have to be very careful about throwing rocks in glasshouses. I think that a red-green government option would have been credible if it had been able to point out what kind of policy such a government would take in Norway, whether it be tax policy, health policy, education policy or energy policy, to mention something. Here there is a deep-kept secret, both for this hall and for the Norwegian people, what kind of policy such a possible majority government would lead. The only thing I've heard this government constellation talk about so far is the need for cooperation. And we can agree on that, but it's probably so important to clarify what kind of policy the parties want to pursue. At least we have seen both from the party of progress and from the parties of government in which direction they are going, I would point out that the direction is quite similar both to the parties of government and to the party of progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e203	The representative Jensen was at the outset concerned with the uncertainty of the assumptions in the perspective communication, and has previously expressed doubts about the saving needs in a long-term perspective. Forecasts are uncertain, and in my opinion, Siv Jensen itself confirms this if we look at the debate on the budget in 2003. Then she criticized the government parties for making a denunciation of tight budgets, and it was not lacking in doomsday prophecies. I think the fasitite is quite ready for most people. In 2005, we know that economic policy has worked, interest rates are low, Aetat track a total of 50 000 new jobs in the next few years, exchange rates are competitive, and the Norwegian economy is in a high economic cycle. Experience shows that budgetary policy and the proper use of oil money increased the growth capacity of business. This experience is the focus of government parties for future economic policies. So my question is: does the Progress Party still believe that tight budgets and caution in the use of oil revenues are not relevant to the growth capacity of Norwegian companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e214	It is not true that the government has led a tight fiscal policy. After all, the rule of action has been dead every year under this government. The rule of action is actually replaced by a new rule, namely that the proper use of oil money is the one that the Government believes is right at all times. You could say what you want about it, but the use of oil money under this government is considerably higher than the rule of action. And it's going well. The interest rate has fallen, and the exchange rate has stabilised. Of course, the Progress Party acknowledges that we have been budgetary partners for the 2005 budget and partners on previous occasions. We have said many times that many parts of the policy go in the right direction, while other parts of the policy go too slow. That is one of the reasons why we have called for more committed cooperation between the government parties and the Progress Party, because we believe that the Progress Party will be a significant driving force in such cooperation in order to advance the necessary reforms in order to make the economy more efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e221	The Progress Party shall have the honour to have co-ordinated with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre on the largest investment in kindergartens in modern times. This means that we have now received a completely different gift in the development phase, and the price has – not least – been reduced for the first time ever. Now I record that Siv Jensen has been leading the work on the Progress Party programme, but there is nothing about kindergarten policy. This means that we may have the same situation as we have had in many parts of the last few years, namely uncertainty about child care policy. The right has said that they want a rematch on the big bet we have made. They don't want the maximum price, and they still want the old system, which meant that toddlers didn't have kindergarten space. However, some important principles have been established in the kindergarten arrangement. I am interested to know if Siv Jensen intends to continue this work during the next big period. It's about non-discrimination between public and private, it's about max-price as a system, it's about sibling moderation, and it's not least that we have to have State incentives to continue to expand. We still have a good deal to do before we're in the big kindergarten deal. I am interested to know if Siv Jensen is still in the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e232	I understand that we have a slightly different perspective in the perspective debate, but we'd like to talk a little bit about kindergartens too. In its programme for the next period, the Progress Party has continued what is in our party programme for the current period, which has not at all prevented us from compromising with other parties in the Stortingen on the development of the kindergarten policy. I dare remind you that exactly the same attitude we had when the cash support was introduced a few years ago. It was not the lead model of the Progress Party either, but it was closer to our model than the alternative. I think maybe Djupedal should be a little bit careful about highlighting the batch programs as a guide. I have never seen that it has been in an SV programme that you want to provide tax incentives for corporate children's gardens, or that you are very concerned about non-public treatment of public and private kindergartens. But it's part of the kindergarten agreement, even though it's not in SV's party program either.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e246	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e250	Previous governments have presented comprehensive long-term programmes with proposals for bets and reforms in a number of areas. Today, Stortinget deals with the document that the current government has called the Perspective Communication, where possible directions of development for the Norwegian community are outlined for decades to come, but where the political efforts are absent. Of course, you can wonder why the government has chosen such a model. Perhaps it was too difficult for government parties to gather about a clear and clear course ahead? The growth in the Norwegian economy is good. With high income growth and low interest rates, private consumption and housing investment are stimulated. When government parties, now indicated by the Right, are in favour of further large tax concessions, this will stimulate an even greater increase in private consumption, while the space for public consumption and investment is limited. The forecast in the Communication indicates that the average growth in private final consumption expenditure and housing investment is 3.1 pst. until 2010, while the corresponding public demand figure is 1.4 pst. In our view, such an imbalance in growth is not desirable, and the Workers' Party therefore believes it is wrong to stimulate this development through further tax relief. The analyses in the Perspectives Communication suggest that if economic growth continues, consumption and output will per capita. the population is significantly higher in 2060 than today. However, the key to societal development is how we choose to use the increased resources and opportunities that the Norwegian society will have in the future. The Labour Party believes that the increased opportunities need to be used to strengthen value creation and employment in all parts of the country, and to strengthen the capacity of society to ensure access to all good welfare schemes, such as education, childcare, care and health. Then we create a fair, safe and productive society, because it facilitates the active participation of all in the creation of value added, and we can avoid the situation that the analyses point to, with a strong underfunding of the common tasks in the future. In the perspective notification setting, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have signed up in a number of areas. The three parties agree that a new course is needed, a new policy in Norway. The three parties agree that the objective of policy is a fair society with work for all, with equal opportunities for education and health care and safety when needed. We believe that this can best be achieved by strengthening the community and the community's ability to solve key welfare tasks. The labour force in Norway is our most important national resource. It is 85 pst. of national wealth. A major and important political challenge for Norway in the future is how best to stimulate increased labour input. Today, too many people experience working life as being increasingly tough, and those with reduced working capacity are at risk of being pushed out. Under the current government, as many as 100,000 more have been permanently pushed out of the ordinary labour market. In our view, there is a need for a completely different investment in an inclusive working life, and a good senior policy will be crucial if we are to manage to mobilise the labour resources that the future will need. In a number of areas and sectors of society, there will in a few decades actually be a pressing need for labour. The government underestimates the value of an inclusive working life. In my opinion, they also underestimate the positive contribution to the labour market made by good employee rights. We want to maintain employees' rights in the health insurance system, and we oppose increased access to temporary employment. These are both areas where the current government wants to undermine important employee rights. In the joint comments, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre enter in order to intensify the fight against unemployment. This will be done both through a more active industrial policy and through a more active labour market policy. It is clear from our joint remarks that we will also introduce a youth guarantee to ensure that all under 25 years of age are entitled to work, education or labour market measures. I would like to stress that long-term investment in research and education is essential to ensure the basis for Norwegian value creation and prosperity development. This is not what the previous speaker pointed out, that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are only concerned with the extent of the public sector. On the contrary, we are also very concerned about how to stimulate value creation and thereby strengthen the basis for well-being. We need to increase research efforts in Norway, and we need to do so at least at OECD level. We need to increase support for industrial development through Innovation Norway, SIVA and regional development funds. The state must dare to be an active contributor to this. International comparisons show that countries such as the Nordic countries, with relatively high levels of taxation and good welfare arrangements, also do well in terms of productivity, growth and employment. There is therefore no contradiction, as it sounds, especially when we heard previous speeches, between having a relatively high level of taxation — and through the well-funded welfare systems — and a well-functioning business. In fact, in relation to our neighbouring countries, the Norwegian tax level is also competitive. This was last presented in the Evening Post on Sunday, where reference was made to an OECD study on the level of taxation in different European countries. Today, municipalities are responsible for a great deal of welfare production in this country. Today, most municipalities are struggling with too low incomes in relation to the tasks assigned to them. It is therefore important to recognise that good quality in school and good care for the elderly cost. So we want to go in order for the free income of municipalities to increase, and we want to draw up a comprehensive plan to correct the financial imbalance that exists today in Kommune-Norway. Health and hospital needs are undoubtedly increasing in the coming years. It is linked to both population development and medical development, which continue to provide new treatment opportunities. We believe that Norway should be able to afford a healthcare system that ensures all treatment of good quality and without a long waiting period. We also believe that the hospital service should be decentralised and that food and emergency services should not be closed for financial reasons. So we don't want an economic governance of the healthcare system that forces structural changes and hospital closures that we wouldn't otherwise be in favour of. Hospitals need to be provided with a financial framework to enable them to achieve the political objectives that we set for our healthcare system. The perspective message, which we are dealing with today, has become in many ways like a jump where we have a great run, but then there's no hope. So there was an abrupt stop on the jump edge. Or we can also say it this way: these are perspectives where the policy is lacking. The government has outlined perspectives for potential development pathways in the future, but has not presented its solutions, its political answers, to the Storting – in addition to what, in my opinion, also characterises this message: it creates the impression that the future is getting heavy and difficult, and it is suggested that new tax reliefs, more privatisation and more self-payment are necessary ways forward. When the Government promotes such a document for the Grand Duchy, it should also have given clear political answers and clear political priorities for the future, but it is therefore more or less absent. The Labour Party, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, has shown how we will use some of the opportunities that the Norwegian society will face in the future. Growth opportunities in the economy must ensure value creation and employment throughout the country, and it must contribute to strengthening Community solutions, not weakening them, as the current government actually contributes to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e297	During this ageing period, most people have gained greater security for their jobs and homes. Unemployment is falling, new jobs are created, and growth is strong. I note that the three parties in the socialist alternative are calling for a different course. Otherwise, the three parties in the socialist option in the setting have written together about a series of naturalities, while each one goes his own way in central areas, and especially the areas covered by this message. I mention the pension reform, the need to implement the tax reform, the attitude to the EEA and the WTO, but also the very basis of economic policy, linked to the rule of action and to monetary policy. I note that the Workers' Party has largely joined both the monetary policy and the rules of action and the practice of this, while the Socialist Party and the Centre disagree with the two anchor parties of economic policy or the practice of these. Does Hill-Marta Solberg think that's okay, because she expects the SV and the Central Party to follow the Labour Party, or is the Labour Party prepared to compromise on monetary policy and the rule of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e306	I note again that representatives of the government parties are very good at pointing out that most things are going well here in the country. A lot is going well – we totally admit it – and it's great. On the other hand, I think it is bad that the government parties systematically fail and sub-communicate and almost never take in their mouths the fact that in some areas things are not going so well at all. We have 100,000 more people who are outcast by our workforce in this magnification period. It's a serious and negative trend, which has to be swindled, not least when we look at the perspectives ahead. The need for labour will be very strong and increasing in the years to come. Then I have to say that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV do not differ from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in terms of disagreement in a number of areas of policy. It is very easy to sketch out a long list of areas where government parties disagree. They are about the European Union. They're it about taxes. The right has now promised NOK 23 billion in new tax reliefs next year. It obviously thinks the Christian People's Party is mostly made. We go to the elections on our policy, and then the voters will decide whether we will have a basis to negotiate a government platform after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e317	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg is very busy claiming that there is no link between taxile and economic growth. There are many, in addition to the Progress Party, who are strongly disunited in. Statistical central agency has also made calculations that show that lower taxes increase economic growth. Examples from the rest of the world, including: Ireland, shows that after lowering the tax level to a significantly lower level, they had a new start-up, economic growth, higher employment, better living standards and better purchasing power for most people. My question to Solberg's representative is: When the Labour Party now rejects the relationship between tax and economic growth, does Solberg's representative believe that the recognised State body Statistical Central Bureau is also wrong when they demonstrate this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e324	I think there's a much smaller difference between the Workers' Party and the Statistical Central Bureau on how we judge the effects of the tax than there is between us and the Progress Party on how we look at the tax policy and how it works. Unlike the Progress Party, the Labour Party is very concerned about the relationship between the level of welfare we have in society and the level of taxation we have. Of course, it is important that we have a competitive level of taxation – it is also for the Workers’ Party. But it is our claim, which is also actually documented, that we have a competitive tax policy in Norway. We have a productive business. We have growth in business today. We actually have growth in employment. It's not like we're now thinning business with taxes. But the taxes we have are helping to finance the common fund that will once again fund our common welfare schemes. They are also concerned about the Workers' Party. This context is what we underline.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e343	It is interesting to hear that the representative Hill-Marta Solberg justifies the absence of consensus between the three socialist parties that also the Right and Christian People's Party have a slightly different stand. But there is a significant difference between disagreeing on some extra billions in tax relief or in other areas, and fundamentally disagreeing on some of the key policy areas. In the case of the pension reform, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party disagree. As far as tax reform is concerned, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left also have different positions. With regard to the very basis of economic policy, the Labour Party and the other two socialist parties also disagree. It is also apparent from the setting that the Central Party has a different view of the rule of action than that of the Workers' Party. It appears that the Socialist Left has a different view of the practice of monetary policy than that of the Labour Party. My question is whether the Labour Party is prepared to compromise with the other two parties in the socialist alternative on the very foundation of economic policy, monetary policy and the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e352	The Governing Government and the Right intend to rely on the support of the Advance Party for a new growth period. I believe that is where we are faced with the greatest differences in the view of economic policy, i.e. between the Progress Party and most of the other parties here in the Chamber. There are really big differences in the view of economic policy. Then it must also be said that the government that sits today has used economic policy as a kind of strike. It has, as far as I can judge, set Norway's record in money use. I think it has increased from NOK 1.5 billion in the last budget of the Labour Party when it came to the use of oil money, to today between NOK 70 and 80 billion. So here the sitting government has used the regime we have as a rubber band. Despite the persistent efforts of the representative, Mr Sanner, I do not think he should be able to create any uncertainty as to whether the Labour Party in the government position will ensure and support a responsible economic policy. We've always done that. We've proved that for decades, and we're going to show that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e361	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e366	The Perspective Communication discusses the possible trajectory of the Norwegian economy towards 2060 and the main challenges for society in the future. The perspective message is not a dark reading, for Norway is a rich country with good opportunities for continued growth in private and public welfare. The Communication shows that the welfare of the future depends on long-term political action, and is an important political precursor in an otherwise rather taboo political debate. Public expenditure will increase sharply from 2015 to 2020. Although there is uncertainty in the forecasts, there is little doubt that pension costs and care costs will increase. This is due to demographic changes observed already today. It is therefore necessary to have an economic policy that takes account of these challenges. Government parties will stress that the growth capacity of the mainland economy is a key challenge. Over the major period, the government has pursued an economic policy that ensures and creates new jobs and provides the basis for a robust business life. Developments in 2004 and 2005, with strong growth in enterprises, export records, increasing employment and entry into service, show that policy has worked. Developments show that responsible budgetary policies combined with moderate tax reductions contribute to growth capacity. This policy will continue with the parties of government. The government parties refer in the perspective Communication to the implementation of the tax reform, with the removal of the divisional model, the lower marginal tax on labour and the removal of the property tax. There is little doubt that the promises of increased taxes on the left, in particular the increase and continuation of the strange wealth tax, will limit the growth capacity of businesses. I had this week with the NHO the pleasure of meeting former potter Magnus Stangeland, who is the owner of Bergen Yards. It makes the impression when people take risks, invest in traditional industries and create new jobs, but are punished by the taxes on wealth. Property taxes must be paid whether or not the enterprise pays dividends. No account is taken of profits or losses, nor of the capital requirements of the enterprise. I think there is a lack of interest in value creation when the left-hand side proposes to increase the wealth tax, while the shareholder model is introduced. In the perspective Communication, the growth of pension expenditure is an important topic. In the pension notification, the Government has presented one of today’s most important welfare reforms. The pension system must be economically sustainable, it must stimulate work, and there must be consistency between what the individual pays and what the individual gets out again. The reform is about self-pension security, the tax burden on future workers and the ability to finance other public services. This is central to solidarity between generations. The analyses in the Perspective Communication show that the ability to develop and implement new technologies, new products and new forms of organisation is important for growth. The same applies to the ability to convert and to improve efficiency in the public sector. The Co-operation Board attaches great importance to reforms that improve productivity. Quality reform and other reforms at school and in the education system are part of this. The same applies to public sector reforms, both in the state and in the municipal sector. The government has also notified a notice of research. The Communication sets out these reforms as a whole and illustrates why the reforms are important for the future level of well-being. The parties behind the socialist government option have signed up in some notes in the option. A few weeks ago, a joint press release entitled ‘Common policies in key areas’ was issued. Therefore, it is a little strange to note that the red-green option has scarcely gathered on some of the key principles of economic policy. On the contrary, the Labour Party stands alone to refer to the rules of action for the use of oil revenues. The Socialist Left does not even agree with the observation that there is a need for pension reform, and the Centre Party is united with the Progress Party on increasing the use of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy, both for ownership of the companies and for public investment. The central party will have a change of fiscal policy and a thorough evaluation of monetary policy. The Socialist Left will postpone oil investment. In the section on globalisation there is agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party, while the SV and the Centre go in different directions. The left-hand side says almost nothing about tax reform, but instead launches more greener taxes, whatever that means. Lack of consensus on the broad lines of economic policy testifies to anything but a common policy in important areas. It is easy to agree on a list of expenditure to be increased – and I am sure that the Central Party’s national meeting came up with even more such proposals. But the perspective communication is about sustainability in the governance of the economy, and it is strange that a new government option does not have a common policy in such fundamental areas. The Perspective Communication shows that Norway will continue to grow in welfare and value creation, but that it is important to manage its resources in a responsible way over generations. The government has achieved good results for the Norwegian economy in recent years. The government’s reform work points forward for many years and will be an important contribution to increasing the sustainability of well-being in a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e398	The representative, Torbjørn Hansen, points to the challenge of funding social welfare schemes, and the message also points out that the public sector, by continuing today's tax level gradually, can have a significantly out of date financing needs. So in this situation, the government and the majority of the Stortinget have given 23 billion dollars in taxes. The right-hand side signals an additional 23 million. kr in the coming period. At the same time, oil money has increased from DKK 1 billion in 2001 to DKK 75 billion in 2005, but that is what Torbjørn Hansen now calls a tight economic policy. The message also describes that, in order to use a worn-out expression, “right-west”, at least developers are moving from a balance sheet in 2001 to a balance sheet of DKK 70 to 100 billion in 2004-2005, and even worse for years to come. The challenge will then be to finance the welfare society in the future, and I will ask the representative Torbjørn Hansen if an additional tax haven is the right tool in this way. The second thing I want to challenge the representative Hansen to say is how one has thought that the Petroleum Fund could be used as a future pension fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e409	The President must remind us that the time for the change in line is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e412	First, I would like to point out that I find it strange that the Workers' Party criticises these tax concessions that have been granted in relation to the generational and budgetary accounts, when they have at the same time used the same space of action for increased expenditure in the public sector. There has not been any party in the Stortinget that has wanted to have a tighter budgetary policy than the government has led. However, with regard to prioritising tax reductions, there is no doubt that there is a correlation between the level of taxation and the growth capacity of the economy, as I mentioned in my introduction. We have pointed out that it is important to facilitate increased labour input and that marginal labour tax is important. And it's important to create a competitive business, where the wealth tax is important. Looking at the growth that has been in Norway in recent years, compared to the situation that was in 2001 when Stoltenberg went off, after NOK 12 billion in tax growth, growth has been very good. There is little doubt that there is a link between economic growth and the level of taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e421	Torbjørn Hansen said in his statement that the evidence of a lack of interest in value creation, when the red-green parties are in favour of both dividend taxes and property taxes. Of course, I fully agree with that. But how can Torbjørn Hansen defend what the government and the government parties themselves have done, namely, introduce dividends tax without exploiting the majority in the current peak period, in order to actually abolish the wealth tax while there is certainly what kind of political majority we have? My next question is whether Torbjørn Hansen can simply tell me what the government parties put in the notes they have written for the perspective message, when they write that they still want to work actively to modernise the public sector. So far I haven't recorded at least a lot of active work to modernise the public sector from this government. I would like to think of what Torbjørn Hansen thinks will be an active work for the modernisation of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e428	I also mentioned the importance of a responsible economic policy in my introduction. There is also some background to the need to phase in the tax reform over several years. It is not right, as the representative Siv Jensen says, that we have introduced a shareholder model until we have done something about the property tax. We reduced the property tax by half a billion dollars in 2005, and we're adding to reducing the property tax while introducing the shareholder model. It is a method of changing the tax system that brings it into line with international legislation and improves the competitiveness of business. I think that if you had done it the other way, as the Progress Party wants, by combining increased public expenditure with heavy tax cuts, you would have a situation in the Norwegian economy with which business would not have been particularly useful, namely overheating, where the framework conditions would be too bad. With regard to the modernisation of the public sector, it is a long canvas, but it is clear that measures such as the launching of competition and what we have done in the field of transport in order to get more money back are at the heart of this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e437	Both in posts and in notes, the right has talked a lot about its favorite theme, the relationship between tax relief and growth capacity. It should be believed that if the reasoning on the absolute correlation between low tax and high productivity was correct, we should have lists in Europe of countries at the bottom of the tax lists and at the top of the productivity growth table. But it's not like that. Since the World Economic Forum, which, to say the least, is far from being a socialist think tank, recently identified as the most productive economies in the world, were four of the top six Nordic countries, with a strongly developed welfare state and a relatively high tax level. What is it that the World Economic Forum has not understood that the Right has understood, about the relationship between productivity and tax levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e442	Now I have not read the analysis to which the representative Lysbaken referred. In general, of course, it is true that there is a link between the scope of welfare services and economic growth, by thus also stimulating work in society. There's reason to refer to some examples. Among other things, Ireland implemented a tax incentive policy to attract new businesses, which gave good results and which the Finance Committee was given the opportunity to see when we were on our way to Ireland. We can also say that the situation after 2001, when Norway had implemented tax incentives, shows that it may not have been very reasonable when we see how the business situation went in the same direction. We can also say that developments in Norway versus Sweden, where we have reduced taxes during the period and also achieved better results than they have in Sweden, can point in the same direction. But, of course, it is difficult to compare nations that have different policies in different areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e453	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e456	Let me say in the extension of the last line chord shift that it's because this perspective message doesn't take much into account. It has a very one-sided perspective on what the future can bring, and on how to create growth and prosperity in this country. A lot of empirical evidence shows that the relationship between what the Right says in the answer, and what the actual situation is, is not like that. Large parts of Western Europe and not least the Scandinavian countries are very good examples of good societies not being built on unilateral tax relief and one-sided business stimulation, but on the fact that public and business are a sprawl layer that builds good communities together. The study carried out by the World Economic Forum clearly shows that the Scandinavian countries are also successful in economic terms. They are safe welfare societies that have joint financing of large parts of what is otherwise a burden on business – just take American car production as an example. In the United States, each company has to pay for unemployment benefits and pensions. This means that for each car that rolls out of General Motors or Ford Motors, you pay approx. $5,000 at cost. This is co-financed in a country like Japan, which has a common system. Of course, it is also co-financed in parts of European countries. This means that this is a cost spread across many more than the employer alone, as it is in many of the examples for the right-hand side in Norway. It is this perspective that is totally lacking in the perspective communication. That means we have a perspective message without perspective – or we have a traditional perspective on the Right, that we really can't afford anything. Over all years, the right has distinguished itself by being the largest block of brakes in all possible developments. With every conceivable development strategy, the Right says that we really can't afford this. The full perspective statement shows that what we can afford is tax relief. Everything else we can't afford. This perspective means that the statement of perspective as a political document is quite uninteresting and more is to be seen as a campaign writing for the Right than as a campaign writing for Norway. From our point of view, we have chosen to focus on what we think is interesting in the future. What we have also done is that, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, we have pointed to important challenges for our society in the future that we will address in a new government. That means that in many ways we are at a crossroads at the autumn elections, because there are two very clear alternatives. The right in the perspective message has drawn up what they think is the future, which the Christian People's Party and the Left obviously agree, and which insists that there are little options for action in the future. Much of this is that we prescribe public expenditure in such a way that we do not have any action options at all. Strangely enough, we can afford tax relief, but we can't afford expenditure, it's one of the great paradoxes of the Right, which they have very difficult to explain. But that's going to be the problem of the right-hand side. What is at the same time stated is that 50 years in advance we will have about twice as high living standards as today. This means that if economic growth is projected, it should be twice as large in the private sector as in the public sector. Today, we see a lack of coherence between the quality available, for example. in the classroom, or the quality that exists in many of the public services, and what we can afford financially, or the wealth that the state possesses. This contrast gets bigger, and the right wants it to be larger. This will mean that very many people will force private alternatives because the public will no longer be able to finance good Community solutions, as we have been able to do over the years. This is probably the main picture drawn in the perspective message, namely the one-sided response of the right-hand side with tax relief and privatisation, while there is a red-green option that shows action options ahead, which is about well-being, value creation and development, and which is not least marked by a much greater degree of optimism for the future than the government, which is marked by pessimism, and where there is no scope for action. It's also interesting, if you look at the historical evolution of why Scandinavian societies are like they are, that this is exactly where the great recipe for success lies. And that's exactly in this big success recipe Right puts in its main thrust that the public sector must not grow any more. If you take the example of retirement and American car industry, you can look at what is actually the great competitive advantage of Norwegian business. The high competitive advantage of Norwegian business is mainly based on raw materials and high levels of productivity. Throughout the 1990s, we have had higher productivity than all our trading partners, including the United States. This means that we have invested in smart machines, smart equipment, which makes Norwegian business internationally appear to be innovative and competitive. We have e.g. a very large advantage compared to Sweden, which has a large degree of technological industry, which is subject to a completely different level of competition from the Norwegian industry. We are now able to sell our raw materials at a very high price and get bought back cheap finished goods at a much lower price. It means that we are right now in an entirely historical boom, which for the Norwegian economy is very good. But it's this model that you look at public and private together, that right-wing attacks. This means that it is not given that there will be particularly great value creation, as the representative of the Right here says, if one focuses unilaterally on tax relief and privatisation as an instrument of economic policy. On the contrary, the highest competitive advantage of Norwegian industry, namely a good public sector bearing a large part of the cost of business, would be one of the biggest competitive advantages of a productive and innovative business. And this is the World Economic Forum, to which the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken referred, has understood. It is interesting to see that these outstanding economic environments, which in many respects are so politically distant from SV, have actually understood the context of a society. So this is where the big roadblock goes. Because we're talking about communities. We're talking about building societies together, while the Right is talking about business being kind of a bit there, and then the public sector is a bit there, and there should be the least possible interaction. The lowest possible tax and privatisation is the answer. But that's this contrast we're now facing at the autumn elections. Building good communities is a splinter layer, a platitude, that's something we do together. The business community contributes and will contribute, they will also get something left, and that's this model we want to defend. It is also interesting to see that representatives of the three government parties spend a lot of time saying that the red-greens don't have an alternative. No, that's right, we're not going to go to the elections on a common policy. We have pointed out in this programme some of the important areas in which we have agreed on this process. And there are a lot of key policy development fields that we agree on. Just take the whole piece of research, the piece of education, that we're going to take a rematch on these tightenings that will come about in terms of labour law. We do not want to cut sick pay – there are many important developments that we want to defend. But if you look back at what this government actually did, the Christian People's Party went to the elections on a central government, which was nothing of it. Right, what did they go to elections on? Well, it was a pure Right-Registration without cooperation with anyone else than maybe those who happened to join. Did they have a common program? No, no, no. Do the common applications have before this choice? No, no, no. Now they've been in government for four years, and they don't even have a common program for the election they want to win. A representative from the Right was asked the last day if it was such that the Right really did not seriously mean with this proposal that there should be wine in the shops, in which the Christian People's Party is furiously disagreed. The representative admitted that this was so-called paper wine, as it said in the article, because it was not meant to be serious. This clearly shows that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left are cracking in all directions in important questions, and are using the opportunity to attack a red-green alternative, which is in the maturation phase to become a powerful alternative, and it is already. I understand that the right-hand side fears this, because there is a completely different forward-looking policy here than the government parties have. It is also interesting to see that Right-wing representatives are attacking the red-green option for EU vision, while they themselves are furiously disagreeing on the same issue. I registered so late as in a debate yesterday in a TV channel that there were representatives of the Government and there was an outrageous disagreement on this issue. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party rejected in cash that this was on the agenda, while the Right's leader said the opposite. That means those on the right-hand side who think they score points for this, they're wrong. The right-hand side and the Government have major difficulties in agreeing on important developments in the future. What's interesting is that for the first time in many years, we're facing a choice of values and a choice of a completely different character than what we've had before. In fact, the voters have a choice: to invest more in community, more in security, more in future, more in an up-to-date business, towards the right, which is the privatisation of the welfare state and more outsourcing, and tax relief is the answer to future challenges. It's also interesting to see that the Right has gone to the election of NOK 23 billion, while Bondevik says that it should not be more than NOK 10 billion, so that's where the Right has already given away NOK 13 billion before you start the negotiations after the election. It shows with all possible clarity how deep the disagreement is on the civil side, and it shows with all possible clarity what an exciting choice the voters are now actually facing. The choice is between community and privatisation, and then I'm very happy that our party represents the centre of gravity of those who want to share.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e490	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e493	The representative Djupedal used most of his intervention to explain to us that there is no link between economic growth and the future welfare society. In the setting for the perspective announcement, the government parties and the Workers' Party are united on the most central note of the setting, where it is said that the pillar of continued welfare development in Norway as we want it to be remains economic growth. No party is more concerned with the welfare development of the future and with increasing public expenditure than the Socialist Left, and this is described in the setting with a broad pen. However, it has not been possible to associate itself with economic growth as a basis for well-being, and even oil and gas extraction should be reduced. And then the question is asked to the representative of Djupedal: what are his party's alternative instruments of continued welfare development, and how will the Workers' Party be involved in that idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e499	I can reassure the representative Fleet that SV is for economic growth, and we are for a large private business, which is an important part of our society. How to generate economic growth, how to generate progress, and how to generate optimism, is a combination of many things. The right focus in this setting has been monomant and, at my discretion, not very exciting and also not very interesting, because it takes up only one factor, namely the tax, and how important taxes are for growth and value creation. The perspective that we very clearly maintain is that there are many other aspects in this that are at least equally important. That's why we're not involved in this comment, which we see as very monoman in the approximation. But economic growth and distribution are two infinitely important components of a good society. The distribution perspective is at least equally important for us, because a good innovative business life and a productive future also mean emphasising distribution, how to distribute the values created. This perspective is totally absent from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e506	In one of the notes in this setting, SV determines the following: ‘We need to take care of and develop industries where Norway has special assumptions.’ This we thought is a very positive and very sensible formulation. Norwegian shipping is one of the industries in which Norway has ‘special assumptions’. Norwegian shipping has been a valuable currency for Norway for several hundred years, and if we set the framework conditions, Norwegian shipping can continue to sail in to Norway. My question to the representative, Mr Djupedal is as follows: does this positive and very forward-looking comment mean that SV is now in favour of Norwegian shipping and Norwegian seafarers having internationally competitive framework conditions? Or is this remark just meant as a floss?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e518	First, I guess I have to say that the perspective that shipping is important because it sails in currency, maybe it was right at some point in Norwegian history. I guess that's not the most important shipping thing today. We have an abundance of capital, so that's not exactly what makes shipping important. But we agree that shipping in Norway is important. Shipping must contribute in the same way as everyone else in the fissure layer of a good society. That means we haven't agreed to special arrangements for shipping companies. There is not that industry in Norway that cannot say with a high degree of certainty that we are exposed to competition from other countries that have different and better framework conditions than we do. It's all we have of the process industry, it's all we have of the competitive industry. Some country or countries have lower pay or better conditions. This doesn't create any good business. Let me put it this way: operating with tax dumping or subsidies will not help Norwegian shipping industry to become better or more loyal to Norway. They have been relieved, they have received everything they have pointed out. The shipping industry has been closest to a candy store and pointed out that they want it and that and that. And they've got it! Nevertheless, many of the large companies have unfortunately moved out, rather than contributing to value creation and growth in Norway, as we would have liked them to have done. And they have the economy to be here too – they don't have any turbulent relationships in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e525	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e528	It's said that aftertime is the most exact form of science. The purpose of this message is to reduce the need for this type of science. That's what we do. by providing a good basis for discussions on important policy areas. The main focus of this message is to discuss fundamental developments in the economy and to focus on measures to meet these developments. Looking forward in time is not easy, at least not in as long a perspective as 50 years. We still know a good deal about important factors in the economy. We know with reasonable certainty how many 50-year-olds there are in 2050. Furthermore, we know how many people are 80 years old in 2050. We also know something about the composition of the 20, 30 and 50 generations ahead of time. And we know something about the relationship between those who are at work and those who are not. When this labour force is the nation's most important resource, we know quite a lot about the future. The notification clearly indicates that the mainland economy is the most important part of the Norwegian economy. This means that the organisation of a good and competitive non-petroleum industry is crucial for future growth and development. The notification also clearly shows that labour is the most important resource in the economy. Making sure that as much work as possible and less passive services are available are also important factors for the economic development that we want here in the country – and for the individual. Similarly, the message shows that it is important to have a well qualified workforce, a capacity for conversion and a high level of productivity to ensure growth gains in the economy. These are important factors, which the Government has built its policies around. The tax reform is in the process of being implemented. It will provide a fairer tax system and will stimulate further innovation and with it also for a wider range of jobs. Proposals for a pension reform have been made which will increase the security of pensions and the intergenerational distribution. A strong focus is placed on research and development and on a challenge system to ensure high and timely competence in the future. The government's policy line is also demonstrated by targeted efforts to avoid a sorting society, by improving conditions for voluntary teams and organisations, by a targeted and conscious environmental and energy policy and by a holistic development policy to reduce poverty and promote human rights. In the message we are presented for three different development paths - a so-called youth option, an ageing option, and a so-called reference path. These options show how important developments in the population and the supply of work will be to economic development. In other words, the message shows the gap between needs and possibilities to meet these needs in a good way for all generations. Good family policies are also good social economy. By putting secure frameworks around children and parents, we also make it easier to maintain a good welfare society for the next 50 years. Some have focused on the fact that there are many uncertain elements in such a message. Pessimistic outlook can be a tempting label to stick to others. Such characteristics are rather expressive of having to take the consequence that future growth may not reach unanalysed heights, and that prioritisation is not just an exercise for gloomy, over-reliable politicians with strongly developed, life-threatening features. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that "reliable development" is a pervasive principle of this message. Through some evaluations of future developments, we shall be able to pursue a stable and safe policy, without the sudden upheavals that are the basis for the development to be so much worse than we had foreseen. And finally, should developments in the future become better and more positive than what is laid down in the message, we in the Christian People's Party are entirely confident that it will not be a heavy task to tackle such a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e551	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e554	At least no one should be able to say that the representative Sørfonn has not read the perspective message. We got a new review of what it said, now, and the knowledge is important to bring it with us when it comes to driving the policy. Then my question is: what kind of policy is the Christian People's Party going to use this possibility for which Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn is talking about? When he says that welfare is important, I believe that it is important for schools, health care, because one should be able to exploit the possibilities that we have created in this country. Has Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn agreed with the Right that there is room to spend over 20 billion dollars – 23 billion dollars – in treasures? He doesn't need to talk about what he's going to do by 2050, but I'd like to know what the representative Sørfonn will do next year if you're going to be able to keep up all these welfare services and at the same time give 23 billion dollars in taxes for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e559	I'm glad I got praiseworthy words from the representative of Frøiland for public information, and public information is our fans of. Now it is that the purpose of this message is not, in fact, to make concrete proposals for policy, but to analyse the future space for action, so I believe I am on a reasonably safe basis. So the question was how we see developments in the future, especially in tax. We're implementing a tax return, and an important element of that tax return is to terminate the sharing model and introduce the so-called shareholder model. To bring him in, we want to do something about the property tax at the same time, and we have been quite concrete about halving him in two years, with a view to a full liquidation. So we're being criticized for giving large tax credits. But the question back is, what was the Workers' Party in? Was it the liquidation of the investment fee? Was it the house tax? Was there any improvement in the depreciation rules? Or was it that the air passenger charges were gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e566	What could influence the choice of solutions to achieve many important policy objectives in the future is what kind of political majority will be in the Great Things after the fall elections. It is well obvious that the party of government in office should be able to continue in government, they are totally dependent on cooperation with the party of progress. So far in this period, the government and government parties have underlined the flexibility they have through a case-by-case cooperation between all parties in the Stortinget. But this possibility will obviously be weakened when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will appear as a community after the election. How does the Christian People’s Party view cooperation with the Advancement Party in the coming years? Is there going to be more committed cooperation, or is there going to be a cooperation that occurs only when it suits the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e571	We have in the governments that the Christian People's Party has been in in the last few years, the two Bondevik governments, in many things and in a good deal of budget, had concrete agreements with the Progress Party. The first government led by Bondevik was probably the first government to enter into such a binding agreement with the Progress Party. It's our intention to continue, to cooperate where there's a deal about politics. We are looking at the times when it is possible to find compromise and conciliation, and it is primarily the concrete policy designed through negotiations that form the basis for the way in which one should cooperate in the future. So we think that with the practice we've had, it's also very good to draw the lines forward when it comes to how we see a future collaboration with the Progress Party as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e576	One of the paradoxes in the perspective Communication is that the same Communication stresses that there will be difficult conditions for public funding in the coming years. Problems will arise in relation to the financing of the welfare country. At the same time, the need for tax relief is underlined, which will, of course, further weaken the funding base for public welfare. Then it's natural to continue where the representative Frøiland left off. For the question was not what Ingebrigt Sørfonn thought about the tax reliefs that were given in this period – they have voted in favour of the Christian People's Party, and it would be much to ask Sørfonn to distance them now – but what many are interested in knowing is how the Christian People's Party stands up to the Right's promise of 23 billion new billion in tax letters, whether there is anything we can expect that the Christian People's Party will stand behind in the coming period. In this case, the Christian People's Party will further contribute to exacerbating the financing problems that the Government itself has described in the Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e582	One of the greatest challenges we have, and which is also reflected in the perspective communication, is precisely what the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken mentions, which is a future under-funding in public finances. To let go of the sudden changes later, we are in the process of doing different things, both when it comes to pension reform and in other ways. The focus on tax relief was, as I understand it, an essential element in the question of Bjørlo Lysbakken, and, as I tried to say in my reply to the representative of Frøiland, one cannot disentangle the tax element from this. Because when it comes to facilitating business, there is a close link between the different tax elements and the framework conditions. One can not only increase the tax on businesses in one area, for example: to the tax on dividends, without taking account of the taxes on wealth. So from the Christian People's Party's side, we see a context in this. At the same time, I would like to stress that we believe that the tax system is a major driving force in the policy of equalization.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e591	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e594	The Joint Commentary of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre is a summary of broad consensus in important areas. It could be much longer, without requiring negotiations on a new consensus that is not previously known. This is not a government statement, it will come later, but the platform for such a statement is broad. Unlike the Government's message and analyses of gloomy predictions and the passive extension of some selected trends to show how bad things can go, the joint comment shows another way. Norway has great opportunities. Good welfare arrangements can be ensured without increasing the tax burden. It requires a change in policy direction, which can only be achieved by a change of government. There is broad consensus throughout the Committee that the labour force is the country's most sovereign resource. It's previously calculated as 85 pst. of the total wealth, which is twelve times more than the total oil wealth. The labour force of 2.4 million people can be expanded by several hundred thousand if we put in targeted measures, for example: to prevent the expulsion of seniors, to avoid long-term unemployed being hidden away as unemployed, to facilitate the contribution of disabled persons and immigrants to the same level as others, and to allow part-time workers to get full-time employment at their request. The biggest waste in this field, I believe, is the poor use of women's labour and knowledge, and the fact that jobs are centralised away from where the most stable and reasonable labour force exists. It is strange that no other member of the Committee supports the proposal of the Centre for a broader and clearer mention in each State budget of how to make better use of the large reserve. The centre party will provide Norwegian labour force with the opportunity to import cheap labour. The many jobs needed for everyone to contribute will provide a much more active and targeted business and district policy. We want to spend a little more oil money on investments in roads and other infrastructure. It yields far better returns than current foreign investment. We will use our capital strength to help those who will create new industries or develop existing ones. State risk capital needs to be made more readily available and with as low return requirements as those we place abroad. Our new wealth has not come of itself. Today’s biggest contributors – oil and gas, aquaculture and modern technology – were unknown to those who tried to look ahead 30 years ago. In the future, developments and changes will take place quickly. The need for an active country to help business will not be diminished. One of Norway's major advantages is a solid capital force. The timeliness of investing so much out has to be assessed regularly. I see great opportunities for the state to contribute to strategic procurement, among other things. by getting more head offices here than passive spectators to buy up banks, key businesses and fishing resources from others. The profits of non-residents in Norway are much better than that of the oil fund. A continued strategy for the sale of e.g. Statoil shares, in the opinion of the Center Party, are stupid. I'm not going to take on picking out the winning industries of the future. But I think people want to spend more money on health, leisure and healthy food. I think we can get a lot more out of our sea areas -- by growing the blue field both deep and near the spring. Nanotechnology opens up new opportunities, for those who want to, can and dare bet. In this Communication and in the Communication on pensions, there are formulations that create uncertainties as to whether we can meet future commitments in a good way and at the same time take care of other welfare tasks. The uncertainty is unfortunate for anyone other than those who sell private pensions. The centre party believes that the cake to be shared can be made much larger than today by, first, increasing the workforce through an active, targeted and predictable industrial policy, which gives greater tax access from people and companies and lower costs of disability and unemployment, second, by making more preventive work to reduce sick leave, road accidents and crime, thirdly by stepping up the fight against the black economy, and fourthly by facilitating the conditions for voluntary work, inter alia. to help the poorer and the richer elderly to contribute more. Good cooperation on income policy will be essential. A common moderator line, which also includes those with high revenues, has proved to be a success. In particular, the years in which strong growth in management wages, options and dividends has provoked costly wage settlements have been shown. This government has no lucky hand with this collaboration. The follow-up to the recent Labour Law Committee, the release of directors’ salaries and pensions in state companies and the absence of controls on the immigration of cheap labour can now contribute to a cost-effective wage settlement. While a mid-year salary last year was NOK 239,000 and received a supplement of NOK 6 500, the managers of the largest companies received a supplement of NOK 312 000 at the top of SEK 2.3 million. kr. This provokes and may destroy a moderate wage settlement. I want to put forward the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e617	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e622	Proudly, the red-green option presented the observations of the perspective statement, where they had written together on some expenditure proposals. The central points of economic policy, on the other hand, are very wide-ranging. That's interesting. What is also interesting, however, is that the Centre Party has signed up with the Advance Party in a number of areas and that the two parties compete for increased use of the oil money. It's not that easy to figure out what the Central Party really thinks about the use of oil money. In the new programme, they say that ‘the rule of action is a sensible guide’ and that the rule of action should be followed ‘mechanically under good economic conditions’. That is, the Center Party believes that in times like now, you can spend less oil money than the Government does. My question to the Center Party is, are you in favour of or against increased use of oil money? For something is really completely wrong with their program. It is not possible, then, both to increase the use of oil money, to increase the pressure on expenditure enormously and to pay all the actual tax reliefs that you are going through in the programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e631	The President will recall that it is only the President who is to be addressed directly. Even the Center Party doesn't deserve to be sued.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e634	I still thank you for the line. The use of oil money is a central theme, and it is difficult to understand what government parties have meant by the rule of action in recent years. It's spent from 10 to 30 billion dollars in addition to the rule of action, also in the budget, and it's a warning against spending an extra $1 billion. So over the year under the government's government, it's spent an extra 10 billion kroner, without having given the smallest price of the crown, on the price rise or on the interest rate. It says a little bit about how little dangerous it can be to spend money. But the situation can be different if we get a growth in the economy, which we hope we can get. The centre party wants us to have constant discussions about the use of oil money, whether it makes sense to place so much abroad. Today, we hear about the government's proposal that 14 billion kroner be taken back to a research fund next year. The impact of this in the Norwegian economy goes beyond the application of the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e643	In its comments, the Centre Party called for the introduction of the Tobin tax. It is a tax on currency transactions that will particularly affect small countries with their own currencies, and especially those that have large trade with the rest of the world. This means that Norway is one of the countries that will be the toughest if such a Tobin tax is introduced. This leads, among other things, to: that when a fish is to be sold abroad, an additional cost is to be borne. My question to the representative Lund is: what level does the Central Party want this Tobin tax to be on, and how should it be charged? I also have a question as to whether the Senterpartiet has made calculations of how such a tax would affect Norwegian trade with the rest of the world and Norwegian value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e655	Taxes on currency transactions: Many of the currency transactions are speculations. It's an interesting theme. I think it's nice that the Progress Party takes it up, because we're not talking about it too little. One of the meanings of such a tax is to try to finance the good purpose of the United Nations in a way that is different from what we do today. There can be a lot of money coming in that way, and at a meeting of the richest countries in the world that was held recently, there were several Heads of State from large countries and rich countries who just addressed this: how are we going to manage to finance the UN in a sensible way and help the poorest countries? That's what's one of the main goals of this, as well as that of course it can also have other effects. I think it's nice if we could have discussed it much more in the Norwegian big business than what we've been able to do now, where in between we express support for such a thought, but in the next round it's hard to get it done. We have not done any calculations on what this could be, and of course there would be no problem for the Norwegian fishing industry if it were introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e662	It seems that the representative Morten Lund has neither read the Central Party's programme nor got along with the evolution of the economic cycle. The programme of the Centre Party states that, during a cyclical upturn, mechanical application of the action rule should be made. The truth is that Norway is among the countries in Europe with the highest economic growth — about 3.5 pst. in 2005. If you were to start the Central Party programme, you would have to cut out about 20 billion dollars in the 2004 budget and about 20 billion dollars in the 2005 budget. What does the Center Party really mean? Is it the collection of good wishes to be realized, or is it the actual belief that we should have the mechanical application of the code of action in economic recovery, thus cutting DKK 20 billion in the budget for 2004 and also in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e670	The centre party is accused of being too preoccupied with the rule of action and of being too little concerned with the rule of action, and of spending too much oil money. We think it made sense, in the period of decline we've now had, to spend more oil money. It would make more sense to spend the money we've spent, in another way, not by giving tax relief, but by using what was given to tax relief, over the state budget. An estimate from the SSB shows that there would have been 48 000 fewer unemployed in Norway if what had been taxed by this government had been allocated to the budget partly for commercial purposes, partly for public purposes. 48 000 fewer unemployed — if one calculates the labour force of these 48 000 people in national wealth, it is worth 28 billion dollars a year. When we get so many more working, the cake gets bigger, and then we don't need to spend so much oil money. Expanding the workforce is the best way to avoid over-exploitation of oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e677	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e680	For the Left, our future prosperity development is inextricably linked to value creation. Oil activities will, in the future, contribute to the creation of jobs to a limited extent. The Communication states that the mainland economy needs to be strengthened. Most of the enterprises to increase employment, increase income and finance the welfare of the future are not yet in existence. This is why we need to address the important work of laying the foundations for the business life that Norway will live on in the future. Without value creation, there will be no welfare either. In order to ensure Norwegian value creation and future well-being, we need a diversity of jobs in the private and public sectors and a strong voluntary sector across the country. The left will give room for man's creativity in school, in research and in business, and release those who dare to bet, dare to believe an idea. In the future, it must become as natural to start seagoing activities as it is to find a place within an established working life. The reasons are absolutely central to the creation of value, and for the Left it is creating a job for itself, and for the other the most honorable and socially useful one can do. For the Left, there is a clear link between research and development and growth in the economy. Countries capable of renewing business and modernising their public sector are better off than countries that are stuck in old-fashioned industrial structures. Increased commitment to research and development and a tax regime that stimulates re-establishment are therefore the Left's solution to promote the renewal of existing businesses and the creation of much more new enterprises. Research and development needs to be focused on public and private research, somewhat as the Government has done when it presented the research report today. The left is in favour of a stronger focus on the interaction between business and research. It is necessary to create a better framework for commercialisation in research environments, so that researchers establish companies based on knowledge that they have developed. Small and medium-sized enterprises, often based in research environments, often account for entirely innovative technologies and products. The left will provide such companies with better conditions through tax incentives and opportunities for larger donations to foundations. Government as a large customer and order can provide competition that strengthens and develops Norwegian services, producers and suppliers. The left will facilitate a wider use of electronic commerce also in the public domain. During the next enlargement period, half of all public procurement should be done by electronic means and resources should be released in order to provide better services to the state, counties and municipalities. The left is the environmental party in Stortinget because we want to ensure the basis of life and freedom of choice for future generations. As a socially liberal party, the Left will create equal opportunities for everyone. It implies an obligation to ensure the natural basis also for future generations. The natural environment itself is the basis of life for all of us. Seizing that basis of life – clean soil, clean air, clean water and living biodiversity – is therefore essential for our existence. There is no demand for pollution, no demand for environmental damage. The left is the environmental party working for a new and forward-looking environmental policy based on new technologies. We believe that new technologies can help us out of environmental problems if we have politicians who dare to frame and target environmental policy. Globally, we face three major environmental challenges: greenhouse gas emissions, pollutants and biodiversity loss. The left of the government has managed to take responsibility for these environmental challenges. The government's responsible economic policy has provided low interest rates, low interest rates, declining unemployment and growth in business start-ups. Our policies work. The order of the economy provides jobs and well-being. That's the optimism we're going to go to elections on. The red option seems to have written together about some of the naturalities in this matter, but it is not going to get away from the fact that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre can very little agree on how to finance their good heart matters. In a known style, the values are distributed without regard to how they are to be created. It threatens well-being, and that's what we're facing. The left has been associated with the Christian People's Party and the Right in the view of important and necessary social reforms in the tax, pension and conversion of the public sector. The left insists that the path to social liberal society requires a continued responsible economic policy, led by a bourgeois government with the weight of the political centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e708	Long-term discussions on the value of the long-term programmes presented by different governments before a new expansion period may be likely. However, in some cases they have been used by the opposition — and through the last four major elections, there have been current government parties — to extend the cold to a government option. When the same parties now had the opportunity to present their Sem II declaration before the election through a long-term programme, it is striking that one chooses to avoid it and instead presents a perspective message where, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, it is explicitly said that there are no policy proposals here. It is obvious to assume that once the government has chosen this way, it is for two reasons. The first is that you couldn't get through the accordion struggles about a common government program for the next four years. And the second: that a traditional long-term program would make the three parties' own programs considerably less interesting. Well, I guess that's like... Doubtful if Right then could travel land and beach around and tell the voters that if they vote Right, they will get to shop wine from next year. There are two main conclusions we can draw from the perspectives that the message draws up. The social model we have built up to now, with strong joint responsibility for important welfare systems, with good cooperation between the social partners and with a sensible interaction between business and industrial policy authorities, has been successful. It has given us a fair society. It has given almost all the opportunities to participate in the labour market. We have an employment that is among the highest in Europe. It has created great equality and great freedom for individuals, and it has created security. The second conclusion is that the support bars under this social model can fail because the cost of what we are going to fund together will grow so strongly, even though everything suggests that as a society we have greater value to spend in 50 years' time than today. So the question is, How do we manage the increasing wealth? What do we mean it should be used for? Should private wealth grow strongly, while the splinter layer to provide completely central welfare services such as school, health care and care is confusing? That's the last thing that's going to be the result of the government's policy warning in other contexts, when they're going to continue to prioritise new tens of billions in tax relief. Then the gap between our private wealth and the scarcity of resources in school, health and care for the elderly will continue to grow. It would have been clearer for the political debate on the Government had dared to formulate this in clear terms: through such a development, a path will pave the way for the development of private markets in school, health and care. That's good, old-fashioned right-wing policy. They want to change the balance between the private and public sectors. The public sector shall be limited to the benefit of private individuals. When we face major challenges in order to take care of and develop traditional private business, the private sector should free up and create markets in what has now been a common public responsibility in our country. This will result in a society with greater differences and less cohesion, a society with less security and a society where we are more left to ourselves and our own wallet. But the government does not dare to put words on the unpleasant realities of such a development, namely that we have to pay far more of our own wallet for welfare services, and that those who can pay well, thereby buying better and faster services than others. What we need is a much more powerful industrial policy, which can secure and develop a large competitive private sector. Because we also need to ensure the balance of the foreign economy when oil revenues in a few decades are no longer going to solve the problem for us. What we now need is a majority that sets a stronger community as first priority in politics. There are no new billions in tax reliefs that will ensure the well-being and value creation neither in the short term nor in the long term. What has made Norway and the other Nordic countries the safest and best societies for people the most, with a competitive and innovative business life, is that we have invested in strong communities, a fair distribution and an active industrial policy. It is the foundation of this model of society, built on cooperation, interaction and cohesion, which is threatened if we get more of the right-wing policy we have had in this period – a policy that creates conflicts where we need cooperation, which creates greater differences where we need greater justice, and which neglects an active enterprise policy because the toolbox is emptied of tools. We have a common challenge in the future in relation to the large oil and gas revenues. It's the challenges of wealth. The Finance Committee was recently in Sweden and spoke with the Swedish Finance Committee about their pension reform. It was striking to hear how realistic all parties in Sweden were when it came to funding pensions in the future. There's no magic, they said. If the pension is going to be higher, we're going to have to save a larger part of the pension salary. Money comes not from heaven, but from production. At home, some people claim that the money comes, not from heaven, but from somewhere down in the ground. It gives us a social debate that's not real, that can lead us into big problems. There is also no contribution to a more realistic social debate when the members of the government now go around and tell in newspaper articles, at conferences and in this room that we have a record low interest rate because the government has conducted a tight fiscal policy during this period. If spending around DKK 100 billion more than what the rule of action implies, it should be described – and I do not discuss whether it has been right or wrong – as a ‘strong fiscal policy’, the words lose their content. Everyone here knows that the reason for the low interest rate is the conversion of monetary policy into a price rise target, and that the price rise is so low. The reason for this is mainly cheap imports. So thank you for the low interest rate should go first and foremost to China, not to the government quarter. The day we get into trouble and have to have upliftment – politically and in the population, about some difficult choices to solve them, I think it's an advantage that most people have a realistic picture of what it is we can rule here in the Storting, and what we don't have particularly good control over. The pedagogical task should end by undermining through light rhetoric in order to seek the political gain of economic driving forces far beyond the rule of both the Government and the Storting. Now, the government has announced that the use of oil money in the coming period is going down to and preferably down to the level of the rule of action. If we now – for the sake of argument – assume that this government will continue after the elections, and that it really limits the use of oil money down to the rule of action, and that at the same time we will get the progress that everyone is telling us that we are getting, an increase in interest rates up to what is called a normal level, perhaps twice as high as we now have, what are the representatives of the government parties going to explain the reason why we have received higher interest rates, then? That it's because of the government's tight policy? So while the government's so-called tight economic policy in this period has given us a low interest rate, it will give us higher interest in the next period. It will not be easy for most people to get to grips with reality – what driving forces we have to address the economic challenges within, both in the short, medium and long term, and what real governance we have to use in a globalised economy. Lack of will for a social debate dealing with the real problems of governance, and the challenges of economic policy will not make it easier to deal with what I will call the challenges of wealth in the future. At the end, it's how we manage to deal with our oil wealth, which is going to determine whether we can take care of the value creation of a competitive sector and the well-being of that society.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e740	An important basis for the policies of the Right and the Government is the generation responsibility – our responsibility to ensure that those who come after us get at least as good a starting point as what we ourselves have received. It's about the environment, and that's why we use the precautionary principle. It's about culture, and that's why we're committed to preserving our cultural heritage. It is about economics and well-being, and that is why we are committed to sustainable welfare systems, and that we are pursuing an economic policy that provides the basis for economic growth. The big paradox here is that parties engaged in guiding the precautionary principle of environmental policy are not the same in terms of economic policy. Or to quote Geir Arne Bore, who wrote in the newspaper on February 17th: ‘It is strange that SV bases its climate policy on the fact that ecology is going to hell and pension policy on the fact that the economy is going to heaven.’ If we are to assume generation responsibility, we must be concerned about the consequences of today's policy, of course, in the short term, but also in the long term. We must also be concerned about the challenges we face in a longer-term perspective, and what consequences it must have for today's policies. The announcement of the perspective invites us to such a debate, and it shows that without reform we will face a longer-term financial imbalance. Then I register that the representative Svein Roald Hansen, and also others, says that the government parties are unable to enter into the concrete policy that needs to be pursued for the next period, as a consequence of what is being drawn up in the perspective communication. That's not true. The reality is that our government has presented a series of issues that point to the next period, and that respond precisely to the challenges presented in the perspective communication. It shows that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have gathered on a policy that extends far beyond the next period. It concerns tax reform, which focuses on value creation and stimulates employment. It concerns the promise of knowledge, which is to ensure that the individual and the nation come into world-class knowledge. This is about the research report, which will be presented tomorrow. This concerns the reform of pensions, which is designed to stimulate work and ensure that we have well-being schemes that are in balance. And this is about our offensive strategy for modernising the public sector. This points out in the future, and this is also the answer to many of the challenges presented in the Perspective Communication. Much of the debate in the future, and also today, has been about taxation and welfare. The left side is wrong in creating a contrast between lower taxes and better well-being. If we look at the period we have now ruled, we have strengthened the appropriations for school, for health and for elderly care, while at the same time lowering the taxes. It's a policy we want to pursue. It is easy for the socialists in this debate to say that instead of giving DKK 20 billion in tax relief, it should be used to strengthen welfare areas. But if we get a government change, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party can't pick up the money in the Right Program. There is therefore a need to ensure that either an economic policy is pursued that creates growth and thus provides a basis for strengthening well-being, or that the public sector needs to be modernised so as to free resources that can be used to strengthen well-being or lower taxes, as we also want to do. The problem here is that the left has an economic policy that will slow down the growth of the economy, while at the same time wanting to stop the modernisation of the public sector. When we say that there is room to strengthen well-being and to lower taxes, it's because we create space for it in the economic policy that we create. It's not that the left-hand side has the same money at its disposal, because you don't create the same space in the economy to strengthen well-being, as we add. Otherwise, I register that the representative, Djupedal, is talking about building good communities. It's obviously a different society than the society in which the United Nations has spent several years in the world's best country to live. Following this debate, we can still see that the three parties to the socialist option are fundamentally in disagreement with many of the key areas on which the messages of perspective point. There is still an open question about what this good society should be, other than that it should obviously be something quite different from the society that the United Nations has identified as the world's best country.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e762	What this debate and comments in the vote very clearly underline is that there are two fundamentally different views on what is needed in order for a small country to be able to experience a positive economic development, on what is needed in order to achieve positive nutrient development and growth. On the one hand, the bourgeois parties, which focus solely on more private ownership, unregulated markets and lower taxes, such as the factors that can create development and growth, and, on the other hand, on the factors that have made Norway a rich country: a targeted and active industrial policy, a strong research effort and a well-developed public sector. It is worth listening to the World Economic Forum, which ranks which countries are the most productive in the world. The World Economic Forum often believes something that we in SV deeply disagree with, but when it comes to the question of productivity, I don't think anyone can accuse that assembly of being too busy about it. They have thus said that among the six most productive economies in the world, four Nordic welfare countries have a strong and well-developed public sector and, in an international context, a high level of taxation. This shows just the contrast between a relatively high level of taxation and high productivity — a contrast that the Right repeatedly draws on in this debate. If we look at the history of our own country – our own situation – and the countries around us, we see that there is no correlation between tax reduction and growth, on the contrary. There is a link between tax reduction and the creation of gaps in public finances, which not only makes it difficult to achieve welfare development but also makes it more difficult to obtain political governance, in favour of good business development. In the international debate on taxation, more and more people are now pointing to, for example: Norwegian and Swedish experiences, highlighting the benefits for an economy of controlling a large part of our common resources through democracy, through the community. In this way, it is possible to give priority to those tasks which, in isolation — from an economic point of view — do not pay off, but which are economically very profitable, and which provide a basis for increased growth and well-being. As a country, we can choose between taking part in a race at the bottom – where we will compete with countries that have completely different assumptions than us – to be the cheapest in the fight for international investment and production, and to have a strategy to be the best in industries that provide new developments in new technologies, and in innovations, so that as a society we can continue to benefit from the prosperity development created by new technologies and innovation. To achieve this, we need an active industrial policy and an active country. We cannot – like the bourgeois parties – borrow back and believe that in a small country it is the stock exchange and private investment alone that should be able to create such a development. Therefore, fiscal policy undermines not only well-being but also the possibility of an active industrial policy. It's amazing how the right time and again in this debate emphasizes that tax havens should also give more to well-being, rather than being honest enough to say that you're facing some choices and some priorities, and that what Thatcher and Reagan said in the 1980s that large tax papers will only give more money in the public funds has proved to be wrong. It's obviously just as wrong now as it was then. It is also important to say that in the comments from the Red-Green parties, there is an important consensus on some international issues, for example: on taxes on foreign exchange, on carbon and on arms trading. It states that there is agreement on some important international perspectives, which are important not only for a small economy like Norway, but also for poor countries elsewhere in the world. It is interesting to note that the only vision of government parties in relation to international trade policy is about the future of Norwegian farming. It's an important question, but it's not much to boast of as a bearer perspective for the bourgeois parties – based on a small country's role in the international economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e783	We know that future calculations are uncertain. Economic calculations and calculations relate to the composition of the population, life expectancy and general trends. This is also stated in the Communication. But much is also certain! Throughout all times, knowledge nations have done well. Therefore, education and research are also highlighted in the Perspective Communication as one of the main areas of economic growth. The proportion of the population with formal education and the length of education has increased over time. Those who now enter the labour market clearly have much more education than those who leave it. The communication indicates that the more you learn in the formal education system, the better you will be able to learn in the workplace. A developer of learning skills. There is a clear positive link between the development of the level of competence and economic growth. Then a person might ask himself what kind of education matters to innovation and economic growth. We do not know which education provides the highest value creation in the longer term, because such projections will have to rely on uncertain assumptions about technological development and global labour distribution. However, as the Communication points out, focusing on entrepreneurship in school can be important for the emergence of new innovation-based enterprises targeting the international market. Technical innovations are often the result of research and development, either in-house in enterprises or in interaction with research institutions. Therefore, we need to meet the future with an increased focus on education and competence. It is about closer links between training and business, and it is about creating faith and expectation for the development of new knowledge and skills. We need to stimulate research and development through public funding of research institutions, universities and higher education institutions. We need to stimulate increased research in business through different instruments, such as: subsidy schemes and tax deductions. For a small country like ours, there can be a lot to profit from learning from others, as well as investing heavily on own development projects. But a prerequisite for that is that we have a strong research environment ourselves. Norway today has an economy that is strongly influenced by our petroleum resources. But these resources will gradually decline. Therefore, research is absolutely necessary to develop ideas and industries on which one can build. Greater emphasis on nutrition research is important. We need to create better interaction and closer contact between basic research, applied research, research education and business. An offensive knowledge-based business development requires such active cooperation. The role of universities should be extended in order to make the knowledge of universities effective in industrial development. For the Christian People’s Party, it is important to contribute to the development of Norway as a knowledge nation at a high international level and to ensure a national governance of higher education. We will work actively to improve the framework conditions for the higher education sector, and we will protect the free principle of higher education. The Christian People's Party will promote the ideal institutions of higher education as an important part of the national educational structure. Furthermore, we will increase research up to OECD level, and we want public funding to be given priority to basic research and industrial research. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to stimulate the increased commercialisation of research results at universities, colleges and other research environments. In addition to being an important factor in economic growth, investment in research and education can contribute directly to increased well-being. Knowledge development has a self-esteem and also plays an important role as a basis for an informed societal debate and for a well-functioning democracy. The Perspective Message provides a guide for action. It's a help to prepare for tomorrow's society. Today, we need to plan for the development of tomorrow's community of competences. Therefore, the Government also presents research policy priorities in a separate research report tomorrow. It will show that this government sets out the direction of how Norway will become a leading research nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e806	Norway is today a rich and good country to live in. High economic growth has been normal in Norway and other western countries for the last 150 years. Over this period, Norway has moved from one place below the centre in terms of income per year. lives in the western world, to a place near the top. However, it is not obvious that the high growth in income and wealth will continue. There are several historical examples on land where rapidly developed wealth based on non-renewable natural resources has weakened value creation. We therefore have a challenge in ensuring a society where the quality of public welfare is good, while at the same time facilitating work, innovation and growth. The perspective message is meant to give us a basis for action today, so that we can lay the foundation for those who come after us. The pension reform is such a matter. The government believes that a reform is necessary to ensure future pensions. Even with the Pension Commission's proposal, we want to double the cost of pensions as a share of our value creation. Our proposal involves slightly less growth in pension payments, while increasing value creation. If we postpone and wait for reforms, we will have to do more radical work later on. Moreover, uncertainty and uncertainty about something as important as public pensions, a private market, and we cannot live with uncertainty about public schemes. It would also be irresponsible to set us up in such a way that the pension system – and the public finances – is sustainable only by a successful outcome, for example. at exceptionally high oil prices. I record that some parties in the hall have as a motto to let it scour and go, wait and see, until the problems report. However, I have the hope that there will be a majority in this Chamber who will participate in a reform that will ensure good and safe pensions in the future. In the public debate, more have pointed to something as natural as that the future is uncertain and that this also applies to the evolution of life expectancy. The Perspective Communication contains analyses of developments in the Norwegian economy and public finances for three different population projections from the Statistical Central Bureau. The analyses show significant challenges for public finances, regardless of the population projections used. However, if life expectancy increases significantly in the future, the challenges will be greater than they would have been if life expectancy increased slightly — of course. The perspective message shows that we have a lot to pick up by stimulating work. We simply have to make it pay to work. Both the tax reform and the pension reform have this objective. In addition, we need to facilitate a working life with space for more people. Several shall be able to live on their own income and fewer shall be entitled to social security. Our future well-being and prosperity depend on our having a high-growth economy. Although the oil industry has given significant rise to the Norwegian economy in recent years, production in mainland Norway amounts to around 80pst. of the total value creation. This proportion will increase as the petroleum extraction gradually decreases. Ensuring growth potential in the mainland economy is a key challenge for economic policy in the future. The ability to develop and deploy new technologies, new products, new processes, new forms of organisation and work is crucial for the growth of value creation. Economic policy in the broad sense must facilitate innovation, transformation and efficiency, both in business and in public administration. The competence of the workforce is also very important for growth capacity. The government is therefore now implementing important reforms to ensure good quality throughout the education cycle. The government’s response to the challenges is found in the daily policy design that the government parties – together – have come up with during this process of enlargement. We have presented a series of communications and proposals in most policy areas. All proposals point forward. Among other things, tomorrow we will present a communication on a forward-looking research policy. However, I note that the three parties that constitute the socialist government option have not signed up in key policy areas in the configuration of the Financial Committee. Behind the most prominent phrases of the celebrations, we know disagreements in important matters. Among other things, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre disagree with the Workers' Party on the rule of action. It has been made clear in today's debate. The mandate for monetary policy is also not a consensus. And I have to say that there are dangerous experiments to base government power on just disagreement about as important issues as this. It is mildly perceptive that the three parties, less than half a year before the elections, have made no attempt to agree on these important questions. Furthermore, knowing that the three parties are moving in their own direction in terms of the EEA Agreement, the WTO Agreement and the relationship with NATO, is no more than a friendly indication of the realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e829	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e832	The Minister of Finance and his government has presented a statement of perspective that makes it clear that what we call the generation accounts is in severe imbalances, and we have heard that the Right Spokesman in fiscal policy today has renamed this «generational responsibility». In the Minister of Finance's posts here now was perhaps the most enjoyable – if I'm going to look for something nice and positive – his emphasis on the labour market, an inclusive labour market, and that the Minister of Finance paid great attention to the fact that we had to solve the future challenges of ensuring that people can actually be at work. The Minister of Finance also said that the Government’s response to the challenges described in the Communication is the daily policy. That is what is made visible through all the matters that this government has actually promoted for the Storting and the ongoing policy. Then my question is, when the consequence of the government's policy is that 100,000 more are out of the labour market, is the Minister of Finance, in view of this, satisfied with the developments he sees in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e841	No, the government is not satisfied with the number that is currently not in the labour market. Norway is at the top of the labour market exclusion, in the form of sick leave, in the form of disability benefits, in the form of other schemes for workers who cannot participate in the labour market. That is why the Government has also promoted a number of reforms in this area. I want to add that this development has not only happened under this government. It's a development that Hill-Marta Solberg has seen under changing labor party governments for a series of years. But it underlines even more the need for reform. We have implemented reform in the field of disability, which will gradually begin to work. In a short space of time, the government is proposing a pooling of new work and welfare management to coordinate different public services – one place to go and better exploit existing schemes, with a view to bringing people back to work faster. I could also mention examples in the field of fiscal policy that aim to make working more profitable. After all, the pension reform also facilitates a better combination of early retirement and employment, without shortening.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e852	I expect that the Minister of Finance, when we deal with the perspective message, will also have the perspective of how he intends to get through to the policy. Then the question is whether he thinks it's likely that the sitting government parties can continue a case-by-case cooperation with the socialist parties, who will have spent the entire election campaign fighting a non-socialist majority and fighting for a government change. And if the Minister of Finance doesn't think it's likely, why can't the Right and Government parties begin to recognize what everyone but the government parties have done, namely that they will be dependent on close and committed cooperation with the Progress Party? I think this is a question that the sitting government parties avoid answering and doing everything they can to not have to deal with, but it is a fact that everyone but the government parties actually see.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e857	The representative Jensen took up the question of the future of this government in a very pleasant way during the briefing. This perspective message extends until 2060, so I think it was a good place to raise the question of what will happen after the election. I assume that the Progress Party will still feel that it is better with a non-socialist government than a socialist government, at least this debate and several other debates during this session in the Grand Duchy have underlined, I think. On the other hand, whether the Advance Party will be a supporter of the Government in all questions, I am somewhat more in doubt. And the doubt has not subsided when reading this setting, I must say, for a party that basically rejects all attempts to see 50–60 years ahead in time to say that in 1957, the government of Gerhardsen did not see the oil deposits coming, and that, in addition, it may have been wrong sometimes both during the 1960s and 1970s, I think – to say the least – is a bit of a relief. I also see other areas where this government will have to seek support from other parties, such as the United States. in the case of privatisation of State companies, where the Progress Party is not in a position to rely on its programme. But then we must seek support where it is possible to find support for the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e864	I have to say that I have a certain understanding of the line of the representative Jensen, who has contributed to the fact that this government has been sitting for four years, and who is now being met with the kind of overwhelming arrogance expressed by the Council of State in relation to the cooperation to which she is actually inviting. That means that in the coming big thing we will have exactly the same unforeseeableness that we have had in this big thing, a government that is staggering in some way, sometimes with the Progress Party, sometimes with others – if it were so bad that this government was allowed to continue. We hope the voters will understand that it should not. But let me ask a question to the Council of State Per-Cristian Foss, which is based on the definition of responsibleness – «responsibility» is defined by who takes the word in their mouths. I understand that the government is very clear that it is conducting a responsible economic policy – let me say so that we can certainly agree with that. But why can one then use 100 billion more than the State Council Foss himself believes is right on the basis of the rule of action, and still define others as irresponsible? Or let me do the Center Party as an example. They have spent more money in their alternative budget than that, for example. The government or SV has done. They are defined by Per-Kristian Foss as irresponsible, while Foss' money use is responsible. How is the inner logic of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e871	I would recommend the representative, Djupedal, to read the last year of the governor. In one minute it will not be able to repeat itself, but it has a very good conclusion: the government has followed the rule of action, and as a result, the economic growth in Norway is very good, the number of jobs is increasing, the unemployment rate is falling, and we have made a better transition from recession to economic recovery than most other countries in Europe. It shows that it has been reasonable to apply the policy of action flexibly, as prescribed in the design of the policy of action – also in the staging position. I am not going to participate in the competition for responsible economic policies, but I record that the representative Djupedal now said in his post that the government’s economic policy was responsible – and I accept praise wherever it comes from. But I want to put a major emphasis on my reference to the Governor's speech. Since the centre party was mentioned in the post, and I am not allowed to take a line, however, I would like to stress that the problem is that the program says something quite different than what you do in relation to the rule of action. It's a problem in terms of logic and political consistency.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e880	President - Can I get the floor to clarify a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e887	Please – Øystein Djupedal, to a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e890	Unfortunately, I have to correct the Minister of Finance in an important field. What the governor said in his year was that it was now possible to come back to the rule of action. He concluded that, on the contrary, too much money was spent, he even estimated the real return to be 6 pst., and not 4 pst., as the rule of action suggests. He said that the economic outlook now makes it possible to come back to the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e895	Does the Council of State want a comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e898	The answer is yes – something as simple as that. So the government writes in the national budget for the current year, presented last autumn, that the economic outlook is now such that it is possible to gradually return to the mechanical application of the action rule during this decade. But when I referred to the setting of this question, where I myself was the case rapporteur in my own time, it was precisely because the setting underlines that the rule of action cannot be used in a slave, mechanical way, after 4 pst., it must take account of developments in the petroleum industry, and it must take account of the economic situation. Now we can leave aside the discussion as to whether it has made sense or not, because now the results show that we have managed the transitions from recession to new economic growth, combined with the decline in unemployment and the increase in employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e907	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e910	The Perspective Communication draws up some of the scenarios and choices we as a society face in the next fifty years. You have to be careful about predicting the future. Changes and changes are moving at a fast pace. However, something less uncertain than other things, and some trends do not need to be a fortune - teller to see. Most people agree that there is work and the work is throwing away, we're going to live off in the future too. We have a lot to pick up by stimulating work. Our wealth and our well-being have been and are completely dependent on our ability to create value. We know that 80 pst of today's value creation comes from production on land, and that proportion does not decrease in the years to come. Then part of our main challenge is to ensure the growth capacity of the economy, increase the value creation and make sure that the cake we're going to distribute gets bigger and not smaller. We need to develop and implement new technologies, new products, new forms of organisation and work. We need to stimulate the provision of work for a well-trained workforce. We have to make it profitable to work and give our business a framework that allows it to assert itself in international competition. This work has been carried out by the Government at the highest level — with the knowledge promise at school, with the research report, which comes tomorrow, with a fairer tax system, which stimulates jobs and jobs, with greater flexibility in the labour market, among others. through temporary employment. We have conducted a tight fiscal policy, so that we have a competitive interest rate and crown rate. We have put forward proposals for a pension reform that builds up under the working line of modernising the public sector. While we're trying to increase the pie we're going to distribute, we also have to see if we distribute the goods properly, for example. between present and future generations. We have to ask the question of whether our generation can allow itself a consumption that there is no reason to expect our economy to allow for future generations. Each generation should leave to the future generation a richer and more sustainable society. Therefore, it is important to have a more sustainable pension system and an oil fund that will become a long-term pension fund. It's a shame not everyone seems to mean the same thing, for example. The center party, whose new slogans seem to be: Put the entire oil fund into operation – now. The sociologists have written together in the perspective message in some areas, and all those areas are about how to spend more public money. Everything and everyone will get more, except for the richest, who already have the most. They themselves say in the perspective notification setting: «Better and good welfare arrangements for all require a significant extent of a public sector.» Here we are probably at the heart of the difference in the two government options of the harvest: the direction society should take, the size of the public sector and how much the state should decide. So we have different faiths in humans. I'm going to claim that the socialists are skeptical about the individual. They don't think you can handle the money you've earned in a reasonable way, so they want to take the most from one in tax. They claim that public school is destroyed if you want to go to a high school that is not the nearest one, and they claim that if you're so stupid, you choose someone who's private. That's why you shouldn't be allowed to do it. And if you need care and help at home when you're older, you're too old to pick who's going to take care of you. Maybe you would choose one that they think isn't good enough for you. And if you have children, at least you don't know your child's best. The sociologists believe that cash support is not good, and therefore it is best to remove it. Then you don't have to choose. That's how I could keep going. It's about direction, and it's about perspectives for societal development in the future. The right and the government parties have one direction, the socialists another. We believe in the people. We believe that the individual can make reasonable choices, choices that benefit one’s own – the nearest ones, the workplace, the enterprise and society as a whole. We don't think the state always knows what's best for the individual. For the harvest we choose direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e935	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e951	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e958	I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased with the cooperation with all the parties in the Committee on this matter. There has been great willingness to come up with common comments, and one of the reasons is enough is that St.meld. No 13 for 2004–2005 itself has a positive content with regard to the need for sexual abuse to be provided with the assistance they need. On 9 June 2004, the Stortinget asked for feedback from the Government during 2004 to assess the offer to be made by the incest centres and how to organise and finance the offer and, where appropriate, to legalise it. The background was Document No. 8:31 for 2003–2004 and Innst. S No 226 for 2003–2004. The case came back quickly, and the Workers' Party is pleased that the state's share is now to be increased from 50 to 80 pst. This should increase predictability in the operation of the incest centres, but it assumes that the municipalities contribute with their obligations, which will be 20 pst. However, what the Workers' Party is not satisfied with is that the state aid is accordingly deducted from the framework grant to the municipalities. This does not make it easier for municipalities, and therefore it is still difficult for some municipalities to contribute. The Government's proposal for a funding of between 80 and 20 p.m. the State-municipalities are widely supported in the Committee. Only the Progress Party has an aberrant proposal. The Committee also agrees that the organisation should be with the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family, Buffdir. Incest centres are currently a low-threshold service for adults who are struggling with post-trafficking effects. Here, employees will provide advice, support and help based on the principle of self-help. Centres offer talks and are happy to provide advice and help with regard to opportunities through the public utility. The working party is optimistic on behalf of the incest centres and hopes that the centres can gain more competence and quality to provide even more help and support to incest students. There is wide variation from centre to centre in the range of services available, and it is therefore important to develop skills. Unfortunately, those who visit these centres are only getting younger and younger. Young girls all the way down to their 12-year-olds are making contact. It tells us that the need for such low-threshold services is only growing. I hope the government will now start work on identifying the extent of child abuse. We know that there are many hidden numbers and fates here. It is urgent to get started, so that children get a good offer through the auxiliary device, and it is urgent to put in a 24-hour phone for incised children, so that the help can be given quickly. The entire Committee agrees that a Barnas House should be set up, where children can receive comprehensive and interdisciplinary assistance at a single location. With both a 24-hour phone and a Barnas House, we will be better equipped to meet children who are deprived of the most important thing in a child's life, namely trust in adults. Vestfold Incestsenter has long operated a 24-hour telephone service, and I take it for granted that Vestfold Incestsenter is at the top of the list if the Council of State finds it necessary to establish a nationwide green line. I think such a line is necessary. All in all, we have come a long way to consolidate both the incest and crisis centres as a necessary complement to public aid. Crisis and incest centres may look back on 25 years of work to help abused and sexually abused men, women and children. This work shall continue. We have to get at least one incest center in each state, and maybe it'll be necessary in the future with 100 pst. State operation versus law enforcement. We'll evaluate that after an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e986	Today, it is very gratifying to take part in the adoption of the financial instrument that provides the country's incest centres with a safer and more predictable financial framework for their important work. Today’s 18 incest centers offer an important lowthreshold offer to people who have experienced sexual abuse and their relatives. Getting help to self-help in a safe environment, however many of the employees themselves have been exposed to incest, is probably an important factor for many to progress in a very difficult situation. There is every reason to pay great attention to all the voluntary organisations and individuals who have done a great and important job in the establishment and operation of these centres, which is distributed over 15 counties in this country. Setting up a financing mechanism that ensures predictability and a secure framework is probably one of the most important things that politicians can contribute to in this context. This call for proposals addresses important issues in relation to the organisation and financing of incest centres. We think it is natural to equate State grants to the incest centres with the model for financing the crisis centres adopted in the 2005 state budget. There are clear parallels between these offers and the help they provide to people who are subjected to violence and abuse. It has also been discussed whether legal regulation of incest centres is important, and the Right believes that it is not yet the right way to go. It is natural and important that the incest centres are anchored in the municipalities and that they provide financial support to the centres. Legislation will greatly regulate the operation, with the danger of avoiding the necessary local adaptations and the voluntary nature of the operation of very many of these centres. We believe that it is primarily an economic predictability which is the main instrument for a safer drive forward of the centres, not a law enforcement. However, in evaluating the system of incest centres in the next period, we are open to an assessment of the issue of the legalisation of the offer. As regards the question of changes in the free revenues of municipalities, this conversion of funding would involve a lower financial liability for municipalities. It must therefore be reasonable, as proposed by the Government, to withdraw part of the free income from the municipalities. The proposed change in funding is, of course, the same as it was made in the context of the conversion of the financing of crisis centres. St. pp. No 1 for 2004–2005. It is very important that we do not risk this important low-threshold offer bowing under economic conditions. As mentioned earlier, volunteering is an important factor in the operation of these centres and it is important to value volunteering and idealism. It will therefore be interesting in the next evaluation round to highlight the provision and organisation of centres and to cooperate with public support. Finally, a brief explanation of vote: the Government Parties wish to support II of the Committee's recommendation, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to monitor the extent of sexually abused children and young people in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1006	When you read the setting, you'll see that it's basically a collective committee that's behind most of the comments. The progress batch differs at one point and the introduction of an 80 pst. State funding now. And I'm going to give an explanation for that. Of course, the progress party sees the need to have and operate incest centers. It is clearly a complement to the public services and a good offer to adults who have been subjected to abuse in the past and to relatives of vulnerable children. The public offer to vulnerable adults and vulnerable children is not good enough today, especially in view of centres and the need for psychiatric competence for those who have been abused early in life. It may be good to have someone to talk to who understands and knows the issues and what each individual is struggling with. But what the Advancement Party does not feel safe is that there are equally well-qualified personnel at all centres. It is set per month. currently no requirements for who operates such centres and who meets the users at the centres. It should. Otherwise, more damage than good can be done quickly. Of course, there should be great appreciation for commitment and idealism, and it would hardly have existed a single incest centre if it hadn't been for just that. However, it should also be borne in mind that there are people here who may be in a very vulnerable situation, and it is therefore important that there is competence. There is therefore no competence requirement for employees, nor is there any qualification requirement for the operation of incest centres. That means that in reality, anyone can run a center and, after the majority has made their decision today, also get 80 pst. the financing provided by the State. The Committee was very careful that approval was required for child protection institutions, and we should also be here. It should not be easy to open a centre, nor to get money from the state. That being said, don't get me wrong that this is economically conditional. It's not! This is simply to ensure the quality of the offers given to people who are sorely need a hand to hold in. Nor is the party particularly pleased that the introduction of child protection reporting obligations from incest centres is proposed. It may seem that, with all due respect, someone in the department has not fully understood the role of incest centres, when it comes to introducing such a reporting obligation, all the time incest centres are, to a large extent, an offer to adults and a low-threshold offer. We have to get up well to make the threshold into a low threshold offer so high that you stumble. What has to be at the heart of an incest centre is to show individuals the way into the public youth of various kinds of help. Incest centres shall not be a substitute for one of the other public services, but a place where people can turn to be guided further, if that is a wish and a need. If that's not the case, the centres should act as a place where you can meet peers and talk about problems, challenges and what's bad and difficult. I am afraid that it will hardly be the case if the centres get such a reporting obligation. Then you might refuse to open up. As I said, the Progress Party has a different proposal than the majority today. We want to ensure the quality and competence of the incest centers before facilitating an 80 pst. State funding. That is why I am promoting our alternative proposal. In addition, we want to support II in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1021	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1024	The first incest centre was established in Oslo in 1986. This is, in line with the crisis centres, a type of action that we would like to see superfluous in Norway. We thought that if we were just focusing on the problem, we would be able to fight it. Today we have 18 centres in Norway divided into 15 counties. We need a variety of measures to help those who have been incested and sexually assaulted. I have been working with women who have been subjected to abuse for many years as a midwife, and I know that they have different problems and different symptoms, which must be treated differently. It is important that we see, and that we have a treatment offer that can provide help and support. Incest centres are a low-threshold facility that provides day-to-day support for adults who have experienced sexual abuse. They also offer relatives to children and adolescents who have experienced sexual abuse. The centres identify needs and assist in the dissemination of offers through the public utility. In addition, the centres provide prevention and information to other agencies. Both skills and offers are different from centres to centres, and now when we go into funding in line with the crisis centres, with 80 pst. State and 20 pst. municipal funding, it is important that skills are built up in order to provide, as far as possible, a level playing field across the country. For this reason, SV wants to legislate the centres from 1 January 2006, and we would like to stress that all counties should have an incest centre. This is a good and well-functioning lowthreshold service that must be available to users across the country. The centres, in line with the crisis centres, have been marked by an unpredictable economy, which has become more evident especially when the local economy around the country is under pressure. Several municipalities have difficulties in contributing to funding due to poor finances. Some municipalities also say that this problem does not exist in their municipality. Legislation will oblige municipalities to provide their part of the grant and thus ensure the offer locally. The Committee would like the legislative issue to be considered in the evaluation process by the end of 2009. SV believes that it is too bad and proposes a legislative act today, but we will of course subsidiaryly support this proposal if our proposal falls. We need to initiate different measures to protect those who are exposed to sexual abuse in Norway, and we also need to focus more on the fact that boys are also victims. That's why I'm very happy that we get a majority to do a national survey of the extent of sexually abused children in Norway. I am also very pleased that the Right signals that they will support it. I think it is absolutely necessary to implement targeted and appropriate interventions and treatment provision that we have an overview of the extent and the children and young people who are at risk. This has just been done in Sweden, and it is important to see Norway in the context of comparable countries. I am also very pleased that a unanimous Justice Department during the examination of Document No. 8:86 in 2003-2004, the proposal of None Marte Thorkildsen and the undersigned, has supported the intention of this proposal and wishes to strengthen the legal certainty of children who have been subjected to violence and/or sexual assault. The Justice Committee has asked the Government to return to the creation of a Barnas House in the revised national budget for 2005. Barnas Hus is a new model for questioning children and a comprehensive, multidisciplinary assistance service for children exposed to abuse and violence in one place. This works well in many other countries. Finally, I would like to stress that SV believes it would be right to add a 24-hour and free telephone to the incest centre in Vestfold. The incest centre in Vestfold already has a 24-hour telephone line and has extensive experience in this important work. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1043	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1046	To discuss things like this I always do with mixed emotions. I think it is good that we now have a financing system that ensures financial predictability for the incest centres. Incest is a theme that touches something deep down in us people. Close relations that were to be the secure framework and support around a child's life are breaking down, which in turn has led to the innocentness of their childhood being shattered by an adult who was close to them – one they were happy with, and in whom they had confidence. It has profound consequences for a person’s life both in the short and long term. Then it's important that we look at what help these can get. As from 1 January 2006, the Incest Centres are granted aid of 80 pst. of the operational costs, in line with the financing of the crisis centres. In addition, gifts given to the centres of private donors shall be kept out of the ordinary budgets and thus constitute an additional grant to the centres. It gives the 18 incest centres a better opportunity to help young people and adults who have experienced sexual abuse in childhood, and relatives of children who are or have been incested. The centres do a very important job. It is important to keep this offer as a lowthreshold offer. When the committee recently visited West Agder, we met a cross-disciplinary investigation team that has worked to help children where there is a suspicion of sexual abuse. This project has now been completed, and the investigation team can show good results in helping children who show signs of being incested and sexually assaulted. The investigation team has been very active, and in 25 out of 27 cases, a conclusion has been reached to clarify the suspicion. This is a great help for the families and the auxiliary equipment. The Christian People's Party and the Committee therefore ask the Council of State to consider how the experience of this project can be further gained in the auxiliary equipment. I will, like others, also bring forward the work being done at the Incest Centre in Westfold. Since its launch in 1988 and until 2004, the Centre has received a total of 163,223 telephone calls. There are many, and the whole 44.86 pst. they have arrived at night, at a time when the official auxiliary equipment has been closed. And it is usually the most difficult and heaviest telephone calls arrive at night. The Christian People's Party sees the need to provide such a service. We therefore support the efforts to create a nationwide green line with a high level of competence in relation to incestobers, and want the experience from Westfold to be part of the assessment when the department deals with the question of such a telephone line. Incest centres have important and distinctive lowthreshold services, which are difficult to fully cover by public auxiliaries. Experience shows that they do not only serve as a good complement to professional assistance in the 1st and 2nd line services, but for many, these offers are just the way to other ancillary services. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to see the offer of incest centres, in conjunction with other offers available. We are therefore pleased that the Ministry of Children and Family takes the initiative to review and discuss cooperation and work sharing between centres and public authorities in order to develop the best possible offer for incestours. The Committee has also shown that it has previously been decided in this Chamber that a centre of competence or a House of Barnas should come to Norway. In this respect, the need for protection of children must be the overall objective. It is a goal that the child shall receive all necessary follow-up at one and the same place. Good cooperation between Barna’s House, the health services, police and prosecution authorities, courts and child protection is absolutely necessary – and crucial – for the legal security and security of each child. Finally, the Christian People's Party, like the representative from the Right, will also vote in favour of II of the proposal for a decision. It is a work that has been going on, and once this has come up as a proposal, we will be there to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1065	Available research and information suggests that the number of cases of sexual abuse recorded by auxiliaries and police is low compared to the overall incidence of abuse. This is a known substance, but it's going to be a little bit less in St.meld. No 13th@item: This means that strengthening auxiliaries and police is vital to prevent us from getting more incisive substances, and to discover and follow up those who are being abused. St.meld. No 13 should be a wake-up call, a reminder that a very necessary follow-up to what is described by the Ministry must also be reflected in other debates, whether it be a community economy, a child protection budget or a police budget. Then St.meld. No 13 also an example of the importance of taking initiatives from the Storting page, a Document No. Eight proposals from SV and a committee comment from June last year are now followed up. So the government is following up with a more prudent funding for a literally vulnerable area. It's in place from 1 January 2006. It's something that the Center Party is very pleased with. I would also like to emphasise: all the honours given to the many volunteers who have been involved in the year-on-year, both by taking the initiative of the centre and by strengthening and expanding it – and by failing to take account of the budgetary framework and the very insecure economy. It is thought-provoking that one in an area of such great darkness is no longer on the public side. We all know that more initiatives would result in even more people being helped and followed up. It is very rare for you to have so much security and interaction with voluntary agencies for 10 million. kr. This is then an earmark of funds. I would like to congratulate the Council of State on her commitment to continue with ear-marking. We have in different contexts a discussion in the Storting when it comes to what is to be heard, and what is not. There are regular proposals from the Government in the area where the Storting returns. That's the way it is. In some areas, it is therefore necessary to continue with ear markings, either because there is a supply that exists in a few municipalities and is at risk of being wiped out, or because there is an offer to be strengthened for a period of time. I think it's very good that gifts here are kept out when it applies to the calculation of supplements. But I have to say from the Center Party's side that we are deeply disunity in the fact that the earmark that is to be made is going to lead to extremities in the frames. Think of the work that it will involve sitting and calculating the correct extractions for these few cents this applies! It's about 10 million. kr. There's one word on it, and it's "simple". I hope the government thinks about the area before the budget comes. Then the initiatives taken by the Ministry of Children and Family, the review to be carried out when it comes to cooperation and division of labour between centres and different public bodies, are good. And the Central Party is of course part of the orders that were given to the Ministry, including an assessment of the need for a legalisation of this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1088	This is a short but important message. The aim is to stabilise the financial framework conditions for the incest centres and to provide a better starting point than the present day for the work against the probably most taboo of sexual abuse — i.e. incest. In terms of organisational commitment and funding, I am pleased that we have come to a model that the Government and the majority of the majority on the Stortinget can agree on. It's not just 80 pst. State grants to the activity, but also remaining local and regional responsibility for maintaining such a free low threshold as part of the chain of measures to make and assist those victims of such abuses visible. We also agree that administrative responsibility is added to Bufdir, where the incest problem can be seen in the context of family protection and child protection and other problems of violence and abuse. As mentioned in the message, I see this as an opportunity to strengthen the competence and the whole of the offer, from the point of view of the individual user. Strengthening the incest centres must be seen as part of the Government's overall work against violence and abuse. The 2004-2007 Government Action Plan on Violence in Close Relations provides for the establishment of regional resource environments or resource centres in the field of violence and trauma in order to contribute to better and more holistic services. Competence here will also include sexual assault. The regional environments of competence will provide education and guidance for the first and second line services and will also have a coordinating role and work for better coordination and cooperation between different services, including incest centres. This will benefit incestants. Incest centres are targeted primarily at adults, while the number of users under the age of 18 appears to be increasing. Incest centres must therefore include a child/young person perspective. The government's plan against sexual and physical abuse against children, which several departments cooperate on, will be put in print in a short time. Improving the assistance and follow-up of children exposed to incest will be one of the objectives of the plan. In its opinion, the Committee asks that the Government: ‘identify the extent of sexually abused children and young people in Norway’. We will follow this up in the context of the new plan, which is now in the final phase. The Committee also asks the Government to consider how the experience of the project with the investigation team on sexual assaults in West Agder can be further recovered in the auxiliary apparatus. This will be done. The question of whether such investigation teams should be tested in several places in the country will be considered, inter alia. in relation to the construction of the regional resource environment or the resource centres in the area of violence and trauma, as I mentioned, to be established as part of the follow-up to the action plan against violence in close relations. The Incest Centres are a complement to the public offer. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to stress the importance that the health sector also sees its responsibilities and participates in the work for a better public offer to incest holders. Incest centres do not, nor shall they provide, traditional health services. And it is clear that incestants will also need adequate treatment and assistance from the community's health services and from specialist health services. I really believe that the regional environments of competence that we are about to build, where the health sector is strongly involved, will help to improve the supply. Finally, I have noticed that the Committee also wants an evaluation of the incest centres and their offer and cooperation with the public during the forthcoming ageing period. This will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1112	I would like to start by saying that I am happy and proud that the private proposal that May Hansen, Heikki Holmås and I had delivered in 2004, now yields results. Incest centres have had an unsustainable and uncertain financial situation for years. It is very important that the state now assumes greater responsibility for the economy of the centres, depending on whether we would have wanted the proposal to go further, in the form of legislation, and that the grants to the centres are not deducted from the local authorities' framework grants. But at least we've come a step in the right direction, and we'll give the Council of State credit for this. We are also pleased that the original SV proposal to develop a spatial coverage plan for the incest centres is now being adopted to improve the supply of users across the country, including men. This is very important for incestants in Norway. That the scope of sexual abuse should be monitored is high time, and we are pleased that – eventually – an overall committee has been behind this. I'm from Westfold. In my county, we have an incest center that we're proud of. It has, among other things, a 24-hour telephone, which has received 163,223 calls from vulnerable children, young people and adults of both sexes, from the start of the centre in 1988 up to and including 2004, related to vulnerable, insurgents and others closely affected by this problem. 50 pst. telephone calls come for a period of 24 hours when the auxiliary public utility is closed. It is usually at night the most difficult and heaviest enquiries come. Then a lot of people are caught by memories, where they rediscover the abuses they've been perpetrated. The Incest Center in Westfold has gradually developed a name and a reputation that makes a lot of people refer to them. It has developed close cooperation with the public auxiliaries, both inside and outside Westfold. Most incest centres ask their users to call when their own centre is closed, and many have read the telephone number on their answer, so that their users can call when their own centre is closed. Mental Health, the Church’s SOS, crisis centers and other 24-hour phones also refer exposed callers to the Incest Center in Westfold. The situation per person. today is worrying. The Incest Centre loses grants, including: because the municipalities of Westfold feel that it is unfair for them to subsidise users from other parts of the country, in particular in a situation where the local economy is extremely difficult. This year, the Centre will have a total reduction in operating support of nearly half a million kroner. The future is mildly uncertain, several municipalities follow closely what is now happening. It should also be said, in the name of honesty, that some of these municipalities draw their support for other reasons, such as that they do not feel that they can afford to support the incest centre, which we see from the SV side is completely unacceptable. The Ministry of Children and Family will now investigate where the free 24-hour telephone that the Committee wishes to use is to be located, but in the meantime we risk that the only telephone that is per. Today there is, being laid down. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State directly: will she quickly clarify the question of where the telephone is placed? That's the first question. But the second, and more importantly, the question I want to ask, is: Will she be open to a solution where the state grants an extraordinary grant, if it turns out that the Incest Centre in Westfold is unable to maintain the existing phone in the time when the Ministry of Children and Family assesses where the new phone should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1131	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1134	First to 24-hour telephone service: In the message we write that a 24-hour telephone, either as a separate device or connected to other telephone services, seems to be the best solution, and that the department is working further towards such a solution. Since the message was printed, this has been recorded, among others. in cooperation with the two Directorates Social and Health Directorates and Bufdir. They are now in the process of making a concrete assessment of the different options. We are also engaged in a previously promised monitoring and coordination of various help phones under the Government’s child and youth mental health strategy. This work is also in progress. The new thing about our message now is to directly involve the need for a nationwide 24-hour telephone for incest workers. I believe it is important that a 24-hour telephone service to incestants have special competence in relation to this target group. The existing offers are now being explored, and we will come back with a recommendation as quickly as we can. Then to the Incest Centre in Westfold and the financing in 2005: Fortunately, it is not as difficult and problematic as the previous speaker said. We have had contact, via the county council, with the municipalities of Vestfold and also with the county council and the health region. So we've done research, and there's a lot of evidence that there's a political will in the municipalities to support the Incest Center. Not all municipalities have made a political decision. It's the same thing that we've experienced before some places, some municipalities say they want to withdraw the support at administrative level, but when we make contact, it turns out that it's actually political will anyway. One of the issues is that the Centre has now been afraid to lose its support. Regional aid has already been confirmed by both Health South and County. Although Health Sør has said that they will reduce the effort, the county council tells us that they will compensate for this. It's very joyful. And of course, I would strongly urge all the municipalities that have not yet taken their decision to support locally, then the State grant scheme will contribute the corresponding amount. It is therefore to be expected that the total aid to the Incest Centre in Westfold in 2005 will be better than currently assumed by the Centre itself. I have faith in that. And we're going to follow along, we're going to follow this up. I have ten seconds left. I was also asked if the state would make extraordinary efforts if such and such would happen. I guess I can only answer from this speaker that the system that has been set up in terms of funding is based on a municipal budget in the local environment, and then it's up to the state to provide support. But we still believe that we need to find a solution, since we've always found it so far for the crisis centers as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1147	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1163	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1172	In the past few years, we have experienced an economic upswing and an effort that was initially aimed at improving the physical framework conditions for care for the elderly, and an enormous investment and construction of nursing homes and nursing homes has produced results. However, Stortinget’s treatment of St.meld showed. No 45 for 2002–03, which took into account the quality of municipal care services, that we still have major shortcomings and needs to be met before we can be satisfied with the situation in the care services. The proposal by the Storing representatives Sigbjørn Molvik and Olav Gunnar Ballo can be seen and understood as a follow-up to the views expressed when Stortinget dealt with the quality notification. An overall social committee has for a long time been involved in the staffing of hospitals in general and medical coverage in particular. Thus, there is reason to recall that an overall committee in its position on the 2003 State Budget expressed concern about the medical coverage of municipal institutions for the elderly and the disabled. An overall committee reiterated this concern in the context of the 2004 State budget. When such a concern is expressed, it has, among other things, a tendency towards more and more community care being provided to patients from hospitals with a clearly higher level of care needs than in the past, inter alia. as a result of changes in hospital printing practices. In order for the municipal care services to be able to handle the tasks thus assigned to them, it is essential that the nursing home staff is dimensioned for this situation. The entire Committee expresses different positive expectations for the presentation of the results of the Social and Health Directorate’s examination and monitoring of medical services to patients in nursing homes and residents in nursing homes. The Committee considers that the information provided here could have a significant impact on the improvement of the environment and the quality of nursing homes. A minority in the Committee considers that this investigation should be awaited and would therefore like the proposal to be annexed to the Protocol. The majority of the Committee sees the importance of such a broader mapping, but considers that it already has a coverage to identify the need for general criteria that ensure satisfactory medical coverage at hospitals. [[It sounds like a crash, the speaker's chair collapses, and a glass of water is rolling.]] In this context, there is reason to point to the results of the SINTEF Health Study conducted at 29 hospitals. This study shows that there is a wide variation between hospitals, with medical coverage ranging from 2.6 to 26 patients per year. playtime. These are variations of such a nature that the entire Committee considers them to be too large. The majority think they're so big that it can't be accepted. In this context, the majority therefore sees the need for a very rapid improvement in the medical coverage of hospitals and already wants to have criteria for medical standards. They request that this be drawn up in the context of the Community proposal, so that it can also be taken into account in the forthcoming budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1193	The president regrets the small technical accident, but hopes it didn't interfere too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1196	Now it's dried up, so it's ready for the next guy.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1201	Yes, then it's clear for the next speaker, who is Bent Höie – it's asked if he's going to be okay with the low altitude, but the president hopes it's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1204	Yes, President, it's not bad when the Workers' Party dries up after itself before they drop Right to. That could have happened in other areas too! What is at stake today is not a question of the perception of reality, because I think there is a broad political consensus about it, namely that we have a major challenge in raising the professional level and offer in the country's nursing home, and that it is not least a challenge to both raise the level of medical coverage and ensure the quality of the content of the role of the supervisor. Here's the big challenge. The Committee's disagreement is more linked to the instruments to be used and the speed with which the size should be involved and the means to be used. The minority, consisting of the Right Christian People's Party and the Center Party, points out that there is a challenge linked to the fact that norms can also be perceived as a maximum norm in the municipalities, and one comes quickly into a discussion about the role distribution between the municipalities and the state about who is responsible for also defining the content of the services. On TV, there is now an advertisement that has as its main message that the simplest often is the best. I believe that in this area we are in a situation where it is wrong. The simplest is not necessarily the best in this area. We're concerned that by doing such a strong state intervention as setting a fixed norm for medical coverage, we're choosing a solution that can initially work very easily, but that doesn't necessarily lead to a achievement of what is the goal. A standard figure can very quickly result in a strong focus on counting the number of hours instead of assessing more closely the competence of the individual service provider and the quality of the services provided to the individual user. I mean, among other things: that there are major challenges to how the individual doctor defines his/her role as a supervisor at the individual hospital. If you're a supervisor with very few hours in many departments, in a very small part of your position, a question might be asked if the content of that role is really what it was supposed to be. There is an overall committee that believes that when the Government now assesses the full range of measures to improve this situation, it should consider how to take advantage of the role of supervisors, inter alia. by being part of a wider geriatric environment of competence, and not least by ensuring stable and good cooperation with the other health professionals at the hospital. This will give a more focused focus on the transfer of experience and help all those who work in the hospital to get a professional development that provides a smooth, good offer to the patient. This will include, inter alia: means that one should look at whether or not those with supervisory responsibilities are also more closely linked to this, and can spend more time on it, and not least relate to a specialist environment, with which we see that one has succeeded in the so-called educational health homes, where one has gained much more focus on the professional content. That's why government parties go against Document No. the 8th proposal and proposes that it be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1219	Would the representative, Mr Höie, address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1224	Yes, I'm addressing the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1229	The representative Bent Höie then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1234	Like the proposers, the Progress Party has been aware that both the supervisory coverage and the coverage of other staff in our long-term somatic hospitals have been unsatisfactory, and now limits to the irresponsible. This situation has also been documented in recent years in various reports, both from the State Health Agency, the Norwegian Nurse Association and the Norwegian Medical Association. The weight of nursing in our somatic hospitals has changed significantly only in the last few to three years, as older people are treated at a much higher age, and the discharge from public hospitals is faster and faster. This means that there are today in the public hospitals we find the absolute worst patients, while medical coverage and care coverage have not increased significantly. On average, the care factor in nursing homes is about today. 0.67 – only a slight increase from the 1970s, when the same care factor was 0.57. The average age of current health care providers is 84 years, and in addition, there will at any time be patients in nursing homes who need intensive treatment and follow-up more often because of a wide range of diagnoses. The proposers in Document No. 8:19 is based on the justification for getting the standard medical staff in our nursing home in a report that SINTEF Health has commissioned from the trade union Norsk Nursing Association and the Norwegian Medical Association. I am personally not particularly impressed with this report, and believe that it is not very representative, since only 29 Norwegian hospitals have been surveyed, while the number of public hospitals is between 700 and 800. For me, the report seems like a clean order shop. Professors Torgeir Bruun Wyller and Petter Laake at the University of Oslo state to the Evening Post on 7 March that the report is worthless and has so many weaknesses that they will warn against making political decisions based on it. I fully agree with these professors. I have on behalf of the Progress Party several times proposed that the Health Directorate should draw up a standard staffing plan for both supervisors and other nursing staff in public health care homes. I recently promoted such a proposal in connection with the treatment of the state budget for the current year. Unfortunately, it was not possible to achieve any other than the votes of the Progress Party for this. I honestly believe that the undernourishment of nurses and caregivers is far more precarious in public hospitals today than the supervision system is. Any patient who is in a public hospital home has his or her own appointment, and this prescriber can be used in a single hospital, if desired, so that the medical coverage should at least be ensured in emergency cases. But it is equally clear that a larger medical coverage would also be a great advantage in view of a better continuous follow-up of the individual patient in the hospital. I support the proposal in Document No. 8:19 This time, because I feel reasonably sure that an increased medical staff in the public hospitals will force an increase in both the number of nurses and the number of assistants. It will only force itself to make use of the potential increase in medical capacity of public hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1254	Patients in Norwegian nursing homes are the patients in Norwegian health services who are likely to have the worst care and treatment options in terms of both quantity and quality. This is unworthy for a society that has the best conditions for having one of the world's best health services, including for this patient group. A significant proportion of Norwegian health care providers have a complex disease picture with a number of diagnoses and an extensive need for medical treatment, supervision and follow-up. It is also part of the picture that residents — or patients if you want — at Norwegian nursing homes today have a much worse health status now than was the case just a few years ago. Many of the patients in a municipal hospital today would have been hospitalized a few years ago. This is related, as others have noted, to the fact that average lay time in Norwegian hospitals has suffered a partly dramatic decline in recent years. And there's a lot of evidence to suggest that the quality and extent of hospital care is not adapted to this development. This may be due to inadequate staffing, both in the case of different types of nursing staff and in the case of doctors. In SV we have been very concerned about ensuring adequate and well qualified staff in the care sector, and this is still going to be a high priority area for us. However, more and more reports suggest that the situation with regard to the staffing of doctors is the most precarious, and it is also with regard to medical staff, that we see the greatest variations from municipalities to municipalities and from hospitals to hospitals. A report from SINTEF, carried out at 29 Norwegian hospitals, reveals that the nursing homes with the highest crew have ten times as many doctors per day. patients per week as those with the lowest crew. So I would like to point out in brackets that the professionals who have objected to this report, in a letter to the Social Committee, express support for the introduction of minimum medical standards, the ability to have critical comments on parts of the report. This issue has been addressed for a long time by SV, and we suggested, among other things. in 2003 for the treatment of St.meld. No 45 for 2002-2003 on improving the quality of municipal care services to ask the Government to assess such a minimum standard. We didn't get a majority for that time. It was only the Workers' Party that supported us, while the Advance Party, which has spoken hot for crew standards once in a while, would not be there when it came to the play. This SINTEF report, which came last autumn, revealed once again with all the desirable clarity both the differences in medical coverage and the clear correlation between the number of medical works and the quality of the medical supply. As a result, SV resumed the proposal, also because large and important trade unions in the care sector strongly recommended such standards – not only the Medical Association but also the Trade Union and the Nursing Association. It is therefore very gratifying that the majority of population today will decide to ask the Government to develop the criteria for such minimum standards. Hospitals are the responsibility of municipalities, and this important reform that we are adopting today will have the effect that the majority want, it is essential that municipalities are financially able to carry out better medical coverage at their hospitals. The size is often – and usually for good reason – criticised for adopting improvements and reforms to be implemented by municipalities, but without the same magnitude showing the necessary willingness to participate in paying the bill for the reforms. This is precisely why this proposal on guidelines for minimum standards is linked to the 2006 municipalproposition. The majority do this to ensure that the extra costs will trigger minimum standards for municipalities are included when the Government presents its financial arrangements to the municipalities for the next year through the presentation of the municipal bill to the Stortinget Spring. The decision taken here today is an important step forward in ensuring better quality treatment, care and care in municipalities. However, it is absolutely necessary that we intensify work to ensure both better basic staffing and highly qualified staff, also in the case of other occupational groups in the municipal care services. For SV, this will be one of the most important things in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1284	The Christian People's Party has been working for a long time to improve the medical coverage of our homes. The need is clearly documented by the State Health Authority and several Sintef reports. Introducing the fixed-term reform, municipalities were given the opportunity to commit their decision-makers to public medical work. Although many have used this opportunity to expand medical capacity in hospitals, there is still considerable potential for improvement. The Christian People's Party believes it is important not to focus unilaterally on quantity; it is equally important with good quality in the work done in nursing homes. High levels of competence are important because the number of older people is increasing, and many of them are in a health-impaired situation and often have more diagnostics. In such a situation, it is important to be able to observe, elucidate and distinguish symptoms so that patients are correctly diagnosed and properly treated. It's e.g. important that the consequences of mismedication are not confused with senility. For many patients, the nursing home is the last stop on the way to life. Many fear that this phase of life will be painful and difficult. Doctors and other health professionals need competences in relieving medicine in order to provide good care at the end of their lives. The Christian People's Party is pleased that more and more hospitals have their own departments for this. We think it is positive and support that in all continuing training of general practitioners, a knowledge of the special health and disease conditions of the elderly should be included. It is also important to further develop teaching homes and strengthen research environments in geriatry. The letter from the Minister of Health of 24 January this year points to other success factors that should also be present in order to achieve the objective of strengthening and professional development of medical care in hospital homes. I would particularly like to mention the good organisation of the structure of medical care, with good practice, good equipment, interdisciplinary cooperation and not least good cooperation with the relatives. Improvements are being made between first and second line services, so that follow-up is improved after hospitalisation. This is also absolutely necessary, as hospital lay time is getting shorter and shorter. In this context, I look forward to the follow-up to the Wisløff Committee's investigation, NOU 2005:3, «From piece to piece. A coherent health service’. The committee proposes to strengthen the scheme with an individual plan. By making good, concrete individual plans based on the patient’s needs, the quality of treatment is enhanced for the benefit of the patient. The Christian People's Party has faith in municipal autonomy. No municipalities or nursing homes are the same and will therefore have different needs. Municipalities must provide necessary and sound health care to all those who need it. There are no supervisory reports showing that hospital care is irresponsible, although the number of medical sessions for residents in the somatic hospital wards varies widely between municipalities. The Christian People's Party sees the need for more medical positions, but does not support the demand for a minimum standard. We do not believe a state-determined standard figure ensures the flexibility and provides the efficient use of resources required by the municipalities. Nor does a standard number ensure that a sufficient number of qualified personnel is available. There is a risk that one shifts the focus from quality to quantity. When we visited Sweden a short time ago, the Workers' Party's sister party, the Social Democrats, said that they were no longer concerned with norms. It had not given the expected result, but only led to a locking development, as they expressed it. Their answer was that a good health care process was sought. I wish the majority followed Sweden's advice today. It's allowed to hope! The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the end of the Social and Health Directorate's screening process. We imagine a comprehensive follow-up that assesses other measures than just a minimum standard for doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1312	Several reports and reports of concern show that the medical coverage of some of our elderly institutions is too poor. At the same time, however, it is quite clear, and it is also recognised in the SINTEF report that several have shown that it is difficult to find good parameters and measurable sizes to see what causes good quality or poor quality in part of our hospitals. It should be noted, inter alia, that: while the volume of medical services is considered sufficient, it is important that the follow-up is of quality and safety. It is not always good enough to follow up, nor is it always good enough to follow up on the care service. It concerns both the number of care providers and the professional competence of care providers. The centre party has been concerned that our elderly people will get a decent and good old age and a good health service. We see that there is an increasing pressure on the hospitals to provide such a good service. This is due, inter alia, to: increasing the number of older people, increasing the number of older people, and the fact that specialist health services are now much faster to print out patients who have to be admitted to hospitals. This concerns the Center Party, and it makes us open to discuss how to organise medical care at our nursing homes. When the Minister of Health indicates that the Directorate of Social and Health will provide in a short time a monitoring of the medical services for patients in nursing homes and residents in nursing homes, we believe that it is appropriate to take time to look at that monitoring, a survey that should not only focus on quantitative factors but also on the professional content of the service and the quality of the user experienced. We think that's right. It is a set of instruments that are needed to improve the quality of our nursing homes. This is reflected in the overall manpower picture, in professional competence and competence and in building conditions, as the SINTEF report also underlines. In this context, there may be reason to recall that we had a relatively large disagreement in this room when it came to the need for future hospitals and how many should be developed reasonably quickly, so that we would have good enough building mass to accommodate our elderly. It is clear that in many places there are still problems with overcoating and difficult working conditions, and therefore also difficult conditions of well-being, in relation to following up well enough professionally. I believe, like the representative Woie Duesund, that it is difficult to standardise a better quality. I believe that the competence of geriatry needs to be improved in general, both in the case of doctors and nurses. I believe that the status of this medical field needs to be strengthened in order to provide adequate care and care for the elderly and good enough medical treatment. A former party leader said quite a few years ago that you cannot pump health professionals out of the boreholes. He was right about that. However, health professionals – including several supervisors – are not given access to buttons and gloss pictures, nor do health professionals come through good formulations of minimum standards in large-scale documents. It is clear that we need to make economic instruments available to get the professional instruments in place, and that applies to good enough personnel. It was interesting to hear in Riksdag that in Sweden there are no standards for medical coverage, either for geriatrics, but it was pointed out that the state has a responsibility to look after and decide that there are tools for satisfactory coverage. In fact, I believe that I am now quite simply referring to what was said in the Norwegian language. And it strengthens my faith that one must have the will to give the municipalities good enough finances so that they have the opportunity to hire enough health professionals, including supervisors. That is what is most important, rather than adopting pious objectives on minimum standards, among other things. the toy coverage. I think it's the set of instruments that's the most important, and we're going to come back to that when we get the report from the directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1329	First, I would like to stress that everyone, whether living at home or in a nursing home, has the right to necessary and good medical care. Sickness discs are most often disabled and have reduced health. Many patients have multiple diagnoses. This requires close and continuous cooperation between nursing staff and the doctor responsible for medical treatment. In many cases, good services will also require close cooperation between the hospital and the hospital. In 1999, the State Health Authority carried out a survey of the medical services at the country’s hospital home. Their report suggests a need for approx. 50 more plays. Since 1998, there has been a positive trend in the overall medical coverage in municipalities. This has also benefited the nursing homes. A survey from the Statistical Centre shows that for the period 1998–2003 there was an increase of 42 medical wards in hospitals. This gives reason to believe that the prerequisites for providing the necessary and prudent medical care in the municipality have been improved. A 2003 health monitoring carried out by the State Health Inspectorate shows that basic care and treatment are consistently well maintained in hospitals. On the other hand, a 2004 SINTEF report on hospital staff and services shows that there is a wide variation in medical coverage between the 29 hospital wards covered by the survey. In any case, there is a widespread perception that it is necessary to strengthen medical care for patients in the care sector. I share that view, but I also experience that this part of the medical service works well in a lot of municipalities. Municipalities have come into disrepute in creating good services for their inhabitants. National policies should seek to take account of the inter-municipal variations. Health supervision underlines the importance of continuity and stability in medical and nursing care services. Furthermore, the doctor’s time is at the hospital, interdisciplinary cooperation, adequate equipment, good practice, cooperation with relatives, remuneration, etc. key success factors. Research, professional development and education activities are already under way. For example, post- and specialist training of general practitioners and educational home projects has been established. In Bergen and Oslo, active research environments are established in geriatry and home medicine. I have also asked the Social and Health Directorate to investigate the future organisation and funding of research in general medicine. This will include research in the field of home medicine. This I will come back to in the budget for the autumn. The Government has entered into an agreement with the Local Governments’ Central Association on the development of quality of care services. The medical capacity at home has been discussed in this context. KS has encouraged the municipalities of the country to link the possibility of a fixed-term contract to commit the permanent medical practitioner to public medical work. The Ministry has done the same in circulars to the municipalities in connection with the transmission of the status report on the fixed medical scheme, which was after two and a half years. The Wisløff Committee has made several recommendations on interaction between the municipal health service and the specialist health service. I will consider these after the summary of the consultation round. In this context, I will also be able to assess whether hospitals provide adequate guidance and outpatient services to ensure the necessary medical services for hospital wards. I would like to point out that a substantial part of the municipalities already have a satisfactory medical service. In relation to these municipalities, standardisation may be counterproductive. A minimum standard is often practised as a maximum standard. A national standard cannot meet different individual needs or capture varying local conditions. Health and social legislation gives each patient the right to the necessary and prudent medical care regardless of whether they live in their own home, nursing home or nursing home. Standardisation of medical services may, in my opinion, distort the focus of individual patient needs into standardised solutions. However, it must be stressed that the Government will, of course, follow the decision of the majority of the Grand Duchy on this matter, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1359	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1362	In an email from the Norwegian Medical Association, please state: ‘The Legacy Association has received several concerned reports that’ — the famous ‘SINTEF report is used as an argument to cut crews at Norwegian nursing homes’. I would first like to say that it should have thought about even in advance, those who ordered that report. My question to the Minister of Health is: Has it been recorded in the Department that this report is actually used in municipalities to reduce nursing in public hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1374	Without prejudice to the fact that I do not have an overview of all the drawers in the department, I do not think we have experience that Norwegian municipalities have, in general or in exceptional cases, taken the report that the representative Alvheim referred to as the famous report, to the basis of his cuts. Let me add one more thing – once I'm in the pulpit – related to standardisation. I remember what this was like – I kept saying – in the old days, in the 1980s, when I was the rapporteur myself. Then you had a minimum standard for crew. I remember the discussions that were in our municipality and in many other municipalities about how much you should move in relation to the minimum standard, because then we had to finance it ourselves in the municipalities, because the county council was responsible for the hospital. I fear that there may be a possible development for this as well. I think the most important thing is to establish that the individual has a right to medical care whether they are here or there, and that we can probably do well without these norms, as we do in the rest of the health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1383	I underlined in my main post how important it is that when Stortinget now decides that there should be a minimum standard of medical coverage at the hospitals in the municipalities, Stortinget must help to ensure that this actually becomes a reality by following money. That's exactly why the majority agrees that the matter should come back to Stortinget as part of the municipal proposition for spring. Then I registered that the Council of State closed its contribution to assure him that he would follow up on the decision of the Storting as far as it can be done, or something in that direction. Then I would like to ask the Council to confirm that the additional costs will trigger a higher medical coverage at the hospital will be included as part of the calculation of the level of expenditure of municipalities for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1390	I was relatively conscious when I finished my post. It'll always be as far as you can go. There's two things I had in mind. Obviously, the economic aspect is always one piece. Even when Stortinget sets its spending frameworks, it is always good purpose that one should have had within, but that one should not do even if there were plenary decisions in advance. The second is some practicalities related to a proposition to be promoted in not many days, and how in-depth investigations can be made within that time. If the Stortinget decides to make this in the municipal bill, then you have to go to the extremes in order to meet it, of course. But you can’t – and I think it’s right not to – ignore that it won’t necessarily be a proper review of the relatively comprehensive matter this is. This may mean in the worst case case, that you get a poor round at first, but then you have the opportunity to go back to the harvest. But the government will, of course, as usual, extend to the utmost to comply with the wishes of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1399	It could have been interesting now to take a new round of goals and instruments in terms of economics, but I won't do that. I'm going to ask the council about two things based on what he himself said in his post. He came to the conclusion that there had to be better cooperation between the hospitals and the specialist health service. How will the Minister of Health contribute to this and ensure that this happens, given that he is the head of one party, namely the specialist health service? At the same time, the Council of State was also in the field of pay and employment in order to improve the quality and conditions of more people in the care sector. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Health if he will now do something about the rotational services system for health professionals, so that it becomes more attractive to work in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1408	The collaboration between the hospital and the specialist health service was just such a thematically very rapid approach. It is quite obvious that we have a challenge – not to say a problem – with the development we have in the specialist health service, which is that we are getting more and more somatic cases that can be printed much faster out of our hospitals. It is also true that medical developments now make our elderly subject to somatic treatment that only 10–15 years ago were totally out of date. This means that very many people are ready to print and come home, but still are in such a bad shape that it is unwarranted with a nursing home or, for that matter, that they are placed in a nursing home. We have described some of this in St.prp. No 1 related to our local hospital and possible new content. But in many places, both in the specialist health service and in meetings with the municipalities, we also look at whether there are some half-way services that need to be formalised in a different way. We've been talking about that for many years, really, but progress is clearly moving towards a greater need for it. In the case of tour and non-discrimination, which was a question, I would say that it would hardly release large financial resources in the municipalities if we were to choose to go away from the scheme we have today, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1418	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1423	I find it appropriate to take the word attached to the fact that several speakers have been involved in the relationship between quantity and quality. Among other things, the representative Woie Duesund was concerned that the focus on quantity that is in a minimum standard would draw focus away from quality. I want to think that this is an overconstructed contradiction. On the contrary, the quantity and quality of this area are fairly closely linked. The quality of health services provided to health care providers is related to the number of medical sessions per person. patients. Then you might say what you want about this SINTEF report – it's a description from 29 Norwegian hospitals and nothing more than that – but it's pretty clear that in one area there's a very close connection between the quality experienced and the number of medical sessions. And that's exactly when it comes to med school. For other occupational groups, it is more difficult in this report to refer to such a clear context. That is one of the reasons why SV now takes up this proposal again. So it is not that this is the only – and only rewarding – measure to get a better care and care service in the municipalities. It's not that, at least not for SV. In various contexts, we have promoted a wide range of proposals relating to other basic staffing, recruitment, empowerment, improving working conditions in this sector, and not least to a significantly better local economy, which will ultimately be the main basis for better care and care for the sick, the elderly and the need for care.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1430	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1450	The most important thing about the drug reform that this government has put on the agenda and adopted is that the individual drug addict is now finally entitled to a comprehensive treatment offer. Through the statutory right to individual levels of the social service law, drug users with long-standing and complex needs for services are now finally both seen and heard. I am particularly pleased that the Minister of Health and Health has been so clear in his speech on the need for increased treatment capacity in the care of drug users. I also welcome the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the percentage growth in drug treatment should be stronger than in somatic specialist health services. An important objective of the drug reform is to improve the coordination of services and a comprehensive supply to drug users with complex problems. The right to individual levels of drug reform is also enshrined in the social services law and is an important tool in this respect. Patients treated in institutions for drug problems are now accorded the same rights as other patients. The law states that each drug addict has the right to a comprehensive, coordinated and individually adapted service provision. This means that regardless of the boundaries of responsibility between administrative levels, drug users and their dependants should no longer be wasteballs in the system. An overall increase has determined that the individual drug addict has the right to a common individual plan. The plan shall cover services under the Local Health Services Act, the Special Health Service Act, the Mental Health Act and the Social Services Act. The legal right to individual level for patients in need of long-term and coordinated services is an essential element of the drug reform. But it seems quite clear that the work on individual plans has been too short. Municipalities have an important role to play in the treatment of drug users, and it is therefore essential that regional health businesses have an understanding of the challenges and needs of municipalities. Such understanding is developed only through close cooperation in the treatment and follow-up of the individual addict. The individual needs of drug users shall be met, and healthcare businesses shall actively contribute and cooperate with the municipal social health service, inter alia. in the preparation and implementation of individual plans for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug users. But then one might ask: We know that individual plans work well in relation to LAR — drug users who are subject to a comprehensive methadone or Subutex treatment system. That's very good. However, we are sadly aware that time and again it fails in relation to other groups of drug addicts, namely those who are not caught up in an overall offer such as the LAR. Both media surveys and reports and enquiries have made it clear that the work on individual plans has been too short. The Minister of Health and Health has indicated the need for further intensification of efforts in this area. The regional health undertakings’ ordering documents follow this up by requiring regional health undertakings to ensure the fulfilment of the obligation to draw up an individual plan in cooperation with the municipality for patients in need of long-term and coordinated services. My question to the Council of State is this: how will he follow up this order and make sure that patients with the right to individual level actually get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1473	People with drug problems and/or mental disorders have in many ways been at the bottom of the health policy table. They have not received the service they should have received. I have therefore instructed regional health companies to give priority to these patient groups. The growth of drug treatment and mental health protection activities should be higher than the growth of somatic treatment. This is in addition to increasing appropriations under the Roadmap for mental health and drug treatment. However, a better service provision requires more than resources. Such an inter-pellant point also requires better coordination of services. Many drug addicts have a major need for help. The provision of services must be coordinated in order to achieve a satisfactory rehabilitation facility. Often it is that the larger and wider the problems each individual has, the greater the need for comprehensive services. The main objective of an individual plan is to ensure a coherent service provision. However, I am aware, as the interpellant had in mind, that the work on individual plans has not come far enough in any way. In this context, I have taken a number of measures. As the interpellant points out, the right to an individual plan was enshrined in the Social Services Act § 4-3a from 1 January 2004. In the past, this right has been governed only by health law. This means that all parts of the care services for drug users are now obliged to draw up such a plan for persons in need of long-term and coordinated services. Following this, the Ministry of Health and Welfare adopted on 23 December 2004 — it is a little Christmas Eve, President — a common regulation based on health legislation and the Social Services Act. This Regulation entered into force on 1 January of this year. A common regulation on individual plans will contribute to a greater whole in the provision of services to recipients receiving services from both social and health services. The new common rule is inter alia: sent to all health establishments in the country and to all municipalities in the country. In the context of the entry into force of the new regulation on an individual plan, the Social and Health Directorate shall revise the existing individual plan supervisor. The revised guide will include: contain good examples of how individual plans can be drawn up. The supervisor will also include experience from work on individual levels to date and will therefore be a good tool for all those involved in this work. I have hopes that the new regulation and the supervisor will give a boost to the work on individual plans. It will also contribute to an increased focus on the responsibilities of municipalities and health businesses to develop such plans. So a few words about the measures against health businesses. The Ministry has found it necessary to clarify the importance of individual levels in a separate letter to regional health businesses on 1 October last year. The letter asked regional health businesses to take action to ensure that patients on the basis of mental health protection and drug treatment receive the necessary follow-up. The absence of interaction between the different levels can have dramatic consequences for individual patients. A good exchange between specialist health services and municipal services is essential in order to achieve a good treatment outcome. We have also focused in particular on individual levels in the order document of regional health companies for 2005. Regional health enterprises are required in this document to ensure the development of an individual level in cooperation with the municipality for patients requiring long-term and coordinated services. There we very strongly stress that it is a management responsibility to make sure that that happens. The Ministry prepared a strategy note in 2004 in connection with the implementation of the drug reform. The importance of the preparation and implementation of individual plans for drug users is also highlighted in this document. In addition to what has been mentioned and as stated in the order document, I made specific demands on the business management of regional health companies in the business meeting we had in January 2005, in the following two areas, in order to follow up what I have just said. Firstly, internal control requirements. The administrations of regional health establishments shall ensure that an overall internal control system is in place for the activities to prevent, prevent and detect deviations, inter alia. in relation to legal and regulatory requirements. There has been a significant problem over a long period of time that there has been no overview of the internal situation in each enterprise group. The Management Boards shall ensure that the internal control of the regional health undertaking and health business group is adequately and systematically ensured, with the necessary management anchoring throughout the organisation. In addition to internal controls, we have now called for the establishment of internal audits in all regional health companies. The Boards of Regional Health Enterprises shall, before the end of the second tertiary, have established this internal audit within the regional health undertakings and within the health business group as part of the monitoring of the internal control by the Management Board. Internal audit is an important part of the supervisory function of the Management Board, which shall ensure that this is done independently of the administration. The Ministry has also made concrete demands on regional health business reporting in 2005 in relation to the follow-up of internal controls by the Board of Directors and deviating measures. The level of achievement in relation to the preparation of the individual plan will be included as part of this. I would also like to mention the role of the Social and Health Directorate in the work on individual plans. In the 2005 letter of award, the Directorate asked for a special focus on the use of individual plans across the country, both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health cooperates, among others: with the State Knowledge and Development Centre for General Rehabilitation and SINTEF Health in this specific work. So a little bit about the measures to the municipalities. Municipalities also have a very central role in the overall work of each patient. As a follow-up to the letter to the regional health establishments, the Ministry sent the corresponding letter on 26 November last year to all the municipalities of the country. The Ministry assumes that each municipality takes the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the law. The letter clarifies the importance of general contact between levels in order to ensure good continuity for the individual patient. Here again, it was emphasised that it is a management responsibility to follow up requirements in laws and regulations. Social services have a long tradition of working systematically with drug users. In the field of medically assisted rehabilitation, the use of individual plans has long been an integral part of the treatment. This is even reflected in the relevant guidelines in the area. Prior to the start of the treatment, a planned and committed cooperation shall be established and an individual plan describing a comprehensive rehabilitation plan shall be drawn up. The evaluation of medically assisted rehabilitation shows that the follow-up of LAR users is more structured than the follow-up of other users. This is attributed to the use of the Action Plan and the Task Force. A well-functioning LAR scheme can therefore be an example of follow-up also in other contexts where drug users need individual plans. I am pleased to show that interaction for real has now been put on the agenda. Last autumn, in October, the Bernt Committee delivered its NOU, the whole and plan of social and health services, coordination and interaction in municipal social and health services. The study proposes better harmonisation of municipal health and social legislation and the introduction of requirements for some minimum standards for both health and social services. The investigation is now being consulted. The time limit for the reply to the hearing shall be 1 April 2005. On 1 February, I was handed over to the Nou 2005:3 of the Wisløff Committee, which has been mentioned earlier, and which has the great name From piece to piece, to whole, a coherent healthcare service. The Committee has assessed economic, legal and organisational instruments that can stimulate better interaction between different actors and levels of healthcare. I have pointed out in my article several measures of a more general nature that will contribute to a better overall and coherent service. Of course, the further follow-up of the leftover investigations becomes important in this way. But with regard to the individual level in particular, I have clear expectations that the different levels and service providers will follow up their responsibilities on the basis of the existing legislation, the guidelines developed, and not least the innumerable meetings we have had with the relevant actors this autumn and winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1517	I am very pleased that this government, through the drug reform, has placed patient rights on drug users and the need for a comprehensive follow-up offer on the agenda. I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a comprehensive, clear and good response to my question about the challenges of following up the right to individual level. The reason why I raised the question of the individual level is that, as I said earlier here, there are several examples that practice so far has not worked according to the assumptions. Unfortunately, we experience too often that patients with major drug problems who take overdose are repeatedly sent out to the streets by healthcare companies again and again, without it being organised for cooperation with municipalities and the first-line health service for follow-up through an individual plan. Overdosage is often a cry for help, and the consequences for the individual drug addict and his or her family can be serious. In addition, there is a poor use of resources for society, as we see examples of whole families often ending up as patients in the healthcare system. The Minister of Health shows in his reply that several important steps have already been taken and that regional health businesses are now required to ensure the development of individual levels in cooperation with the municipality. Two important steps, as the Minister of Health mentioned here, will be internal control and internal audit. I think it's incredibly important to get in place in order to be able to keep up with development and in the future put your finger on what's not working. We are facing enormous challenges in the supply of people with complex diagnoses related to drug use and mental disorders. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Health, in his reply, assures that the efforts towards these groups will be given priority in the future and that he will follow developments in this area very closely. I want to ask a follow-up question to the Council of State. There are a number of voluntary organisations across the country who have a long and good experience in individual follow-up to drug users and who have very important competences in the use of follow-up programmes and networks in this work. How will the Minister of Health and Health ensure that the competences of voluntary organisations are actively used in the work of regional health enterprises and municipalities on individual plans in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1534	With regard to the main theme related to individual plans, I have to say that if the medicine implemented to the regional health companies was not to work, a medicine consisting of the implementation of internal control, internal audit and reporting – and I also feel it is quite natural to publish the results of the development of the individual RHFs and point out to the Health Inspectorate in their checks that this is done – I would probably be a bit of a bit of a bit of a doubt as to which medicine should then be prescribed. I have in the meetings I have had, without exception pointed out this as one of the most important three–four steps we can do in both psychiatry and drug care, namely that at least you can make an individual plan. Now we've started a pretty big job in the directorate to make an even better guide. If someone is not able to draw up such an individual plan after reading the instructions we have today, then I ask a lot of questions. Here we must have a completely different degree of accountability for those who will follow up the individual patient. Whether you're in psychiatry or in drug care, there are often some of the weakest patients we're talking about, in relation to the ability to claim the services that are relevant to the individual. In order to ensure the participation and competence of voluntary organisations, how we should use it in health enterprises and in the work of municipalities in relation to individual plans, it is primarily a public authority responsibility to ensure that these plans are developed and facilitated, and that the private institutions, of course, receive the training and information they need, and that the Health Authority has control over the implementation of this in these private institutions. But there is no doubt that these, often organizationally driven, private institutions, not least in the field of drug care, are a very central player and a very important addition to what we have in public. In fact, in some areas of the country, these private institutions constitute a significant part of the treatment provision. It's important to take care of. But I also think it is important that, in the dialogue with our responsible health services, we carry out the necessary exchange of experience and that a joint effort be made to achieve the requirements that come. There is no doubt that the competence and commitment we have in many of these voluntary organisations is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1545	The question raised in the interpellation is very important. It is very unfortunate that not all patients and drug users get the follow-up they should have, as a statutory system actually informs them. It is therefore good that the Minister of Health and Health so very clearly in his statement here signals a reinforced effort in this area, and that he applies his influence to those arenas where he has the opportunity to do so. I think that is necessary, even if the responsibility rests on others. The deficiencies in our health care system may be less now than before. However, although the drug addicts in need of treatment have recently received patient status, it is important that the drug reform itself succeeds. Among other reasons, one of the reasons for giving the state and health services a clearer responsibility for drug treatment was: increasing the quality of treatment, ensuring a more holistic and coherent chain of treatment, and also ensuring the economic basis for this treatment. No matter what problem the individual had to face, everyone has a connection to their own municipality and auxiliary equipment there. We often hear about failure of follow-up after treatment as a main problem. A statutory individual plan should just oblige all parties to cooperate with a clear follow-up, and it is quite clear that the auxiliary equipment in the municipality is a very important player here. Although this has been said before, I would like to make it very clear that the person to whom the plan relates, i.e. the substance abuser himself must participate in the preparation and follow-up of the plan in an obligatory manner. One of the reasons why it fails too often is that there are too bad commitments, to the extent that for all parties, but perhaps especially for the one that is the subject of the plan. Therefore, it is essential to feel a sense of ownership of all the measures that should be part of. Then I would like to challenge the minister, if he has time, to clarify who has the primary responsibility for actually developing an individual plan and putting it into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1558	I want to start by giving tribute to the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to focus, through this interpellation, on the status of work on an individual level, or IP as it is called, for drug addicts. For me, it is important to stress that IP is primarily a tool for cooperation across departments, both within the municipality and between levels of administration, or first and second line services, if you like. The basic idea of IP is that it should be at the best of the recipient and ensure that the recipient receives such treatment and not least follow-up he or she is entitled to do so. One of the most important things about IP for a drug addict is what will happen after treatment. This is when the municipality comes in with weight and is responsible. The recipient often needs outpatient treatment from the specialist health service, which must be provided in cooperation with municipal services. It can mean temporary housing with close follow-up, help to get out of a often hopeless debt situation and help to get into order with school, work or social security. Individual plans shall contain clear rules and plans for their implementation. Unfortunately, the situation is such, as the representative Røbekk Nørve referred to, that many municipalities do not have a good enough offer for follow-up. Then it can be difficult to see how IP should work. This point is further underlined by the fact that IP is to be evaluated at least once per intention. years after the recipient progresses in the process of a life free of drugs. This means that the need for support is constantly changing along the way. IP must simply be a living document where the interaction between the recipient and the helper is central. Then it is problematic that there are employees in the municipalities who may have up to 40 to 50 recipients, each of whom is to be followed individually. It updates the need to focus on empowerment and specialisation of staff, and the need for both inter-municipal and inter-territorial cooperation. I had the last weekend the honor of being one of the guests at the national meeting of the Landsförbundet Mot Stoffmisbruk in Tromsø. Here we heard articles from a former drug addict who could tell a success story about IP – a scheme in which both municipal employees, police, pastors and the boy's own mother, among others, were involved in the follow-up. It was incredibly strong to hear from a recipient in a municipality where the possibilities had been seized and really gained a fascination with the work on IP. It was not particularly costly either, although post-closure will always require considerable resources. But here it was a lot about how the work was organized, and there was also a lot of the point in the Minister of Health and Care Gabrielsen talking about in his post. And as I said, the important thing about this interpellation is that IP is lifted up and up, and that you stimulate the municipalities to find the right solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1567	I also want to pay tribute to the interpellant for putting this again on the agenda, because it is very important to look at the problems as a result of the failure to comply with individual level requirements. What makes the whole situation a little special is that today we are discussing a matter of why Storting’s previous decision is not being followed up – because it is actually a requirement for an individual plan to be drawn up. And it's going to be very special when, for example, Time and again, the Minister of Health and Health must contact the regional health businesses and ask: Where does the planning work take place? I actually thought it was such that when the Stortinget passed a law, the law was to be followed, that what is in the law is to be followed up properly. If you don't, we have a problem. It is obvious that in this case, when it comes to the preparation of individual levels, we have a very serious problem, both in relation to regional health businesses and in relation to the lack of ability and willingness of municipalities to follow this up properly. But then let's go a little bit further, until we get the individual plan in place, because that's when I really start to worry. What are the reasons why we should be able to follow up the individual measures that are needed to bring the drug user into a more normal situation, away from the abuse and get the whole apparatus going, so that we can get a job, a home and resume our own social network? I also find reason to ask questions as to why regional health businesses per year. Today, there is a complete lack of ability and willingness to put the drug user at the centre. Because out there it's actually like this. I will mention a simple example that I have heard about this week: Health Mid-Norway is included among others. non-agreements with drug withdrawal institutions if they are an AS. It's pretty special. An institution has been informed that since it is not a foundation, but an AS, a contract cannot be signed. It is also written that Health Mid-Norway is not interested in concluding new agreements with drug withdrawal agencies. This clearly shows that the complex problems that drug users face in this country are not taken seriously. I hope that the Minister of Health and Health will now take a look at the companies and ensure that they provide the best possible offer of weaning to those drug addicts who want it. Then it is important to have one thing in mind: a drug addict who is initially motivated for treatment cannot be put on hold for one, two, three or four months, because then the motivation is gone, and then the problems will stand in the queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1578	Several people in this room have underlined the importance of getting an individual plan. It's possible that you can be right that it's important. I have here an example of an individual plan for a drug addict. It's on eight sides. The problem with the eight sides is that there's nothing on any of them. Instead of being so concerned about having the right to a plan that definitely doesn't contain anything, we should use the time in this room to discuss the content, because that's what matters. The right to a document that does not give access to anything is a pointless right. This is the situation of drug addicts today. We don't have to move more than ten meters outside the doors of Stortinget until we meet drug addicts who have no offer of treatment. We meet people who, when they are going to be treated at a clinic today, suddenly encounter new excesses that they have to pay to get a treatment offer. Then we meet drug addicts who have been in line for months to get a treatment offer, but who do not. Then we meet drug addicts who have been to Denmark and come back for an after-care offer, but who don't get it. The discussion about an individual plan – now we’ve also learned that it’s IP, I haven’t heard it before – is a pointless debate if you don’t give that type of plans a content. That's why we should discuss it. How can we ensure that we avoid the unworthy situation that people with drug addiction are rejected by psychiatric wards because they are not sick enough and are not psychotic? How can we prevent people who really have a big mental problem from being rejected because they also have an alcohol problem? How can we at all ensure that the group that today falls outside in all possible areas gets a coherent chain that works for them? It is then possible that an individual plan may have something to do with ensuring its content and ensuring that it means the right to treatment, the right to a return offer that provides a job in the long term, the right to measures that provide a permanent dwelling, and the right to action that gives a decent life. But what the government is doing here is, in parallel with stressing the meaning of a plan, removing all the possibilities that could give it the offer. The municipalities are struggling, without exception, with a bad economy that is just hitting the group we are talking about here. We see how, under the direction of the various health care companies, light and light are sought to introduce excesses in services to this group as well. We were recently informed about this, including at the Folloklinik. Then the government cannot sung each other in the glory of its own excellence, with praiseworthy mentions of plans that have no content – eight pages without a single action!
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1590	For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we lift down low-priority health care groups. Drug abusers are one of these. Increased appropriations are important, but I agree with the interpellant that for each individual the most important thing is to get an offer that is appropriate. A drug addict often needs help from both social services and health services. It's very positive that we've got a common rule for these two services. Any patient who needs a long-term course of treatment should be offered an individual plan today. The purpose is inter alia: connecting service providers and establishments. The challenge is to make the interaction between administrative levels, professional services and professionals work. This tool has existed for a while, but it is only now that it is properly implemented. The point of an individual plan is to provide the patient with a comprehensive, coordinated and individualised service provision and, in particular, a good follow-up system, so that the drug user can have a better life. This is entirely in line with the view of the Christian People's Party. Although an individual plan is an offer for all patients with long-term treatment courses, it may be particularly useful in psychiatry and drug treatment. Then there is a paradox that it has proved very difficult to get a systematic work on individual levels right within these fields. When many stakeholders are to cooperate, the process of change is not always painless. Then it's an advantage that the user has an individual plan. It is good to have something concrete to deal with during the treatment. It'll be a kind of progress plan for the user. The Christian People's Party believes it may be useful to evaluate the arrangement at regular intervals, in cooperation with all the instances to which the user is linked. The regulation is designed as a right for the user and an obligation for those working in the field of health and social services. The work on individual plans has taken place for a while. Some municipalities and specialist health services have had a little trouble getting different professionals to see the whole picture. Health workers have been most concerned about focusing on their own professional background. Others have been successful – there are good examples, such as: Mr Hogsnes referred to. These should be disseminated in the new guide, for inspiration and as a good tool for all those involved in interaction between actors who want to streamline the treatment of users with health and life challenges across services. The starting point must always be the user and his or her individual needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1612	It's an important matter the interpellant here takes up. There has been a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty in this area since Rusreform 1 and 2. I must commend the Minister of Health and Care for a well prepared and detailed statement to the Stortinget. But I agree with Mr Ballo that it is not enough just to refer to dates, decisions and papers, it is a question of whether we have the realities behind this. The right to this document must mean the right to effective treatment, which in turn means complete action and follow-up to each individual. Medical treatment and rehabilitation, both in the somatic and psychiatric fields, shall be comprehensive, including training, including social education, housing and work, so that one can finally stand on his own feet. The individual level is good, and it probably works reasonably well in relation to most cases of medically assisted rehabilitation. I would like to mention another group that I have received many concerns about, namely the worn-out, chronic addicts who may need care and protection more than active medical treatment, those who have largely been in long-term institutions, and who, because of uncertainty and a blackmail in terms of economics and instruments, have been expelled from these institutions – I have mentioned this before in this room – and, as it turns out, do not manage in a self-contained home. They must have both care and protection. These seem to me to have fallen out to a far too much in this context. The question then is: Are resources good enough, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service? And if they're assigned in the right way, so that you take into account e.g. the category I mentioned? Interpellant took up non-governmental organisations and their place in this system. I also want to get into it a little bit, among other things. on the institutional services that we have been notified do not get started now, because a person is unable to find room for them in the community health service/specialist service. We had such a case in, among other things. Trondheim. Among the activities that have been put on the sideline, I would like to mention an organisation here. It is Kom and Dans, who have been very good, both in terms of prevention and in connection with the follow-up of those who have needed rehabilitation. Organisations have an important place if one believes that the volunteer should be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1625	I would like to thank the interpellant and take the opportunity to take a look at the issue that has been raised. If you look at society in a slightly longer historical perspective – 100 years ago – you can see that when the rich in this city passed by the poor and were to justify why the poor were poor, they used the sin as an argument. Today it is often that when we who are well go past people on the streets as we see it is bad, our moral argument becomes the rush. That's the explanation that someone's doing well and someone's doing badly. That's why it's especially important for us politicians to look at the background. The new thing about the challenge in a city where someone is doing well and someone has it very bad is not primarily in the structure. It's not the social structure that necessarily causes this. It is not that everyone who has a drug problem today has it because of poor parents, poor growth or little money. In fact, drug problems are found within all kinds of backgrounds, within all types of parents. They are also found with the good parents – with good advice – who have tried to do something but who, despite this background, get a bad life. This implies a new kind of challenge for us politicians, namely to be able to see the individuals behind this, to see that there are individual differences between the youth who was just going to try something, and the one who has a background that has actually led to one having ended up in a different system. That is why it is important to have an individual plan. It is therefore important to have injection rooms, which create dignity in this respect. It is therefore important to increase the focus on drug-based rehabilitation, which has been achieved by the Government. That's why it's important to be able to see the individuals. I believe that the biggest challenge in health care today is that the organisation of the individual patient is so little coordinated that you need to be quite resourceful to find out. In what two areas do we see that our health system has worked worse? Well, it's in the areas of psychiatry and drugs, where you don't have enough resources to figure out. That's why these two areas give the whole of our healthcare system a special challenge. Therefore, individual plans may be one way to meet that challenge. That's thinking whole thing. It's taking the patient into a dialogue. It is often also about those who have many around them who have tried – and who have had to give up. There are families who have long tried to make individual plans, but who have given up. Now the public should go in and try to stretch further where parents have given up, where their friends have given up – where everyone else has given up. That's why this is a special challenge for our healthcare system, and as I think it opens up a slightly bigger debate than the one that Ballo tried to travel here – a bigger debate about how we always treat individuals, including those who have little resources to take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1642	Once again, thank the Minister of Health for his clear answers in an important debate that will help to take care of those who have been at the bottom of the public health policy table every year. The Minister of Health and Health said in his reply that providing an individual plan is primarily the responsibility of the public authority. That's absolutely right. And so it should be. But I am pleased that the Council of State also confirmed that the competence of voluntary organisations is important and should be respected. The representative Ballo went to the pulpit with two buckets full of black paint and asked many questions. We who sat in the hall and listened carefully, heard that unfortunately he did not bring any new or some old answers. In this way I am left with a feeling that the Socialist Left Party again won the battle to give the most negative representation of the situation. The representative Hans Kristian Hogsnes pointed out that the most important thing about drug reform is to follow through on an individual level. He's absolutely right. As he said, we don't get IP – I think it was a great abbreviation – individual plan, to work, the drug reform has unfortunately failed. After the debate today and after what we have received from the Minister of Health, I feel absolutely confident that the Minister of Health will follow developments with falcons. – I don't think I should say anything more.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1655	The last words go to the Council of State with the falsification.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1658	The interpellant thought that the representative Ballo had a lot of black paint in his buckets. For every painter it is important to have a good mix, but not in the same bucket. At least I have to give the representative, Ballo, the fact that we have a health care system in which, at my discretion, we treat people very differently, based on what diagnosis they have. I don't think there's any doubt about that. After one day as a health minister, I made a hypothesis about who is sitting at the bottom of this table, and every day since then I have confirmed those assumptions. At that end of the table sits among others the two groups that have been mentioned here, those who have psychiatry and drug problems. These are the two areas that definitely have the worst offer. Now, it's not a government council's most important task to stand on the pulpit of the Storting and describe the misery, but it's to propose solutions to the misery. Whether it's wise or not by a councillor to say it, is something else, but I say that there are parts of this that are a shame, as I see it. The fact is that within e.g. This patient group we're talking about is several thousand people who don't have teeth in their mouths so they can eat a choppy dinner. We sit and look at them here, and we walk past them on the street every day. A good indication on the Norwegian health care system is the composition of the letter flow I get. I like to get eight or ten letters a day, and they're about the patients that I've said are sitting at the bottom of the table – not least the two groups that this is about. There's no doubt that if we're going to manage to lift these groups, there's not enough pious desires in general towards the Norwegian health care system. Then it has to be done pretty hard priorities over a very long time. That's my perfectly clear opinion. For some medical professionals are more popular than others, and it's in relation to those who sit at the top of the table. I do not think I have received a letter from someone who has complained about the treatment they have received in connection with heart problems. Those patients are completely at the other end of this table. That's why it's important that we focus on the end of the table that we've been on. In that way, I think that an individual plan is not a solution, but it is at least an identification of a need. I think definitely that the menu that we can put into that plan has to be extended and maybe attached to the right beyond what is the case today. In this way, I share the opinion of the representative Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-17.ana.ud141e1667	Then the interpellation debate, case no. 4, finished. Given that there are only 5 minutes left of the regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting, the president does not think it appropriate to start dealing with the next case now. So we cancel the morning meeting, and we set the evening meeting at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
