ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e29	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen is unanimously elected president of the Odelstinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e50	Some older Northmen have bid outside the country and come back in their older days. Some of them don't manage financially on their own. The so-called Kola Northmen were invited back to Norway several years ago. For both of these groups, it's asking for social assistance per. the date of the solution. The same applies to older immigrants who have come here in their time, either to seek work or because they have abstinence on a humanitarian basis. Ot. pp. No 14 for 2004-2005 apply to these groups. All of these individuals will receive a more conservative minimum income. A broad majority in the Committee, all parties with the exception of the Advance Party, align themselves with the Government's proposal. The progress piece rejects the entire proposition. The centre took the initiative of an additional social welfare scheme in the 1999 Equalisation Communication. The proposal received wide support in Stortinget. It's so high time that such a law comes into place. The government has evaluated different models. A proposal for a level of 60 pst. the minimum pension has been in the air. In the hearing draft, the government proposed 90 pst. of the minimum pension. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs shall be in favour of having listened to the hearing authorities and have now proposed a level in line with the minimum pension. The new supplementary benefit shall be tested against the income of the beneficiary himself and of the spouse or partner. The benefit shall be payable for a period of 12 months at a time and the application for such a benefit, in addition to the extended benefit, shall be submitted at a personal appearance at the social security office. The majority suggest that the scheme be evaluated two years after implementation. The majority agree with the Ministry that laws are limited to people over 67 years of age. However, there may be good reasons, as has been pointed out by several hearing bodies, to extend the arrangements to other groups, for example: are aged more than 60 years and are younger mentally or physically disabled. The majority then suggest that the Government should assess whether the same arrangement could also apply to other groups. Of course, a central point is the cost of the scheme. The number of persons is estimated to be between 2000 and 3000. The costs are estimated at approx. 150 million. kr. The government provides partial extracts from the municipalities to get the necessary funding in place. It is argued that there may be a reduction in social assistance of up to 135 million. kr. Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party rejects extractions from municipalities. This is a cost that municipalities should never have had. There is a cost to municipalities for several years has had reason to believe that they would be covered. I find a reason to remind you that the municipality of Oslo already raised these additional costs in 1998. The municipalities of Nord-Jären and other municipalities have also demonstrated their additional costs. As far as we know, it has never been compensated by the state for this kind of long-term social assistance. There are several government councils who have recognized that this should be a government arrangement. So the local authorities here are working on covering a function that social welfare has never been meant to have. So I'll finally ask the government to reconsider their vision, behave reasonably and cleanly and fully cover the 150 million. kr that this scheme is supposed to cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e78	Some things take an incredibly long time to be treated in Stortinget. The law on supplementary social benefits for persons with a short period of residence in Norway is such a case. Already when the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was the social minister, i.e. back in 1997, I raised a matter of a lady from Halden who had lived abroad in much of her life. She had followed her husband, who had worked in different countries. Now she was back in Norway as a pensioner, lonely, and the pension was just over NOK 2000 per year. month – not so much to live off and pay all the expenses with. Therefore, she must take the heavy road to the social office, not only once, but regularly, as social assistance law requires — yes, as long as she lives — in order to get a living. It was in a question in the Questionnaire, which many cases start with, that I addressed this matter. Of course, state councils responded evasively, as usual. However, the Minister of Social Affairs made the point: there was a ‘hole’ where there was reason to see a little more. It's taken time. Several governments have come and gone. The antialiasing message was received. It said something. The Right Party and the Advance Party continued to oppose it. Then came the message of poverty. Then it was just the Progress Party that was against it. Now the bill is here, and once again it's just the Progress Party that's against it. It is important to find that this actually applies to both immigrants and other Norwegians with a short residence. However, it is clear that many municipalities have refused to accept older asylum seekers who would not come to work, because the municipalities would have a high cost of the social aid budget. The Workers' Party supports the Government, largely, but at one point we are completely dissenting, namely that the municipalities should be taken into the framework grant corresponding to the scheme cost to the State. Here you can see the Workers' Party, SV and the Center parts together about the setting. Of course, if the proposal falls within the Stortinget, the inspiration and zeal of the municipalities, after receiving older asylum seekers who have been accommodated and who are to be settled in a municipality, will fall away, and the housing of the receptions will increase. But it pays the state, and the costs are probably even higher. Finally, I will send a greeting to the patient lady in Halden who can enjoy Christmas this year, and hopefully be a little more generous, for after New Year's it will be better times.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e95	Yes, it is true that Signe Eye says: This is no recent case. For more than ten years, municipalities have asked for an alternative social security scheme for old people who have lived in Norway for a short time. Municipalities housing refugees have long documented and argued that this has led to additional pressures on the social budget of municipalities. For many years the state has signaled the coming of a system. As well as the outreach message as the poverty message and the big city message have addressed the issue. In addition, references may be made to comments in the 2004 budget. Several governments in spite, now the matter is on the table, and it is positive that Odelstinget will today adopt a law on supplementary social benefits for persons with short residence in Norway. It is important that local authorities no longer bear individual costs for this group. Not least with regard to the settlement of refugees from state reception to the municipalities, the scheme has now functioned somewhat negatively. But I want to say that the personal relationships of the people involved are equally important. Afterwards, they do not stay out of the way of social clients, with the pressures it itself causes. The social assistance provided by local authorities is intended to be a temporary benefit and not a permanent benefit for living. This bill is therefore a wise adjustment of the foreign exchange rate. Refugees under the UN Conventions receive a full minimum pension even if they do not fulfil the conditions for residence. Persons from EEA countries are guaranteed good social security schemes. But in the case of immigrants from third world countries, social assistance has been used. This group of beneficiaries of social assistance is expected to double in 2020. In this way, municipalities are well served by the introduction of a social security benefit scheme. In the Right, we agree that the level of social benefits will be in line with the minimum pension in social security and that the scheme will be implemented from 1 January 2006. We also support the need-tested scheme in relation to other incomes and wealth, in addition to ordinary homes and homes. So we think it's right to set different conditions for the supplementary social security scheme. Both registration in the People's Register and residence permits are a natural requirement. You're supposed to live here. There should also be restrictions on living abroad. We also have rules relating to long-term residence in institutions, which will otherwise be in line with the benefits of popular security. We record from the hearing opinions that the proposed age limit of 67 years will be easy to manage. We support the Government's proposal, but believe it would be right to consider additional groups that fall outside. And the Right is in the majority of the committee that asks the Government to look at this. The right supports the proposal for funding by adjusting the framework transfers to municipalities. The need for social assistance is a criterion of the income system. There is therefore a natural regulation being made, in line with other changes previously made in the framework transfers. As the Labour Party was in government position, the 2001 budget contained a number of such issues, and I can quickly mention: changes for municipalities in self-payment using municipal child protection measures led to a redistribution between county and municipality budgets — as did an increase in the number of pupils in private secondary schools. Excerpts were made according to the total cost key of counties. And at the municipality level, the pharmacy law led to savings for the municipalities. This amount was deducted from the framework grant — as did increased self-payments at home and at home. It has been common for task changes to involve extractions. We think it is a principle that remains to be followed, although in the short term it does not alone add more money to the municipalities. In the long term, municipalities will clearly benefit from the scheme. A doubling of the group in 2020 would mean a much larger expenditure item for Kommune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e112	It is true, as has been said, that the Progress Party will vote against the entire setting. We simply think that it is directly unreasonable and almost provocative that the majority of this house overnight – even though they say they have been doing the process for 10 years, 15 years – provide people who have not contributed in relation to getting benefits, these kinds of benefits. I am convinced, and at these times the Committee is working on a major issue in addition to the Discrimination Act, that this is a decision that will work against its purpose, even if one here is to contribute in a way to the lifting of these so-called Kola Northmen. I record that most of the representatives have, for the time being, stressed this, and that is, of course, where you see the unfairness and want to put this in focus. The progress party has focused a lot on this, but has never received a hearing for it. However, the way to get an impact on this type of issue is to move immigrants with short residence in Norway. It is then easy for the Storting to adopt these types of arrangements. The truth is, and it also says in the proposition, that the majority of those we're talking about here are immigrants, of course. It is clear that the scheme for our minimum pensioners – with 20 years’ notice, 30 years’ notice or 35 years’ notice – has been curtailed this year. But here we find that when immigrants come to Norway, it's just to pinch and put in place a social security scheme without any curtailment and no redundancy. I think it's sad that it's the kind of thing that's going on for Norwegian citizens and Norwegian pensioners to get their rightful share of the wealth, that one really has to push immigrants who almost haven't done anything about getting rights, in front of them, to get their rights. I am convinced that a law of discrimination that both the parties to the government, the left and the socialists in this Chamber put so much pressure on us to achieve, through this decision, will have a counter-effect – a strongly counter-effect. Now we look into the matter after the Storting makes these kinds of priorities. I am genuinely concerned about what the outcome would be if the Government, together with the socialists in this Chamber, were to continue to exercise this strong discrimination — the preferential treatment of people who had to come to Norway. I am genuinely concerned that the government parties and the socialists do not see this challenge, that they do not see that these kinds of things and decisions can and will create ground for the opposite of what they have as intention, that is, to seek fellowship and harmony. I just want to repeat: the Advance Party is voting against – with a very good conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e123	SV will join the rapporteur’s articles. We support the law. We have the same view of extracts from the local economy. We think it's unreasonable, especially because some of the main point here should be that the state bears this kind of responsibility. This is first of all about persons legally residing in Norway. I think it's very important to be aware of everyone who participates in this debate. Secondly, this person is of such an age that it is not very reasonable to take a job and take care of himself. So then there's a practical question here: who's going to pay what needs to be paid for the living? It is with a little amazement I hear the argument of the Advance Party. A lot of people who have opted to become minimum pensioners seems terrible that someone who is at this age and who has a legal stay in Norway receives a safe social benefit, such a benefit from the state – not a popular benefit, but a social benefit with stronger rules around and more restrictions than a minimum pension. It's quite clear, in a lot of areas. It's a little comical to listen to, for a party that will destroy the popular fear in the sense that everyone is going to be the minimum pensioner, I don't think there's much to go with when it's a matter of getting, to say it like, gross discrimination. SV has always considered that the State should take responsibility for these costs. It does that in this case, except that it initially takes an extract from the local economy, which we disagree with. The system of popular security is such that even those who have not contributed in an economic sense have rights like ourselves. It is an incredibly important principle in our popular fear that those who, for some reason or another, are in such a situation that they have neither been able to pay for their work and support their seas nor have been able to pay taxes in some phase of their life, should also be assured of financial benefits in the event of disability or old age. It's a very important principle of solidarity, so saying that everyone gets what they paid back into this system, is actually a pretty rough list of the system of people's rights and principles in it. The second is that it's actually not a system where you pay in and get what you paid again, but that it's a type of system based on "pay as you go", i.e. you get an acquired right, but not depending on what you actually paid in. We are pleased that this arrangement will be put in place. We are sorry that the municipalities are initially going to pay the bill. We think that's unreasonable. But we believe that this will make matters clearer in the future, and then the vast majority of the committee has asked for an evaluation after two years. We think that's necessary, so that we can see that the system works as intended, and that people can largely deal with this performance, that it works as intended, as a security for them, and that the limitations contained in it are not unreasonable. We will see this from an evaluation, as well as whether there should possibly be some other groups that need to get a firmer social welfare system because they will in any case be eternal social welfare recipients – and there is no good system to rely on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e141	This is a matter that many municipalities have been waiting for a long time, and there have been many from Kommune-Noreg who have both turned to me and, I have heard, others about the financial inconspicuousness of many older people – or some older people, there are really not many – who do not have minimum pension rights. The fact that older people who have been allowed to live in Norway for a variety of reasons are to be social clients is not worth it. This does not apply only to older immigrants. Even the Nordics who have lived a large part of their lives abroad, without having worked out pension rights there or in other private ways, may be in a difficult situation. It actually applies to misioners, to whom I have spoken, to people who have worked their whole lives for others, who have been dampened in the world, but who, when they get older, do not have the rights that we have. It also applies to the Northmen of America, who have always thought that they were going back to Norway, but then it went on many years before it happened. I talked to a woman who traveled to the United States in 1948 last month. Now she's back in her home country, and her minimum pension was only NOK 2000 a month. Of course she can't live off it. I think it's good if she doesn't go to social. But most without pension rights are immigrants from the third world. Because one can abuse this, to the extent that one can abuse all welfare arrangements, it is good that the scheme is framed. You can't bring the scheme to the rest of the world, where the money could go much further. There's not so much money to allow here, but it's actually important that this scheme can't be included in the rest of the world. One only gets it at the age of 67. Of course, wealth is decisive, labour income is also important, even if it is lit after 67 years — someone who works for a long time — and capital income or pensions from domestic or foreign countries. This case shows that we live in a well-developed welfare society. The welfare state is not in a state of confusion. In fact, he's still being built out. Being a citizen of Norway, or having the right to live here, is and will be a happiness in life. These are unprocessed permissions. It actually has the Progress Party quite right in it. These are not civil rights either. It's well-being that one sheep because a cage lives here. That's how we want it. But one has to evaluate this. Of course, we have to avoid being exploited. The Christian People's Party believes that this is a system to take care of those who have worked out few dishes, but who live here, and who are going to have a worthy old age, like the rest of us. We will follow both the heart and the brain.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e152	The establishment of a new supplementary social security scheme will mean that the social security scheme will take over the responsibility of a group of persons who have so far been referred to economic social assistance. The group is very complex and ranges from Nordics with long stays abroad to persons who come to Norway after retirement. The common denominator is that they lack adequate ordinary service provision. I am pleased that the Committee broadly supports the Government's proposals. This is a group of older people living in Norway without the income security of older people in general in Norway. Now everything is at the ready to ensure a decent income insurance for the individual, and the responsibility of the municipalities for this group will be the same as for other older people. The benefit from the scheme will be paid after a strict income test. Exceptionally, the right to benefits will also be affected by the wealth of the beneficiary. Furthermore, access to social benefits abroad will be more limited than for pensions from the social security system. The scheme will therefore pose clear challenges for the social security system in terms of control. As part of the monitoring, it is proposed that a grant be granted for 12 months at a time and that a new application be made at a personal appearance at the social security office. I have noticed that the committee is skeptical of this arrangement. It is pointed out that it could be administratively resource-intensive. As I see it, this application procedure will replace other control measures, and will therefore be able to in effect work-saving. It is an important issue that is dealt with in Odelstinget today – important for those to whom it applies, but also for the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e165	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e173	Odelstinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e421	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has warned in the debate that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e434	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Progress Party to be opposed here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e448	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2005-03-15-lower.ana.ud1839e469	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
